Strange and Scary Things 




Pioneers used to entertain themselves by telling scary 
stories. At night they might gather in somebody's cabin, 
or around a fire, and see who could scare the others the 
most. 




Some girls and boys in my town do the same thing 
today. They get together at somebody's house, and they 
turn out the lights and eat popcorn, and scare one another 
half to death. 


Telling scary stories is something people have done 
for thousands of years, for most of us like being scared 
in that way. Since there isn't any danger, we think it 
is fun. 


There are a great many scary stories to tell. There are 
ghost stories. There are tales of witches, devils, bogey- 
men, zombies, and vampires. There are tales of monstrous 
creatures and of other dangers. There even are stories 
that make us laugh at all this scariness. 


Some of these tales are very old, and they are told 
around the world. And most have the same origins. They 
are based on things that people saw or heard or experi- 
enced — or thought they did. 


Many years ago a young prince became famous for a 
scary story he started to tell, but did not finish. His name 
was Mamillius, and he probably was nine or ten years 
old. William Shakespeare told about him in The Winter's 
Tale. 


It was on a dark winter's day that his mother, the 
queen, asked him for a story. 


"A sad tale's best for winter," he said. "I have one 
of sprites and goblins." 


"Do your best to frighten me with your sprites," she 
said. "You're powerful at it." 


'I shall tell it softly," he said. "Yond crickets shall 
not hear it." 





And he began, "There was a man dwelt by a church- 
yard." But that was as far as he got. For at that moment 
the king came in and arrested the queen and took her 
away. And soon after that, Mamillius died. No one knows 
how he would have finished his story. If you started 
as he did, what would you tell? 


Most scary stories are, of course, meant to be told. 
They are more scary that way. But how you tell them 
is important. 


As Mamillius knew, the best way is to speak softly, 
so that your listeners lean forward to catch your words, 
and to speak slowly, so that your voice sounds scary. 


And the best time to tell these stories is at night. In 
the dark and the gloom, it is easy for someone listening 
to imagine all sorts of strange and scary things. 






THE BIG TOE 






A boy was digging at the edge of the garden when he 
saw a big toe. He tried to pick it up, but it was stuck 
to something. So he gave it a good hard jerk, and it 
came off in his hand. Then he heard something groan 
and scamper away. 


The boy took the toe into the kitchen and showed it 
to his mother. "It looks nice and plump," she said. "I'll 
put it in the soup, and we'll have it for supper." 


That night his father carved the toe into three pieces. 




and they each had a piece. Then they did the dishes, 
and when it got dark they went to bed. 


The boy fell asleep almost at once. But in the middle 
of the night, a sound awakened him. It was something 
out in the street. It was a voice, and it was calling to 
him. 


"Where is my to-o-o-o-o-e?" it groaned. 


When the boy heard that, he got very scared. But he 
thought. It doesn't know where I am. It never will find 
me." 


Then he heard the voice once more. Only now it was 
closer. 


Where is my to-o-o-o-o-e?" it groaned. 


The boy pulled the blankets over his head and closed 
his eyes. "I'll go to sleep," he thought. "When I wake 
up it will be gone." 


But soon he heard the back door open, and again he 
heard the voice. 


"Where is my to-o-o-o-o-e?" it groaned. 


Then the boy heard footsteps move through the 
kitchen into the dining room, into the living room, into 
the front hall. Then slowly they climbed the stairs. 


Closer and closer they came. Soon they were in the 
upstairs hall. Now they were outside his door. 


"Where is my to-o-o-o-o-e?" the voice groaned. 


His door opened. Shaking with fear, he listened as 
the footsteps slowly moved through the dark toward 
his bed. Then they stopped. 


Where is my to-o-o-o-o-e?" the voice groaned. 





(At this point, pause. Then jump at the person next 
to you and shout:) 


" YOU'VE GOT IT!" 




"The Big Toe" also has another ending. 


When the boy hears the voice calling for its toe, he 
finds a strange-looking creature up inside the chimney. 
The boy is so frightened he can't move. He just stands 
there and stares at it. 


Finally he asks: "W-w-w-what you got such big eyes 
for?" 


And the creature answers: "To look you thro-o-o-ugh 
and thro-o-o-ugh!" 


"W-w-w-what you got such big claws for?" 


"To scra-a-a-tch up your gra-a-a-a-ve!" 


"W-w-w-what you got such a big mouth for?" 


"To swallow you who-o-o-le!" 


"W-w-w-what you got such sharp teeth for?" 


"TO CHOMP YOUR BONES!" 









• THE WALK • 




My uncle was walking down a lonely dirt road one day. 
He came upon a man who also was walking down that 
road. The man looked at my uncle, and my uncle looked 
at the man. The man was scared of my uncle, and my 
uncle was scared of that man. 


But they kept on walking, and it began to get dark. 
The man looked at my uncle, and my uncle looked at 
the man. The man was very scared of my uncle, and my 
uncle was very scared of that man. 


But they kept on walking, and they came to a big 
woods. It was getting darker. And the man looked at 
my uncle, and my uncle looked at the man. The man 
was really scared of my uncle, and my uncle was really 
scared of that man. 


But they kept on walking, and deep down into the 
woods they went. It was getting darker. And the man 
looked at my uncle, and my uncle looked at the man. 
The man was terrible scared of my uncle, and my uncle 
was terrible scared of — 






• "WHAT DO YOU COME FOR?" • 




There was an old woman who lived all by herself, and 
she was very lonely. Sitting in the kitchen one night, 
she said, “Oh, I wish I had some company.' 7 


No sooner had she spoken than down the chimney 
tumbled two feet from which the flesh had rotted. The 
old woman's eyes bulged with terror. 


Then two legs dropped to the hearth and attached 
themselves to the feet. 


Then a body tumbled down, then two arms, and a 
man's head. 


As the old woman watched, the parts came together 
into a great, gangling man. The man danced around and 
around the room. Faster and faster he went. Then he 
stopped, and he looked into her eyes. 


“What do you come for?" she asked in a small voice 
that shivered and shook. 


“What do I come for?" he said. “I come — for YOU!” 








• ME TIE DOUGH-TY WALKER! 

There was a haunted house where every night a bloody 
head fell down the chimney. At least that's what people 
said. So nobody would stay there overnight. 


Then a rich man offered two hundred dollars to who- 
ever would do it. And this boy said he would try if he 
could have his dog with him. So it was all settled. 


The very next night the boy went to the house with 
his dog. To make it more cheerful, he started a fire in 





the fireplace. Then he sat in front of the fire and waited, 
and his dog waited with him. 


For a while nothing happened. But a little after mid- 
night he heard someone singing softly and sadly off in 
the woods. The singing sounded something like this: 


"Me tie dough-ty walker!" 


"It's just somebody singing," the boy told himself, but 
he was frightened. 


Then his dog answered the song! Softly and sadly, it 
sang: 


"Lynchee kinchy colly molly dingo dingo!" 


The boy could not believe his ears. His dog had never 
uttered a word before. Then a few minutes later, he heard 
the singing again. Now it was closer and louder, but 
the words were the same: 


"Me tie dough-ty walker!" 


This time the boy tried to stop his dog from answering. 
He was afraid that whoever was singing would hear it 
and come after them. 


But his dog paid no attention, and again it sang: 


"Lynchee kinchy colly molly dingo dingo!" 


A half-hour later the boy heard the singing again. Now 
it was in the back yard, and the song was the same: 


"Me tie dough-ty walker!" 


Again the boy tried to keep his dog quiet. But the 
dog sang out louder than ever: 


"Lynchee kinchy colly molly dingo 
dingo!" 





Soon the boy heard the singing again. Now it was 
coming down the chimney: 


"Me tie dough-ty walker!" 


The dog sang right back: 


"Lynchee kinchy colly molly 
dingo dingo!" 


Suddenly a bloody head fell out of the chimney. It 
missed the fire and landed right next to the dog. The 
dog took one look and fell over — dead from fright. 


The head turned and stared at the boy. Slowly it 
opened its mouth, and — 






Some say this rhyme doesn't mean anything. Others are 
not so sure. 




There was a man who lived in Leeds; 
He filled his garden full of seeds. 


And when the seeds began to grow. 


It was like a garden filled with snow. 
But when the snow began to melt. 


It was like a ship without a belt. 


And when the ship began to sail. 


It was like a bird without a tail. 


And when the bird began to fly. 


It was like an eagle in the sky. 


And when the sky began to roar. 


It was like a lion at my door. 


(Now drop your voice.) 


And when the door began to crack. 


It was like a penknife in my back. 
And when my back began to bleed — 
(Turn out any lights.) 


I was dead, dead, dead indeed! 






• OLD WOMAN 
ALL SKIN AND BONE 




There was an old woman all skin and bone 
Who lived near the graveyard all alone. 


O-o o-o o-o! 


She thought she'd go to church one day 
To hear the parson preach and pray. 


O-o o-o o-o! 


And when she came to the church-house stile 
She thought she'd stop and rest awhile. 


O-o o-o o-o! 


When she came up to the door 


She thought she'd stop and rest some more. 


O-o o-o o-o! 


But when she turned and looked around 
She saw a corpse upon the ground. 


O-o o-o o-o! 


From its nose down to its chin 


The worms crawled out, and the worms crawled in. 


O-o o-o o-o! 


The woman to the preacher said, 


“Shall I look like that when I am dead?" 


O-o o-o o-o! 


The preacher to the woman said, 


“You'll look like that when you are dead!" 






He Heard Footsteps 
Coming Up the Cellar Stairs... 




There are ghosts in this chapter. One comes hack as a real person. 
Another takes revenge on her murderer. And there are other strange 
happenings. 














THING • 




Ted Martin and Sam Miller were good friends. They 
spent a lot of time together. On this particular night 
they were sitting on a fence near the post office talking 
about one thing and another. 


There was a field of turnips across the road. Suddenly 
they saw something crawl out of the field and stand 
up. It looked like a man, but in the dark it was hard 
to tell for sure. Then it was gone. 


But soon it appeared again. It walked halfway across 
the road, then it turned around and went back into the 
field. 


Then it came out a third time and started toward them. 
By now Ted and Sam were scared, and they started run- 
ning. But when they finally stopped, they decided they 






were being foolish. They weren't sure what had scared 
them. So they decided to go back and get a better look. 


Pretty soon they saw it, for it was coming to meet 
them. It was wearing black pants, a white shirt, and black 
suspenders. 


Sam said, "I'm going to try to touch it. Then we'll 
know if it's real." 


He walked up to it and peered into its face. It had 
bright penetrating eyes sunk deep in its head. It looked 
like a skeleton. 


Ted took one look and screamed, and again he and 
Sam ran, but this time the skeleton followed them. When 
they got to Ted's house, they stood in the doorway and 
watched it. It stayed out in the road for a while. Then 
it disappeared. 


A year later Ted got sick and died. Toward the end, 
Sam sat up with him every night. The night Ted died, 
Sam said he looked just like the skeleton. 








• COLD AS CLAY ■ 




A farmer had a daughter for whom he cared more than 
anything on earth. She fell in love with a farmhand 
named Jim, but the farmer did not think Jim was good 
enough for his daughter. To keep them apart, he sent 
her to live with her uncle on the other side of the county. 










Soon after she left, Jim got sick, and he wasted away 
and died. Everyone said he died of a broken heart. The 
farmer felt so guilty about Jim's death, he could not tell 
his daughter what had happened. She continued to think 
about Jim and the life they might have had together. 








One night many weeks later there was a knock on 
her uncle s door. When the girl opened the door, Jim 
was standing there. 


"Your father asked me to get you," he said. "I came 
on his best horse." 


"Is there anything wrong?" she asked. 


"I don't know," he said. 


She packed a few things, and they left. She rode behind 
him, clinging to his waist. Soon he complained of a head- 
ache. "It aches something terrible," he told her. 


She put her hand on his forehead. "Why, you are as 
cold as clay," she said. "I hope you are not ill," and 
she wrapped her handkerchief around his head. 


They traveled so swiftly that in a few hours they 
reached the farm. The girl quickly dismounted and 
knocked on the door. Her father was startled to see her. 


"Didn't you send for me?" she asked. 


"No, I didn't," he said. 


She turned to Jim, but he was gone and so was the 
horse. They went to the stable to look for them. The 
horse was there. It was covered with sweat and trembling 
with fear. But there was no sign of Jim. 


Terrified, her father told her the truth about Jim's 
death. Then quickly he went to see Jim's parents. They 
decided to open his grave. The corpse was in its coffin. 
But around its head they found the girl's handkerchief. 










• THE WHITE WOLF ■ 


The timber wolves around French Creek had gotten out 
of hand. There were so many wolves, the farmers could 
not stop them from killing their cattle and sheep. So 
the state put a bounty on them. It would pay a hunter 




ten dollars for every wolf pelt he turned in. 


A butcher in town named Bill Williams thought that 
was pretty good money. He stopped working as a butcher 
and started killing wolves. He was good at it. Every year 
he killed over five hundred of them. That came to more 
than five thousand dollars. It was quite a bit of money 
in those days. 


After four or five years. Bill had killed so many wolves, 
there were hardly any left in that area. So he retired, 
and he vowed never to harm another wolf because wolves 
had made him rich. 


Then one day a farmer reported that a white wolf 
had killed two of his sheep. He had shot at it and hit 
it, but the bullets didn't have any effect. Soon that wolf 
was seen all over the countryside, killing and running. 
But nobody could stop it. 


One night it came into Bill's yard and killed his pet 
cow. Bill forgot about his decision never to harm another 
wolf. He went into town the next morning and bought 
a young lamb for bait. He took it out into the hills and 
tied it to a tree. Then he backed off about fifty yards 
and sat down under another tree. With his gun in his 
lap, he waited. 


When Bill didn't come back, his friends started looking 
for him. Finally they found the lamb. It was still tied 
to a tree. It was hungry, but it was alive. Then they 
found Bill. He was still sitting against the other tree, 
but he was dead. His throat had been torn open. 


But there was no sign of a struggle. His gun hadn't 
been fired. And there were no tracks in the soil around 
him. As for the white wolf, it was never seen again. 





• THE HAUNTED HOUSE ■ 




One time a preacher went to see if he could put a haunt 
to rest at a house in his settlement. The house had been 
haunted for about ten years. Several people had tried 
to stay there all night, but they always would get scared 
out by the haunt. 


So this preacher took his Bible and went to the house — 
went on in, built himself a good fire, and lit a lamp. 
Sat there reading the Bible. Then just before midnight 
he heard something start up in the cellar — walking back 
and forth, back and forth. Then it sounded like somebody 
was trying to scream and got choked off. Then there 
was a lot of thrashing around and struggling, and finally 
everything got quiet. 


The old preacher took up his Bible again, but before 
he could start reading, he heard footsteps coming up 
the cellar stairs. He sat watching the door to the cellar, 
and the footsteps kept coming closer and closer. He saw 
the doorknob turn, and when the door began to open, 
he jumped up and hollered, "What do you want?" 


The door shut back easy-like, and there wasn't a sound. 
The preacher was trembling a little, but he finally opened 
the Bible and read awhile. Then he got up and laid the 
book on the chair and went to mending the fire. 


Then the haunt started walking again and — step! — 
step! — step! — up the cellar stairs. The old preacher sat 
watching the door, saw the doorknob turn and the door 
open. It looked like a young woman. He backed up and 
said, "Who are you? What do you want?" 






The haunt sort of swayed like she didn't know what 
to do — then she just faded out. The old preacher waited, 
waited, and when he didn't hear any more noises, he 
went over and shut the door. He was sweating and trem- 
bling all over, but he was a brave man and he thought 
he'd be able to see it through. So he turned his chair 
to where he could watch, and he sat down and waited. 


It wasn't long before he heard the haunt start up again, 
slowly — step! — step! — step! — step! — closer, and closer — 
step! — step! — and it was right at the door. 


The preacher stood up and held his Bible out before 
him. Then the knob slowly turned, and the door opened 
wide. This time the preacher spoke quiet-like. He said, 
"In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy 
Ghost — who are you and what do you want?" 


The haunt came right across the room, straight to him, 
and took hold of his coat. It was a young woman about 
twenty years old. Her hair was torn and tangled, and 
the flesh was dropping off her face so he could see the 
bones and part of her teeth. She had no eyeballs, but 
there was a sort of blue light way back in her eye sockets. 
And she had no nose to her face. 


Then she started talking. It sounded like her voice was 
coming and going with the wind blowing it. She told 
how her lover had killed her for her money and buried 
her in the cellar. She said if the preacher would dig up 
her bones and bury her properly, she could rest. 


Then she told him to take the end joint of the little 
finger from her left hand, and to lay it in the collection 





plate at the next church meeting — and he'd find out who 
had murdered her. 


And she said, "If you come back here once more after 
that — you'll hear my voice at midnight, and I'll tell you 
where my money is hid, and you can give it to the 
church." 


The haunt sobbed like she was tired, and she sunk 
down toward the floor and was gone. The preacher found 
her bones and buried them in the graveyard. 


The next Sunday the preacher put the finger bone in 
the collection plate, and when a certain man happened 
to touch it, it stuck to his hand. The man jumped up 
and rubbed and scraped and tore at that bone, trying 
to get it off. Then he went to screaming, like he was 
going crazy. Well, he confessed to the murder, and they 
took him on to jail. 


After the man was hung, the preacher went back to 
that house one midnight, and the haunt's voice told him 
to dig under the hearthrock. He did, and he found a 
big sack of money. And where that haunt had held on 
to his coat, the print of those bony fingers was burned 
right into the cloth. It never did come out.



• THE GUESTS • 




A young man and his wife were on a trip to visit his 
mother. Usually they arrived in time for supper. But they 
had gotten a late start, and now it was getting dark. So 
they decided to look for a place to stay overnight and 
go on in the morning. 


Just off the road, they saw a small house in the woods. 
"Maybe they rent rooms," the wife said. So they stopped 
to ask. 








An elderly man and woman came to the door. They 
didn't rent rooms, they said. But they would be glad 
to have them stay overnight as their guests. They had 
plenty of room, and they would enjoy the company. 


The old woman made coffee and brought out some 
cake, and the four of them talked for a while. Then the 
young couple were taken to their room. They again ex- 
plained that they wanted to pay for this, but the old 
man said he would not accept any money. 


The young couple got up early the next morning before 
their hosts had awakened. On a table near the front door, 
they left an envelope with some money in it for the 
room. Then they went on to the next town. 


They stopped in a restaurant and had breakfast. When 
they told the owner where they had stayed, he was 
shocked. 


"That can't be," he said. "That house burned to the 
ground, and the man and the woman who lived there 
died in the fire." 


The young couple could not believe it. So they went 
back to the house. Only now there was no house. All 
they found was a burned-out shell. 


They stood staring at the ruins trying to understand 
what had happened. Then the woman screamed. In the 
rubble was a badly burned table, like the one they had 
seen by the front door. On the table was the envelope 
they had left that morning. 






They Eat Eyes, 
They Eat  Nose 




There are scary stories about all kinds of things. The ones told 
here are about a grave, a witch, a man who liked to swim, a hunting 
trip, and a market basket. There also is one about worms eating a 
corpse — your corpse. 















• THE HEARSE SONG • 




Don't you ever laugh as the hearse goes by. 
For you may be the next to die. 


They wrap you up in a big white sheet 
From your head down to your feet. 


They put you in a big black box 
And cover you up with dirt and rocks. 


All goes well for about a week. 


Then your coffin begins to leak. 


The worms crawl in, the worms crawl out, 
The worms play pinochle on your snout. 
They eat your eyes, they eat your nose. 


They eat the jelly between your toes. 


A big green worm with rolling eyes 
Crawls in your stomach and out your eyes. 
Your stomach turns a slimy green. 


And pus pours out like whipping cream. 


You spread it on a slice of bread. 


And that's what you eat when you are dead. 







• THE GIRL WHO 
STOOD ON A GRAVE ■ 




Some boys and girls were at a party one night. There 
was a graveyard down the street, and they were talking 
about how scary it was. 


"Don't ever stand on a grave after dark," one of the 
boys said. "The person inside will grab you. He'll pull 
you under." 


"That's not true," one of the girls said. "It's just a 
superstition." 


"I'll give you a dollar if you stand on a grave," said 
the boy. 


"A grave doesn't scare me," said the girl. "I'll do it 
right now." 


The boy handed her his knife. "Stick this knife in 
one of the graves," he said. "Then we'll know you were 
there." 


The graveyard was filled with shadows and was as 
quiet as death. "There is nothing to be scared of," the 
girl told herself, but she was scared anyway. 


She picked out a grave and stood on it. Then quickly 
she bent over and plunged the knife into the soil, and 
she started to leave. But she couldn't get away. Something 
was holding her back! She tried a second time to leave, 
but she couldn't move. She was filled with terror. 








“Something has got me!" she screamed, and she fell 
to the ground. 


When she didn't come back, the others went to look 
for her. They found her body sprawled across the grave. 
Without realizing it, she had plunged the knife through 
her skirt and had pinned it to the ground. It was only 
the knife that held her. She had died of fright. 





• A NEW HORSE • 




Two farmhands shared a room. One slept at the back 
of the room. The other slept near the door. After a while, 
the one who slept near the door began to feel very tired 
early in the day. His friend asked what was wrong. 


“An awful thing happens every night/' he said. “A 
witch turns me into a horse and rides me all over the 
countryside." 


“I'll sleep in your bed tonight," his friend said. “We'll 
see what happens to me." 


About midnight an old woman who lived nearby came 
into the room. She mumbled some strange words over 
the farmhand, and he found he couldn't move. Then 
she slipped a bridle on him, and he turned into a horse. 


The next thing he knew, she was riding him across 
the fields at breakneck speed, beating him to make him 
go even faster. Soon they came to a house where a party 
was going on. There was a lot of music and dancing. 
They were having a big time inside. She hitched him 
to a fence and went in. 


While she was gone, the farmhand rubbed against the 
fence until the bridle came off, and he turned back into 
a human being. 


Then he went into the house and found the witch. 
He spoke those strange words over her, and with the 
bridle he turned her into a horse. Then he rode her to 
a blacksmith and had her fitted with horseshoes. After 
that, he rode her to the farm where she lived. 






"I have a pretty good filly here,” he told her husband, 
“but I need a stronger horse. Would you like to trade?" 


The old man looked her over, and he said he would 
do it. So they picked out another horse, and the farmhand 
rode away. 


Her husband led his new horse to the barn. He took 
off the bridle and went to hang it up. But when he came 
back, the new horse was gone. Instead, there stood his 
wife with horseshoes nailed to her hands and feet. 




• ALLIGATORS ■ 




A young woman in town married a man from another 
part of the country. He was a nice fellow, and they got 
along pretty well together. There was only one problem. 
Every night he'd go swimming in the river. Sometimes 
he would be gone all night long, and she would complain 
about how lonely she was. 


This couple had two young sons. As soon as the boys 
could walk, their father began to teach them how to 
swim. And when they got to be old enough, he took 
them swimming in the river at night. Often they would 
stay there all night long, and the young woman would 
stay home all by herself. 


After a while, she began to act in a strange way — at 
least, that is what the neighbors said. She told them that 
her husband was turning into an alligator, and that he 
was trying to turn the boys into alligators. 


Everybody told her there was nothing wrong with a 
man taking his sons swimming. That was a natural thing 
to do. And when it came to alligators, there just weren't 
any nearby. Everybody knew that. 


Early one morning the young woman came running 
into town from the direction of the river. She was soaking 
wet. She said a big alligator and two little alligators had 
pulled her in and had tried to get her to eat a raw fish. 
They were her husband and her sons, she said, and they 
wanted her to live with them. But she had gotten away. 


Her doctor decided she had lost her mind, and he had 






her put in the hospital for a while. After that nobody 
saw her husband and boys again. They just disappeared. 


But now and then a fisherman would tell about seeing 
alligators in the river at night. Usually it was one big 
alligator and two small ones. But people said they were 
just making it up. Everybody knows there aren't any 
alligators around here. 




• ROOM FOR ONE MORE • 




A man named Joseph Blackwell came to Philadelphia 
on a business trip. He stayed with friends in the big 
house they owned outside the city. That night they had 
a good time visiting. But when Blackwell went to bed, 
he tossed and turned and couldn't sleep. 


Sometime during the night he heard a car turn into 
the driveway. He went to the window to see who was 
arriving at such a late hour. In the moonlight, he saw 
a long, black hearse filled with people. 


The driver of the hearse looked up at him. When Black- 
well saw his queer, hideous face, he shuddered. The 
driver called to him, “There is room for one more." Then 
he waited for a minute or two, and he drove off. 


In the morning Blackwell told his friends what had 
happened. “You were dreaming," they said. 


"I must have been," he said, “but it didn't seem like 
a dream." 


After breakfast he went into Philadelphia. He spent 
the day high above the city in one of the new office 
buildings there. 


Late in the afternoon he was waiting for an elevator 
to take him back down to the street. But when it arrived, 
it was very crowded. One of the passengers looked out 
and called to him. “There is room for one more," he 
said. It was the driver of the hearse. 


“No, thanks," said Blackwell. "I'll get the next one." 


The doors closed, and the elevator started down. There 





was shrieking and screaming, then the sound of a crash. 
The elevator had fallen to the bottom of the shaft. Every- 
one aboard was killed. 






• THE WENDIGO • 


A wealthy man wanted to go hunting in a part of north- 
ern Canada where few people had ever hunted. He trav- 
eled to a trading post and tried to find a guide to take 
him. But no one would do it. It was too dangerous, they 
said. 


Finally, he found an Indian who needed money badly, 
and he agreed to take him. The Indian's name was 
DeFago. 


They made camp in the snow near a large frozen lake. 
For three days they hunted, but they had nothing to 
show for it. The third night a windstorm came up. They 
lay in their tent listening to the wind howling and the 
trees whipping back and forth. 


To see the storm better, the hunter opened the tent 
flap. What he saw startled him. There wasn't a breath 
of air, stirring, and the trees were standing perfectly still. 
Yet he could hear the wind howling. And the more he 
listened, the more it sounded as if it were calling DeFago's 
name. 


"Da-faaaaaaaaay-go!" it called. ''Da-faaaaaaaaay-go!'' 


"I must be losing my mind," the hunter thought. 







But DeFago had gotten out of his sleeping bag. He 
was huddled in a corner of the tent, his head buried in 
his arms. 


"What's this all about?" the hunter asked. 


"It's nothing," DeFago said. 


But the wind continued to call to him. And DeFago 
became more tense and more restless. 


"Da-Faaaaaaaaay-go!" it called. "Da-faaaaaaaaay-go!" 


Suddenly, he jumped to his feet, and he began to run 
from the tent. But the hunter grabbed him and wrestled 
him to the ground. 


"You can't leave me out here," the hunter shouted. 


Then the wind called again, and DeFago broke loose 
and ran into the darkness. The hunter could hear him 
screaming as he went. Again and again he cried, "Oh, 
my fiery feet, my burning feet of fire . . ." Then his 
voice faded away, and the wind died down. 


At daybreak, the hunter followed DeFago's tracks in 
the snow. They went through the woods, down toward 
the lake, then out onto the ice. 


But soon he noticed something strange. The steps 
DeFago had taken got longer and longer. They were so 
long no human being could have taken them. It was as 
if something had helped him to hurry away. 


The hunter followed the tracks out to the middle of 
the lake, but there they disappeared. At first, he thought 
that DeFago had fallen through the ice, but there wasn't 
any hole. Then he thought that something had pulled 
him off the ice into the sky. But that made no sense. 


As he stood wondering what had happened, the wind 








I 




picked up again. Soon it was howling as it had the night 
before. Then he heard DeFago's voice. It was coming 
from up above, and again he heard DeFago screaming, 
• . My fiery feet, my burning feet . . ." But there 
was nothing to be seen. 


Now the hunter wanted to leave that place as fast as 
he could. He went back to camp and packed. Then he 
left some food for DeFago, and he started out. Weeks 
later he reached civilization. 


The following year he went back to hunt in that area 
again. He went to the same trading post to look for a 
guide. The people there could not explain what had hap- 
pened to DeFago that night. But they had not seen him 
since then. 


“Maybe it was the Wendigo," one of them said, and 
he laughed. “It's supposed to come with the wind. It 
drags you along at great speed until your feet are burned 
away, and more of you than that. Then it carries you 
into the sky, and it drops you. It's just a crazy story, 
but that's what some of the Indians say.'' 


A few days later the hunter was at the trading post 
again. An Indian came in and sat by the fire. He had a 
blanket wrapped around him, and he wore his hat so 
that you couldn't see his face. The hunter thought there 
was something familiar about him. 


He walked over and he asked, “Are you DeFago?" 


The Indian didn't answer. 


“Do you know anything about him?" 


No answer. 


He began to wonder if something was wrong, if the 








man needed help. But he couldn't see his face. 


"Are you all right?" he asked. 


No answer. 


To get a look at him, he lifted the Indian's hat. Then 
he screamed. There was nothing under the hat but a 
pile of ashes. 








THE DEAD MAN'S 
BRAINS 






This scary story is a scary game that people play at Hal- 
lowe'en. But it can be played whenever the spirit moves 
you. 


The players sit in a circle in a darkened room and 
listen to a storyteller describe the rotting remains of a 
corpse. Each part is passed around for them to feel. 


In one version, a player is out if he or she screams 
or gasps with fright. In another version, everybody stays 
to the end, no matter how scared they get. 


Here is the story: 


Once in this town there lived a man named Brown. 
It was years ago, on this night, that he was murdered 
out of spite. 


We have here his remains. 


First, let's feel his brains. (A wet, squishy tomato) 


Now here are his eyes, still frozen with surprise. (Two 
peeled grapes) 


This is his nose. (A chicken bone) 


Here is his ear. (A dried apricot) 


And here is his hand, rotting flesh and bone. (A cloth 
or rubber glove filled with mud or ice) 


But his hair still grows. (A handful of corn silk or 
wet fur or yarn) 


And his heart still beats, now and then. (A piece of 
raw liver) 


And his blood still flows. Dip your fingers in it. It's 
nice and warm. (A bowl of catsup thinned with warm 
water) 


That's all there is, except for these worms. They are 
the ones that ate the rest of him. (A handful of wet, 
cooked spaghetti noodles) 








• "MAY I CARRY 
YOUR BASKET?" • 


Sam Lewis spent the evening playing chess at his friend's 
house. It was about midnight when they finished their 
game, and he started home. Outside it was icy cold and 
as quiet as the grave. 


As he came around a turn in the road, he was surprised 
to see a woman walking ahead of him. She was carrying 
a basket covered with a white cloth. When he caught 
up to her, he looked to see who it was. But she was so 
bundled up against the cold, it was hard to see her face. 


"Good evening," Sam said. "What brings you out so 
late?" 


But she didn't answer. 


Then he said, "May I carry your basket?" 


She handed it to him. From under the cloth, a small 
voice said, "That's very nice of you," and that was fol- 
lowed by wild laughter. 


Sam was so startled that he dropped the basket — and 
out rolled a woman's head. He looked at the head, and 
he stared at the woman. "It's her head!" he cried. And 
he started to run, and the woman and her head began 
to chase him. 


Soon the head caught up to him. It bounded into the 
air and sunk its teeth into his left leg. Sam screamed 
with pain and ran faster. 


But the woman and her head stayed right behind. Soon 
the head leaped into the air again and bit into his other 
leg. Then they were gone. 





















Donald and Sarah went to the movies. Then they went 
for a ride in Donald's car. They parked up on a hill at 
the edge of town. From there they could see the lights 
up and down the valley. 


Donald turned on the radio and found some music. 
But an announcer broke in with a news bulletin. A 
murderer had escaped from the state prison. He was 
armed with a knife and was headed south on foot. His 
left hand was missing. In its place, he wore a hook. 


“Let's roll up the windows and lock the doors/' said 
Sarah. 


“That's a good idea/' said Donald. 


“That prison isn't too far away," said Sarah. “Maybe 
we really should go home. 7 ' 


“But it's only ten o'clock/' said Donald. 


“I don't care what time it is," she said. “I want to 
go home." 


“Look, Sarah," said Donald, “he's not going to climb 
all the way up here. Why would he do that? Even if 
he did, all the doors are locked. How could he get in?" 


“Donald, he could take that hook and break through 
a window and open a door," she said. “I'm scared. I 
want to go home." 


Donald was annoyed. “Girls always are afraid of some- 
thing," he said. 


As he started the car, Sarah thought she heard some- 
one, or something, scratching at her door. 


“Did you hear that?" she asked as they roared away. 
“It sounded like somebody was trying to get in." 








"Oh, sure," said Donald. 


Soon they got to her house. 


"Would you like to come in and have some cocoa?" 
she asked. 


"No," he said, "I've got to go home." 


He went around to the other side of the car to let 
her out. Hanging on the door handle was a hook. 






















• THE WHITE SATIN 
EVENING GOWN • 




A young man invited a young woman to a formal dance. 
But she was very poor, and she could not afford to buy 
the evening gown she needed for such an occasion. 


"Maybe you can rent a dress," her mother said. So 
she went to a pawnshop not far from where she lived. 
There she found a white satin evening gown in her size. 
She looked lovely in it, and she was able to rent it for 
very little. 


When she arrived at the dance with her friend, she 
was so attractive, everyone wanted to meet her. She 
danced again and again and was having a wonderful time. 
But then she began to feel dizzy and faint, and she asked 
her friend to take her home. "I think I have danced too 
much," she told him. 


When she got home, she lay down on her bed. The 
next morning her mother found that her daughter had 
died. The doctor did not understand what had caused 
her death. So he had the coroner perform an autopsy. 


The coroner found that she had been poisoned by em- 
balming fluid. It had stopped her blood from flowing. 
There were traces of the fluid on her dress. He decided 
it had entered her skin when she perspired while she 
was dancing. 


The pawnbroker said he bought the dress from an un- 
dertaker's helper. It had been used in a funeral for another 
young woman, and the helper had stolen it just before 
she was buried. 










The girl driving the old blue sedan was a senior at the 
high school. She lived on a farm about eight miles away 
and used the car to drive back and forth. 


She had driven into town that night to see a basketball 
game. Now she was on her way home. As she pulled 
away from the school, she noticed a red pick-up truck 
follow her out of the parking lot. A few minutes later 
the truck was still behind her. 


"I guess we're going in the same direction,” she 
thought. 


She began to watch the truck in her mirror. When 
she changed her speed, the driver of the truck changed 
his speed. When she passed a car, so did he. 




• HIGH BEAMS • 






Then he turned on his high beams, flooding her car 
with light. He left them on for almost a minute. "He 
probably wants to pass me," she thought. But she was 
becoming uneasy. 


Usually she drove home over a back road. Not too 
many people went that way. But when she turned onto 
that road, so did the truck. 


"I've got to get away from him," she thought, and 
she began to drive faster. Then he turned his high beams 
on again. After a minute, he turned them off. Then he 
turned them on again and off again. 


She drove even faster, but the truck driver stayed right 
behind her. Then he turned his high beams on again. 
Once more her car was ablaze with light. "What is he 
doing?" she wondered. "What does he want?" Then he 
turned them off again. But a minute later he had them 
on again, and he left them on. 


At last she pulled into her driveway, and the truck 
pulled in right behind her. She jumped from the car and 
ran to the house. "Call the police!" she screamed at her 
father. Out in the driveway she could see the driver of 
the truck. He had a gun in his hand. 


When the police arrived, they started to arrest him, 
but he pointed to the girl's car. "You don't want me," 
he said. "You want him." 


Crouched behind the driver's seat, there was a man 
with a knife. 


As the driver of the truck explained it, the man slipped 
into the girl's car just before she left the school. He saw 





it happen, but there was no way he could stop it. He 
thought about getting the police, but he was afraid to 
leave her. So he followed her car. 


Each time the man in the back seat reached up to over- 
power her, the driver of the truck turned on his high 
beams. Then the man dropped down, afraid that someone 
might see him. 







It was nine o'clock in the evening. Everybody was sitting 
on the couch in front of the TV. There were Richard, 
Brian, Jenny, and Doreen, the babysitter. 


The telephone rang. 




• THE BABYSITTER • 





“Maybe it's your mother," said Doreen. She picked 
up the phone. Before she could say a word, a man laughed 
hysterically and hung up. 


“Who was it?" asked Richard. 


“Some nut," said Doreen. “What did I miss?" 


At nine-thirty the telephone rang again. Doreen an- 
swered it. It was the man who had called before. “I'll 
be there soon," he said, and he laughed and hung up. 


“Who was it?" the children asked. 


“Some crazy person," she said. 


About ten o'clock the telephone rang again. Jenny got 
to it first. 


“Hello," she said. 


It was the same man. “One more hour," he said, and 
he laughed and hung up. 


“He said, 'One more hour.' What did he mean?" asked 
Jenny. 


“Don't worry," said Doreen. “It's somebody fooling 
around." 


“I'm scared," said Jenny. 


About ten-thirty the telephone rang once more. When 
Doreen picked it up, the man said, “Pretty soon now," 
and he laughed. 


" Why are you doing this?" Doreen screamed, and he 
hung up. 


“Was it that guy again?" asked Brian. 


“Yes," said Doreen. "I'm going to call the operator 
and complain." 


The operator told her to call back if it happened again. 





and she would try to trace the call. 


At eleven o'clock the telephone rang again. Doreen 
answered it. "Very soon now/' the man said, and he 
laughed and hung up. 


Doreen called the operator. Almost at once she called 
back. "That person is calling from a telephone upstairs," 
she said. "You'd better leave. I'll get the police." 


Just then a door upstairs opened. A man they had 
never seen before started down the stairs toward them. 
As they ran from the house, he was smiling in a very 
strange way. A few minutes later, the police found him 
there and arrested him. 









A widow lived alone on the top floor of an apartment 
house. One morning her telephone rang. 


“Hello/' she said. 


“This is the viper," a man said. “I'm coming up." 


“Somebody is fooling around," she thought, and hung 
up. 


A half-hour later the telephone rang again. It was the 
same man. 


“It's the viper," he said. "I'll be up soon." 


The widow didn't know what to think, but she was 
getting frightened. 


Once more the telephone rang. Again it was the viper. 


"I'm coming up now," he said. 


She quickly called the police. They said they would 
be right over. When the doorbell rang, she sighed with 
relief. "They are here!" she thought. 


But when she opened the door, there stood a little 
old man with a bucket and a cloth. "I am the viper," 
he said. "I vish to vash and vipe the vindows." 





• THE ATTIC • 




A man named Rupert lived with his dog in a house deep 
in the woods. Rupert was a hunter and a trapper. The 
dog was a big German shepherd named Sam. Rupert 
had raised Sam from a pup. 


Almost every morning Rupert went hunting, and Sam 
stayed behind and guarded the house. One morning, as 
Rupert was checking his traps, he got the feeling that 
something was wrong at home. 


He hurried back as fast as he could, but when he got 
there he found that Sam was missing. He searched the 
house and the woods nearby, but Sam was nowhere to 
be seen. He called and he called, but the dog did not 
answer. For days Rupert looked for Sam, but he could 
find no trace of him. 


Finally he gave up and went back to his work. But 
one morning he heard something moving in the attic. 
He picked up his gun. Then he thought, "I'd better be 
quiet about this." 


So he took off his boots. And in his bare feet he began 
to climb the attic stairs. He slowly took one step — then 
another — then another, until at last he reached the attic 
door. 


He stood outside listening, but he didn't hear a thing. 
Then he opened the door, and — 
"AAAAAAAAAAAH!" 


(At this point, the storyteller stops, as if he has finished. 
Then usually somebody will ask, "Why did Rupert 
scream?" 


The storyteller replies, "You'd scream too if you 
stepped on a nail in your bare feet.") 





• THE SLITHERY-DEE ■ 




The slithery-dee. 


He came out of the sea; 






He ate all the others. 
But he didn't eat me. 






The slithery-dee, 


He came out of the sea; 






He ate all the others. 
But he didn't eat — 
SL-U-R-P . . . 








HO"W THAT HEAD MAW DANCED ! 




• AARON KELLY'S BONES ■ 




Aaron Kelly was dead. They bought him a coffin and 
had a funeral and buried him. 


But that night he got out of his coffin, and he came 
home. His family was sitting around the fire when he 
walked in. 


He sat down next to his widow, and he said, "What's 
going on? You all act like somebody died. Who's dead?" 


His widow said, "You are." 


"I don't feel dead," he said. "I feel fine." 


"You don't look fine," his widow said. "You look dead. 
You'd better get back to the grave where you belong." 


"I'm not going back to the grave until I feel dead," 
he said. 


Since Aaron wouldn't go back, his widow couldn't col- 
lect his life insurance. Without that, she couldn't pay 
for the coffin. And the undertaker said he would take 
it back. 


Aaron didn't care. He just sat by the fire rocking in 






a chair and warming his hands and feet. But his joints 
were dry and his back was stiff, and every time he moved, 
he creaked and cracked. 


One night the best fiddler in town came to court the 
widow. Since Aaron was dead, the fiddler wanted to 
marry her. The two of them sat on one side of the fire, 
and Aaron sat on the other side, creaking and cracking. 


"How long do we have to put up with this dead 
corpse?" the widow asked. 


"Something must be done," the fiddler said. 


"This isn't very jolly," Aaron said. "Let's dance!" 


The fiddler got out his fiddle and began to play. Aaron 
stretched himself, shook himself, got up, took a step or 
two, and began to dance. 


With his old bones rattling, and his yellow teeth snap- 
ping, and his bald head wagging, and his arms flip-flop- 
ping — around and around he went. 


With his long legs clicking, and his kneebones knock- 
ing, he skipped and pranced around the room. How that 
dead man danced! But pretty soon a bone worked loose 
and fell to the floor. 


"Look at that!" said the fiddler. 


"Play faster!" said the widow. 


The fiddler played faster. 


Crickety-crack, down and back, the dead man went 
hopping, and his dry bones kept dropping — this way, 
that way, the pieces just kept popping. 


"Play, man! Play!" cried the widow. 


The fiddler fiddled, and dead Aaron danced. Then 
Aaron fell apart, collapsed into a pile of bones — all except 








his bald headbone that grinned at the fiddler, cracked 
its teeth — and kept dancing. 


"Look at that!" groaned the fiddler. 


"Play louder!" cried the widow. 


"Ho, ho!" said the headbone. "Ain't we having fun!" 


The fiddler couldn't stand it. "Widow," he said. "I'm 
going home," and he never came back. 


The family gathered up Aaron's bones and put them 
back in the coffin. They mixed them up so he couldn't 
fit them together. After that, Aaron stayed in his grave. 


But his widow never did get married again. Aaron had 
seen to that. 








• WAIT TILL MARTIN COMES ■ 


An old man was out for a walk. When a storm came 
up, he looked for a place to take shelter. Soon he came 
to an old house. He ran up on the porch and knocked 
on the door, but nobody answered. 


By now rain was pouring down, thunder was booming, 
and lightning was flashing. So he tried the door. When 
he found it was unlocked, he went inside. 


Except for a pile of wooden boxes, the house was 
empty. He broke up some of the boxes and made a fire 
with them. Then he sat down in front of the fire and 
dried himself. It was so warm and cozy that he fell asleep. 


When he woke up a black cat was sitting near the 
fire. It stared at him for a while. Then it purred. "That's 
a nice cat," he thought, and he dozed off again. 









When he opened his eyes, there was a second cat in 
the room. But this one was as big as a wolf. It looked 
at him very closely, and it asked, "Shall we do it now?" 
"No," said the other cat. "Let's wait till Martin comes." 




"I must be dreaming," thought the old man. He closed 
his eyes again. Then he took another look. But now there 
was a third cat in the room, and this one was as big as 
a tiger. It looked the old man over, and it asked, "Shall 
we do it now?" 


"No," said the others. "Let's wait till Martin comes." 


The old man jumped up, jumped out the window and 
started running. "When Martin comes, you tell him I 
couldn't wait," he called. 








A businessman arrived at a hotel late one night and asked 
for a room. The room clerk told him the hotel was all 
filled up. "There is only one empty room," he said. "But 
we don't rent that one because it is haunted." 


"I'll take it," said the businessman. "I don't believe 
in ghosts." 


The man went up to the room. He unpacked his things, 
and he went to bed. As soon as he did, a ghost came 
out of the closet. Its fingers were bleeding, and it was 




• THE GHOST WITH 
THE BLOODY FINGERS • 








moaning, “Bloody fingers! Bloody fingers!" When the 
man saw the ghost, he grabbed his things and ran. 


The next night a woman arrived very late. Again, all 
the rooms were taken except the haunted room. 


"I'll sleep there," she said. "I'm not afraid of ghosts." 


As soon as she got into bed, the ghost came out of 
the closet. Its fingers still were bleeding. It still was moan- 
ing, "Bloody fingers! Bloody fingers!" And the woman 
took one look and ran. 


A week later another guest arrived very late. He also 
took the haunted room. 


After he unpacked, he got out his guitar and he began 
to play. Soon the ghost appeared. As before, its fingers 
were bleeding, and it was moaning, "Bloody fingers! 
Bloody fingers!" 


The man paid no attention. He just kept strumming 
his guitar. But the ghost kept moaning, and its fingers 
kept bleeding. 


Finally, the guitar player looked up. "Cool it, man!" 
he said. "Get yourself a Band-Aid." 







“If you got your pause right, she'll fetch a dear little yelp 
and spring right out of her shoes. . . 


There are three approaches to telling these jump stories. 
Two are found in Chapter 1. In the third approach, the ghost 
returns to search for what has been stolen. Feigning innocence, 
the grave robber asks what has become of various parts of 
the ghost's body. To each question, the ghost replies, “All 
withered and wasted away." When the robber mentions the 
part of the body that was stolen, the ghost shrieks, " You 've 
got it!" See Botkin, American, pp. 502-503; Burrison; Roberts, 
Old Greasybeard, pp. 33-36; Stimson, JAF 58:126. 


Ghosts (pp. 21-34): In almost every civilization, there has 
been a belief that the dead return. They are said to come 
back for various reasons. Their lives were ended before their 


allotted time." They did not receive a proper burial. They 
had important business to finish or a responsibility to meet. 
They wished to punish somebody or to take revenge. Or they 
wanted to comfort or advise someone, or obtain forgiveness. 


It is said that some return as human beings. In fact, they 
may look just as they did when they were alive, and people 
they meet may not realize they are ghosts. 


One of the best known of these “living ghosts" is the ghostly 
or vanishing hitchhiker. It usually is late at night that a motor- 
ist encounters her. She is standing on a street corner or at 
the side of a road, and she asks to be taken home. 


She sits in the back seat of the car. But when the driver 
finds the address he has been given, he discovers that she 
has vanished. When he informs her family of this, he learns 
that she died on that night several years before at the spot 
where he picked her up. 


There are two stories about living ghosts in Chapter 2: “The 
Guests" and "Cold as Clay." 


Some persons who die are said to return as animals, particu- 




• 92 • 




larly as dogs. Other ghosts may have a spectral quality. Or 
they may appear as a ball of fire or as a moving light. Or 
they may make their presence known through sounds they 
make or actions they take, such as slamming a door, rattling 
a key in a lock, or moving furniture. 


The ghosts of animals also have been reported, as have 
the ghosts of objects such as guns, boots, and rifles, and trains 
and cars associated with death. 


Ghosts of human beings do many things a human does. 
They eat, drink, ride on trains and buses, play the piano, 
and go fishing. They also laugh, cry, shout, whisper, and make 
all sorts of noises. 


When it has completed what it set out to do, a ghost is 
likely to return to its grave. But at times this may require 
the help of a person, such as a minister, who may be experi- 
enced in “laying” ghosts, or putting them to rest. 


If you wish to see or hear a ghost, these are some recom- 
mended approaches: Look back over your left shoulder. Look 
through either one of a mule's ears. Look in a mirror with 
another person. Arrange six pure white dinner plates around 
a table, then go to a cemetery at noon and call the name of 
someone you once knew who is buried there. 


If you encounter a ghost, it is advised that you speak to 
it. If you do so, you may be able to help it finish whatever 
it is doing and return to its grave. Some say it is most effective 
if you address a ghost this way: “In the name of God [or in 
the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost], what 
do you want?" They also say that holding a Bible will protect 
you against a revengeful ghost and demonstrate your sincerity. 


However, most ghosts are not regarded as dangerous. As 
the folklorist Maria Leach pointed out, “Usually a ghost is 
some poor harmless soul . . . looking for someone with 
enough understanding and kindness to speak to it and do it 




• 93 • 




some little favor.” See Beardsley and Hankie, CFQ 1:303-36; 
CFQ 2:3-25; Creighton, pp. i-xi; Hole, pp. 1-12; Gardner, p. 
85; Leach, Dictionary, "Revenant,” pp. 933-34; Leach Thins 
pp. 9-11. *' 


" The ?" (PP- 23-24): This tale describes a forerunner, 


or a forewarning of death. The warning is a skeletonlike figure 
that appears, then chases the principal characters. The skeleton 
actually is a "wraith,” an apparition that depicts a living person 
as he or she will look at death. But the most commonly re- 
ported forerunners are heard, not seen. They are sounds like 
a knock on the door or the striking of a clock. See Creighton 
pp. 1-7, 69-70. 


The Haunted Ho ™" (PP- 29-32): The tale of a person who 
is brave enough to spend a night in a haunted house, and 
who often is rewarded for his bravery, is told again and again 
around the world. There are many versions of this story, but 
the theme never changes. In this book there are four disparate 
variants of this tale: "Me Tie Dough-ty Walker!" "The 
Haunted House,” "Wait till Martin Comes,” and "The Ghost 
with the Bloody Fingers." The tale is classified as Type 326 
(the youth who wanted to know what fear was). See Ives, 
A/ff 4:61-67; Roberts, Old Greasybeard, pp. 72-74, 187; Roberts, 
South, pp. 35-38, 217-18. 


"The Hearse Song" (p. 39): Although many adults are familiar 
with this song, it is best known in the elementary schools 
But during World War I, it was a war song that was sung 


by servicemen from America and England. One version went 
this way: 


"Did you ever think as the hearse rolls by 
That some of these days you must surely die? 


They'll take you away in a big black hack; 


They'll take you away but they won't bring you back. 








. . And your eyes drop out and your teeth fall in 


And the worms crawl over your mouth and chin; 


And the worms crawl out and the worms crawl in 


And your limbs drop off limb by limb." 


The words have changed quite a bit since then. Worms 
now play pinochle on your snout. There is jelly between your 
toes. And pus, like whipping cream, pours out of your stom- 
ach. 


With children as the audience, it is a more gruesome song, 
but it is not as grim. One scholar associates the change of 
words with a change of function. During World War I, the 
song helped servicemen deal with the fear they felt. These 
days it helps children confirm the reality of death, yet through 
satire and humor deny its reality for them. 


The song is part of an old poetic tradition. During the Mid- 
dle Ages many of the poems written in European countries 
dealt with death and decay. Here is a verse of this type from 
a twelfth-century poem, which has been translated from the 
Middle English: 


"A vicious worm lives in my backbone; 


My eyes are dazed and very dim; 


My guts rot, my hair is green. 


My teeth grin very grimly." 




