As he passed over the shallow line of buildings Marnsworth saw several faces turned up toward the skiff. They were local landmen and for a brief moment he could see them clearly enough to note the wet hair plastered against their faces -- he looked quickly away. All Servicemen shared this instinctive aversion to landmen, if only because they were living proof that the Plan was not always infallible. Genetic prediction and selection were still infant sciences -- but time would improve the techniques of control so that deviations from the goal would become fewer and ultimately disappear, and the  IF Empire would be populated by a truly space-bred society. In the meantime the Administration maintained a tolerant attitude toward its outcasts and sometimes even supported them in their absurd little enterprises. The unwanted worlds had become an ideal dumping place for social misfits. The settlement disappeared behind him. The clouds and the rain closed in. The skiff gradually sought altitude so that it would be prepared for the mountain range that began some distance ahead. II a blunt heart, inclined southeast across the equator. At the southern narrower end were two smaller islands grouped a few miles apart about thirty miles offshore, inhospitable rocks unworthy even of the numbers doled out to their larger brothers by the original cartographers of Hydria. The island was heavily timbered and bore a crooked back underneath the lush, wet forests. This serrated ridge crossed the island from east to west and was the closest thing to a mountain range that the fresh young world had ever known. It made a long, slow climb for the small surface craft. But Marnsworth was in no particular hurry now that the journey had finally been instigated. He had spent most of his life on board some sort of spacecraft, studying interminable viewscreens and printouts and had managed to achieve a most sought-after function of all Servicemen -- he could almost switch himself off for long periods of time and allay the boredom of travel. And he did so now. He relaxed and waited, for this was the measure of his trade. More out of idleness than from any genuine curiosity, he activated the external sensors of the skiff. The whispered sounds of the world below drifted into the cabin. But the forest did not chatter incessantly like some forests he had known; nor did it scream or whimper. No predator moved through the unseen undergrowth. Here dominion had been divided between birds and insects and an occasional herbivore and that explained why the ecology of the island had always moved at such an infinitesimal rate -- time had barely touched this great world of water. He drowsed. Perhaps he should have felt nervous and excited at the prospect of tracking down Gerard Childers but emotions that could overpower his logical mind had been bred from his strain several generations ago. He almost slept until the skiff broke through the clouds and challenged the timberline. A bare sky gaped momentarily before him and a golden sun burned bright and naked into his face. He looked away. The land that swept back from the narrow ridge of mountains reminded him of the great game reserves of Africa. The broad veldtlike stretches were a striking contrast to the rain-drenched landscape he had been traveling over. The skiff soared easily over the flimsy backbone of the island and plunged straight down into a dense mist. The wound in the sky healed over and the clouds closed in. He relaxed again in his seat and checked his watch against the tripmeter on the control panel. Ninety-seven minutes and one hundred and eleven miles away from the settlement. The long climb had slowed down the skiff but now that the mountains had been passed it was downhill all the way to Childers' retreat. He had rehearsed all sorts of dialogues with himself but now that he was close to his quarry he found that he could cast serious doubts on them all. What would he say? What could he say? At the moment he could think of nothing that wouldn't sound offensive and presumptuous. Perhaps -- and this was what he wished -- perhaps they would both blunder their way through the initial confrontation and then, over a pleasant drink or two, some of the friendship they had shared might begin to flow between them again. He missed that more than anything else. Space had become withdrawn and lonely since Childers' had deserted the Service. There had been a time when the universe had been their oyster. Whatever had possessed Childers to turn his back to it in such a perfunctory manner? mist and rain disappeared. The skiff plunged into a wide valley. Gone were the rain forests and the sparse veldts, to be replaced by sweeping grasslands. A river broke free from the distant forest and played tag under the speeding craft. The land began to rise steeply on either side and finally pushed it, roaring and foaming whitely, through a narrow gorge and out into another, narrower valley. The skiff shot quickly through this natural pass and, once it had entered the valley beyond, began to describe a wide gliding arc that broke for the first time the singleminded purpose of its flight. A persistent beeping began on the control panel. Mamsworth tensed. A human habitation lay somewhere ahead. Childers' retreat -- or somebody else's? Was the map a fake? He had thought of radioing ahead to announce his arrival but he wasn't sure that Childers would appreciate a call. There was no point in putting his old friend unnecessarily on edge. Cultivated fields passed by unIF derneath. He leaned forward, the better to observe the new landscape. Human hands had molded this land to some purpose. Neat plantations of some sort of bush spread down the river's edge. This was no fetid swamp -- Childers had chosen well. Perhaps his madness was not quite as intense as Marnsworth had imagined -- this landscape had been designed with great care and affection. The skiff accelerated briefly to grab an extra few feet of altitude to fly over a wide belt of trees. It dropped abruptly into an enormous clearing. A small white house, festooned with colorful creepers, was set almost in the very center of this smooth area. It was U-shaped, its front aspect facing southwest so that it took in the curving elbow of the river, the dim mountains in the distance -- hidden now by tumbling rain clouds -- and Marnsworth's descending surface craft. The control panel beeped three times and was still. The skiff hovered expectantly, waiting for Marnsworth to resume manual control and descend. But a cold nervousness had suddenly gripped him. It made him fumble at the controls with fingers that had suddenly become inexpert. He wondered if the common audacity of his visit had been ill-planned. What sort of a reception could he expect from a man who was already three years a stranger? Well, he would soon find out. No sense turning back now that he had come this far. He sent the skiff gliding cautiously down. It set down on the grass and he cut the motors and sat for a few breathless moments while they idled away into silence. There was such an unnatural calm about the valley that he was reluctant to disfigure the silence with any abrupt movement. There was no sign of activity from the house, no indication that his arrival had been noted. Either Childers did not possess even a rudimentary sensor or he was deaf -- or disinterested. Marnsworth slipped out of his seatbelt and swung back the canopy. He jumped lightly to the ground. His suit lacked an amplifier, but the light gravity of Hydria made movement effortless even for his meager muscles. He felt the wet grass give under his weight. The outside temperature was high -- so was the humidity -- but his suit filtered out these unpleasant environmental things. He flicked on his sensors and allowed the moist and quiet sounds of Island One to make an impression. same spot several minutes later when the front door of the white house swung open. He saw a figure hesitating behind the deep shadow. Then it stepped forward into the sunlight. Marnsworth gave a start. At first he wasn't sure that this actually was Gerard Childers but as the man moved toward him with bold, unfrightened steps, he realized with a sinking heart that this -- this creature -- was indeed his old friend but scarcely recognizable, with the upper half of his body bared to the weather and with a heavy growth of beard disfiguring his face. He wore only a pair of dun shorts and his bare feet crushed the wet grass. The sensors in Marnsworth's suit were sensitive. They picked up the words the other man was mumbling. "Damian -- good God, what brings you here?" The outward appearance of his friend might have been transfigured by life under such alien conditions but at least the voice was familiar. Marnsworth stepped forward eagerly, reached out and Childers gripped his plastic hand and pumped it vigorously. "Hello, Gerard." He felt shy and foolish, as though he didn't really belong here, so far from his ship. "I came out to see what you've been doing with yourself." Childers smile held an uncomfortable edge. "I hope you haven't come to try and impress me back into the Service or anything like that?" MarnswoTth shook his head. "No. It's just that -- well, the ship's laid up for a few days at the settlement. I thought I'd take advantage of the break to come and look you up, find out what you've been doing these past few years." Childers seemed to relax a little. "Always knew that rustbucket would let you down one day." "Oh, it's not the Queen" Marnsworth explained. "The Barain. A new ship. This is only her third trip out. Her main drive's been giving us hell ever since she was commissioned -- " Childers placed a brawny, suntanned arm around Marnsworth's plastic shoulders and guided him toward the house. "Well, it isn't every day we get a visiting spaceman -- " The house was cool inside but Marnsworth could detect no threshold whirr of conditioning, so he did not unzip his parka. Childers eyed him quizzically. "Aren't you going to take that damned thing off?" Without waiting for an answer he moved across the room and slid back a panel in the wall to reveal an array of bottles and glasses. Marnsworth began to feel welcome but a residue of his curious embarrassment remained. He gestured awkwardly with his smooth hands. "I hope you realize that you've had a damned sight longer to get used to this air than I have." Childers looked up from the dark drink he was pouring. IF "Oh, yes. I'd forgotten that. Does that mean you'd turn your nose up at a local beverage?" "Hardly likely." "Good." Marnsworth took a deep breath and unzipped his parka. He shivered as the humid air struck his face and his hand shook a little when it reached for the drink. The beverage was raw and unfamiliar and it fought its way down his throat like a living animate But once it had arrived in his belly he found he could experience an agreeable warmth spreading through his body -- intoxicants could vary in taste but their effect never varied from one world to another. He found the stuffiness in the air most disagreeable but at this stage he felt much too polite to create any difficulties. Childers motioned him into a chair and sat down beside him. "Don't often have people up from the settlement," he said. "At least, not Service people." Marnsworth found his chair uncomfortable. It had been hewn from some natural material and was quite hard beneath him. But he made no comment and avoided looking directly at Childers. He still felt residual horror at the changes in his friend. Something other than the fierce u.v. had burned Childers' face into hard, coarse lines and bleached his hair with wide bands of gray. Both men were in their middle forties but in contrast to his host Marnsworth had the bland, untroubled and smooth face of an adolescent. He sat behind his suit and it nursed him and cared for him, in much the same manner as his ship looked after him while they moved between one world and another, one year and the next. He was slim and fragile and unaccustomed to the hardships of living on the land. His environment was space and his strength could be found a hundred thousandfold in any of the amplifiers he was called upon to use. Was it possible that Childers had been unable to maintain his rejuvenants since he had left the Service? Was that why he looked so old after only three short years? M arnsworth, coughed discreetly, suggesting that the liquor had troubled his throat. "You seem to have settled in rather well." One had to be sociable, otherwise an embarrassed silence would epgulf them. Childers managed a wry grimace. "Well, the first few months were the worst. After that, well, everything became a little easier." "I see." But no, he did not really see. "The -- acclimatization?" "Something like that. You like the wine?" Marnsworth said that he did -- with reservations -- and accepted another. The house was large by the standards he was accustomed to. Plenty of wide, full-length windows to let in the coppery sunlight and if the furniture seemed sparse and crude by some standards, it was at least functional. It was the excess of free space that he found most disconcerting. On board ship and at home -- in fact anywhere on Earth, for that matter -- living space was at a premium. Marnsworth had been tailored to fit a cramped environment -- and to fit graciously, without asking awkward questions. Childers was staring down at his drink. Without looking up he said, "I suppose you'd like to know why I left?" Marnsworth did not answer but let him continue. "Well, it was just something I had to do, that's all. Then and there -- at that moment. Without any temporizing. But I'm sorry if you've been through any trouble." No, no trouble , Marnsworth thought. Only pain. "But you see, there wasn't time to -- to think about things like that. About the Service. About command and all those other meaningless things. I just couldn't stand being locked up inside that great tin can any longer. I had to get out." "And so you threw up your work, your career, your pension," Marnsworth said. "And for what, Gerard, for what?" He gestured to take in their surroundings. "For this?" Childers didn't answer. And his face had not yet lifted from contemplating an empty glass. Marnsworth felt failure like a great weight lodged in his lungs. "All I know, Gerard, is that you've changed -- changed much since I saw you last. And have you done it all for this?" Childers raised his head slowly andthere was an honesty in his eyes that had not been there before. "You haven't changed much at all," he said and then looked quickly away, as though embarrased by what he saw. "As you've probably guessed, I haven't been taking my shots since I left the Service -- and there's a rather frightening change in the first six months or so. But after that things tend to even out and you get used to your new appearance. You put on weight. If you're working, then you start buildings muscles. The sun tans you -- your body sweats. A lot of things happen. But I guess it's in the face that a man shows it most." Suddenly furious, Marnsworth jumped to his feet. "I can understand anybody wanting out," he cried, "but why in God's name did you throw away your youth?" Childers looked puzzled. "But did I do that, Damian? Did I really? Has it ever occurred to you just how costly those treatments IF are when you haven't access to Service wages? Not everyone back home can afford them either -- or perhaps you've conveniently forgotten that? Spacemen tend to forget everything that is not absolutely necessary to their profession. And I found that I could do without my shots -- as I could do without most of the things that Earth had given me. Once you have discarded one myth you can discard them all." Marnsworth said nothing and Childers continued. "Did yoir know that rejuvenation is our greatest lie? Oh, we keep ourselves young on the surface, on the skin where it shows -- at least those of us who can afford to do so -- but it's only a sickly veneer. The flesh may stay young but our minds aren't fooled. They're much too clever to be tricked by our smart little drugs. We age our mind through experience, regardless of the physical rejuvenation that continually remakes us -- but what, do you suppose, will be the end of all this? Will our minds get surfeited with accumulated inertia and finally stop from sheer exhaustion? I suppose it would be interesting to find out -- but I no longer wish for that sort of knowledge. I have -- other things." M arnsworth was breathing heavily in the humid atmosphere. His eyes were bright. "Some day," he said, "some day they will find a way to -- " "To rejuvenate the mind? How awful. But I suppose they will do it if they've set their minds to it. Man has made a habit of accomplishment. But really -- one doesn't need their clever chemicals. Rejuvenation of a tired mind is a simple process for those who are prepared to look. I found it here. Others look elsewhere." # Marnsworth realized that he was as far from Gerard Childers as he had been back at the settlement. Was there no way of bridging this enormous gulf? "Gerard," he began, his voice soft and patient, "do you remember how we used to talk in the old days, back at school?" "About how big the universe was and how mankind would chart its secrets and what an adventure it would be -- " "To be part of it--" "And wouldn't it be grand?" "Then you haven't forgotten?" "No, of course not. But that was all so long ago, Damian, and we were such fools." "But your training -- all those years -- " "And for what? A few years out of my life -- not worth crying over. Oh, I won't deny that I was once as starry-eyed as any young cadet -- " "You were more than that. You were one of the foremost physicists of your time -- and the best damned drivesman I ever knew. And you left it all -- ran away like some crazy kid. And only for this!" A shadow passed across Childers' face. He became very serious. "Listen, Damian. I will tell you something. Something very important to me -- and to everybody. When I had finished all those wonderful years of schooling, of breaking God down into little pieces so that I could measure Him and analyze Him and wondering what to do with what I found -- after I had accumulated all this useless knowledge, do you know where I found myself? That's right -- staring at gauges and meters and tapping out commands to machines more clever than myself, nursing spaceships through hyper-space and watching little colored lights winking on and off. And that was all, Damian -- only that. Ten years of my life studying so that I would wind up acting as caretaker to a machine." "But such work demands that sort of study," Marnsworth protested. "Surely you don't expect -- " "I expect nothing -- not any more. Only never to waste my life in such a useless fashion. I want to feel the pressure of a world beneath my feet; I want fresh air in my lungs and not the canned stuff we're too used to accepting as the real thing. I don't want to have to drag my environment around with me to every God-forsaken corner of the universe. Damn it all, we've become a race of galactic sculptors running around the cosmos putting Earth's face on every habitable world we find -- can't you see that's blasphemous?" Ill were locked in a nexus of consternation; he could not speak. Impatient words had piled up into an unmanageable lump in his throat and his lips twitched in an agitation to free them. His whole body was shaking inside the protective suit. The fierce light faded suddenly from Childers' eyes. He looked past Marnsworth and his face softened. The spaceman followed the direction of his gaze and was surprised to find a young woman standing in the doorway. Childers stood up. "Rachel, this is Damian Marnsworth -- Captain Marnsworth. My old chief. Damian -- my wife." Her quiet entry helped to break the terrible stasis that had gripped the spaceman. He struggled awkwardly to his feet and dipped his head sharply in a gentleman's acknowledgment. "What a pleasant surprise, Mrs. Childers," he said. "I had no idea -- " He had assumed that Childers IF lived alone in his retreat -- nobody had mentioned the woman. She was extraordinarily attractive even to a spaceman's eyes -- but she was regarding him with a cold grace he found disquieting. She wore a simple orange shift and her dark body -- darker even than her husband's -- moved visibly underneath the material as she crossed the room. Probably quite a bit of African and Eurasian somewhere along the line, he reckoned -- particularly when one considered the almost imperceptible slant of her luminous dark eyes. Her body was strong, supple and well proportioned, if slightly plump by some standards and her jet-black hair was pulled back into a bun at the base of her neck. She extended a courteous hand to Marnsworth but she did not succeed in concealing the hostility in her eyes. "How very nice to see you. Captain." Her voice was soft and husky. It disturbed Marnsworth. "You are -- most welcome. We don't often have people from the Service visiting us." He grasped her moist hand with his plastic fingers and sensed her displeasure like a mild electric shock passing up his arm. "Thank you." Childers made a disparaging noise. "Damn fool lives in that suit. You'll never get him out of it. that's for sure." Feeling a trifle foolish, Marnsworth explained to the woman -- in detail -- why his survival suit was necessary and how unaccustomed he was to being off-ship. While he talked her ambivilance seemed to soften a little. "You have a very nice -- ah -- estate here," he babbled on, unable to stop now for fear that the terrible nexus would grab him again. "Mrs. Childers, I must confess that I never -- " "Oh, for God's sake, call her Rachel, will you?" Childers exploded, exasperated. And then turned attentively to his wife. "Would you like a drink?" She nodded. While her husband poured for her she moved gracefully across the room and sat down on an upholstered divan under the east window. The copper sunlight made her skin blaze. The vivid color of the shift was almost blinding to Mamsworth's weak, spaceman's eyes. She crossed her legs and Marnsworth realized that her feet were bare, like her husband's. Of course she had timed her entry with discretion, waiting until the two old friends had established some sort of rapport and then, with the penchant for perfect timing that only beautiful women seemed to possess, had announced herself when her presence was most needed -- her arrival had made their disagreements unimportant for the moment. "When do you have to be back?" Childers asked. "Well, I don't really know. That damned drive could take days to fix and -- " "Then why not stay here with us for a while? Have yourself a holiday away from that damned Service -- " He bit his lip and shrugged apologetically, realizing he had made a mistake. "Matter of fact, Rachel and I are visiting some friends of ours this evening -- a sort of party, you might call it. I think you'd enjoy yourself. As I remember, you were always one for a good time." A good time... The words had meant something once, long ago, between schooling and the Service, when there had been time for things without Purpose. Something else that Marnsworth had forgotten. They were both watching him -- the woman sipping at her wine, frankly curious, Childers with an edge of nervousness about him he seemed not quite able to understand. Marnsworth sniffed. It was a painful gesture -- his sinuses were swollen and irritated and he was finding it difficult to breathe. "You see," Childers elaborated, "there's quite a colony of us around here. Murray's place is only about fourteen miles north, on the other side of the river. Every month we have a gettogether at each other's place -- we take turns -- and generally have ourselves a ball. It's only when you're isolated from people for a great deal of time that you begin to appreciate their company. I know you're probably anxious to get back to your ship but we'd be delighted to have you with us, wouldn't we Rachel?" Marnsworth looked at the woman. Only her eyes were visible as she raised her glass to her lips. She inclined her head a little to one side and her answer was a husky whisper. "Of course." Marnsworth fidgeted nervously. "Well -- " What could he say? Of course he felt uncomfortable but an insatiable curiosity made him want to find out more about these people. There was an enigma here he should be able to understand. "If you think it would be all right with your friends?" Childers laughed and looked relieved. "But of course they won't mind. And wait until you see what a fine bunch of people we've got here." Childers placed a brawny arm around Marnsworth's narrow shoulders and grabbed his arm excitedly. On the divan the woman sipped her drink and studied Marnsworth thoughtfully with a distant and impenetrable expression. land. No spectacular sunset transfigured the dull sky -- the copIF pery haze simply faded gradually away, as though a finely adjustable rheostat had been brought into play. Mamsworth had spent most of the afternoon wandering around Childers' estate in the company of his old friend. In the process he had come to understand the activities that occupied the ex-Serviceman but he was still no nearer to comprehending his motives. Childers tilled and cultivated many acres by hand and the use of a few simple tools -- there were no automatons that Marnsworth could see. The main crop was coffee, a local transplanting that had thrived at this altitude and enabled Childers and his wife to live comfortably. Export of the popular beans ensured that the space people and their home world could enjoy the occasional draught of a non-synthetic stimulant, although the price levied on outworld goods was prohibitively high for all but the chosen elite. "I understand it retails back home for something like five credits an ounce," Childers observed, "and that's refined and adulterated." "Five thirty-four," Marnsworth corrected. "Is that so?" Childers smiled ruefully. "Well, Service pays us five and a half cents a pound -- I can't imagine that all that extra is made up of freight and handling. Somebody has sure cornered themselves a market in natural coffee." "You don't seem concerned that somebody is making an enormous profit from all your work." "Huh? Oh, I can't be bothered about those things, Damian. They can do what they like after it leaves my hands. Everything I care for is here. They can have the rest." The rain had persisted all afternoon. Now they sat in comfortable cane chairs on the veranda of Childers' house and watched the sunlight fade from the heavy clouds. Marnsworth had apologized and zipped up his parka several hours earlier. He had been unable to tolerate the oppressive island atmosphere any longer. The constant fall of fine rain and the high humidity were causing pain through his nasal cavities and putting a constricting sensation into his chest where the unfiltered air rampaged. Now the subtle mechanisms whirred soundlessly in his suit and flushed out the excessive moisture and warmth, so that his breathing became easier and a little of the discomfort was eased out of his head. He sat and stared at the soft curtain of moisture. Occasionally a light breeze would puff some of it toward the house and it would fall like sea-spray upon the verandah. "Does it ever stop?" he asked. "Sometimes. Do you find it depressing? We don't really notice it any more -- not when it falls like this. One of the many advantages of having a low surface gravity. Point six-eight -- or is it six-four? I seem to have forgotten." Childers' eyes were bright and clear and he could see well out into the darkening landscape. But Marnsworth's view had been obscured for some time by the distorting film of moisture on the outside of his parka. "Is this why you left the Service? Simply to be a landman? To move dirt around with your fingers and never know the stars again?" Childers looked up at the dark clouds where the stars were rarely visible. "If you mean, did I come here only for that, then I can't really answer you. You see, we've only begun to discover what we want to do. I've been too busy relearning what it is to be myself to worry about motivations -- but yes, I like it here. We like it here. I can't think of going back to the Service -- even if they would have me, which I doubt -- so where's the sense of asking?" "Because I have to know." "Why, Damian? Why is it important that you should know why I came here when I don't even know the multileveled answer myself? All I know is that I could never be a Servicepian again -- not with all that emptiness outside crowding to get in. I guess I just wasn't made for it. Maybe Control goofed. It must happen sometimes. Sure, they mold us into a pattern, but how much can they motivate our subconscious? I believe that there are worlds -- and Hydria is one of them -- that reach out to some deep part of us we are unaware of and these worlds communicate with our subconscious in a way that Control never planned. But only some of us have need of and heed their summons. The misfits. The failures. The dropouts. The ones ill-wrought by Control." He laughed and waved a hand at Marnsworth's distorted and horrified face behind the clouded parka. "Oh, don't worry, Damian -- you're all right, I think. Control made a fine job of you. But with me -- and some others -- they were clumsy. You are a creature of space -- something new. But Rachel and I are landpeople. Perhaps the ultimate destiny of the human race is to put a fresh new face on the universe -- one day they might even find some way of fitting out Earth with some fantastic sort of drive that will enable them to take their whole synthetic world out to the stars. But our roots are deeper, Damian. We love the land. There is something there that spaceman should not entirely forget." "But your youth -- " Marnsworth struggled to speak. "Why did you discard your youth?" Childers shrugged and smiled an enigmatic smile. "It's late," he IF said, getting up and studying the encroaching darkness. "We'd best go inside and get ready or we'll have Rachel on our backs." N umerous exits led off the main room but Marnsworth could see no doors. An open house -- how very extraordinary... Rachel was waiting for them. She was standing at one of the exits -- or entrances -- a slight impatience in her manner. She had changed into a plain white smock that came freely down to midthigh and exposed her long brown limbs to advantage. She was barefoot still -- it seemed to be a custom of the island -- and her dark skin made a dramatic contrast with the smock. As he moved closer Marnsworth saw that she had some arrangement in her hair -- he realized with surprise that it was a fresh red flower. He saw beads of moisture still on it. A peculiar people... He felt suddenly ill at ease. He had opened his parka again from a desire to be courteous to this woman but suddenly, facing here like this, ready to leave, he felt a little conspicuous in his survival suit. He wondere'd if it had been such a good idea to agree to attend the local festivity or whatever it was called. Childers deciphered his indecision. "Don't worry about that," he said quickly, indicating Marnsworth's suit. "They won't mind -- really they won't." And am I to be a speciman -- a curiosity ? Marnsworth's confidence had been badly shaken in the past few hours. Could he, just this once, and for only a few hours, submit to some small discomfiture, so that he might meet these people as an equal and not some oddity from Earth? "If you have something I can wear," he said, "I'll leave this stuff behind. I'd feel a bit of a fool, you know, walking in on your friends like this." Rachel smiled and he found a new warmth in her eyes. "But of course," she said and turned back through the entrance. "I'll get you something." A few minutes later she returned and handed the spaceman a pair of tan shorts and a bone-colored sleeveless jacket from her husband's wardrobe. The jacket was a trifle big but the shorts, he saw with relief, were a stretch fabric. He took them and then stood feeling foolish while they stared at him. It was a bad moment. And then Rachel, with an intuitive understanding of the situation, whisked back out of the room murmuring something about makeup. Marnsworth hastily stripped off his suit -- he stood naked for a moment like a skinned vegetable. "It must feel strange," Childers observed, "after all this time." Which was true enough. A spaceman was not accustomed under social conditions or aboard ship to exposing overmuch of himself. Not even back home, where one always swam in carefully filtered waters and alone and... He dressed as quickly as he could in the strange outfit the woman had provided. T HE solitary wan moon of Hydria was struggling to pierce the clouds when they left the house -- only a pale glow was visible on the horizon. They left -- not in Marnsworth's skiff but in a similar machine adapted to Childers' requirements. It was low and wide with ample cargo space in the rear and a single bench seat up front. They sat close together and Marnsworth was uncomfortably conscious of the nearness of Childers' wife, of her pressing against him and of the rich, musky odor of her skin. The subtle perfume she had sprinkled over her body did not completely mask this unpleasantness from his suddenly critical olfactory sensibilities. But it didn't offend him as much as it should. Something -- perhaps the very strangeness of the environment he was experiencing so directly -- had induced in his thoughts a delightful euphoria, so he relaxed and let his mind wander, instead of marshaling it disagreeably for the evening ahead. The sky cleared in patches where some small stars sputtered. Something gripped his stomach and he looked quickly away. Outside the perpetual drizzle enveloped the clear canopy of the craft. The journey could not have taken more than twenty minutes but for Marnsworth it was a time of increasing discomfort. He was unaccustomed to this sort of proximity, sandwiched between two people as lightly clad as himself. And the air inside the skiff had become increasingly sticky. The odor of his own sweat mingled with that of Childers and his wife. He could feel it running down his sides in small, embarrasing rivulets. His naked arms were slick with moisture and he could feel Rachel's warm wet shoulder pressing against his own -- nervous sidelong glances showed him that her white shift had darkened in patches where it stretched tightly across her breasts. Once he shifted uneasily and she turned and smiled, considerately, as though she were aware of his discomfort and were trying to reassure him that the flight would soon be over. His head did not feel too bad. With the lowering of the sun the temperature had dropped considerably and this made the general humidity easier to bear. A white arc of the river blazed suddenly before them in the newly victorious moonlight. The skiff dropped toward a cluster of bright IF lights along one shore. "That's it," Childers announced. Marnsworth breathed a cautious sigh of relief. A large clearing was spread out below them. From this height the surrounding forest glittered through the drizzle like a miniature fairyland. "Murray's wife loves decor," Rachel explained. "She just adores lighting the place up for these gettogethers." They landed near a group of similar machines at the edge of the clearing. Childers swung back the canopy and climbed out, motioning to Marnsworth to follow. The spaceman tensed, then dropped lightly to the ground. His body reacted predictably at the feel of wet grass underneath his bare feet but he did what he could to dispel the revulsion. He turned around and extended his hand automatically to Childers' wife. She accepted it, a glimmer of oldworld charm in her eyes, and climbed down from the skiff. Her hand was soft, moist and warm, like his own. "Thank you," she said. They looked at each other for a fragment of time and Marnsworth could see that, although she had not managed to completely suppress a mixture of distaste and amusement, she had thawed gradually toward him. He still sensed a remaining difference between them -- a region of acceptance beyond which she was not prepared to move. Perhaps it was the gulf that had always existed and was continually widening between landpeople and the space society Marnsworth was part of. "This way," Childers directed and led them across the lawn toward the gaily decorated patio. A number of people were already assembled. Marnsworth had the uneasy feeling that the group had been buzzing with conversation prior to their arrival and that a sudden silence had descended upon them when they had failed to recognize Childers' companion. Childers introduced him around. They were all dressed more or less alike, in the casual manner of the island. The men were mostly bare-chested and in shorts -- the women wore short, filmy dresses and sleeveless, bolero-type vests. Some were naked from the waist up, like their menfolk. But it was the colors of the clothes that surprised Marnsworth. These people seemed to prefer the loudness of primary colors the way some people wanted their music played always at a high, ear-crashing volume. In the dazzling illumination the vivid blues and reds and yellows seemed to possess a strange life of their own -- he had never before seen a group so gaily and dramatically dressed. Each individual was wrapped in his own bright haze, trapped by the sifting rain and the constantly changing lights. Marnsworth blinked constantly under the assault and moved sometimes like a man only half awake. to Murray Wiseman. The spacemen found him to be an anachronism of his age, a stout man. His belly protruded well over the top of his shorts and his navel was a monstrous exclamation. He had a great thick thatch of body hair that the rain had slicked down all over his chest but, with the exception of a few miserable gray tufts around his ears, he was quite bald. His pate shone wetly under the lights -- the film of moisture had made it a fine reflective surface. "So this is your visitor." He pumped Marnsworth's hand soundly. His eyes were alive and fierce and they made the spaceman want to turn away. "Damian Marnsworth," Childers introduced. "He's from the Service -- a captain. And my old boss. Got his ship laid up for a few days and popped out to see us. Damian, this is Murray Wiseman." "Well, enjoy yourself, enjoy yourself," Murray admonished. "We don't often have visitors from outside." He nodded to Rachel and then moved off to join his other guests. Marnsworth felt strange. His head began to swim and he reached out to take hold of a balustrade. He felt that he was drowning in an ocean of age. The faces of the guests moved around him like ragged leaves in a whirlpool -- he had never seen so many old people. On each and every one of them death seemed to have made a claim and worked an insidious pleasure. Rachel's fingers clamped around his arm where it clung to the balustrade. "Come over here." He allowed her to lead him away from the patio toward the darker area of the clearing. She found him a seat and told him to sit down. He smiled sheepishly. And he was glad that she was at least adequately dressed -- he had been shocked to see that some of the older women here had decided to wear only skirts or shorts. There were some things so repulsive about old age that one should avoid displaying them. Not that anybody here was much past forty. It was the ugly patina of aging in all their faces that he found disquieting. "Stay here," she suggested, "and take it easy. I'll get you something to drink." A few minutes later she reappeared with  small wooden tray loaded with dishes filled with fine food and two small mugs of red wine. "Here, try some of this." IF He sat up. "I don't know if I should." One had to be careful eating offship. "Gerard chose the food," she explained. "He said it shouldn't interfere with your delicate digestion." Her smile was mischievous. "And the wine will help. It's very gentle." He found that it was. His stomach did not complain, so he investigated some of the unfamiliar savories Childers had piled up on the tray. "Are you my guardian angel for the evening?" he asked. His breath had become a little labored and he wished he had brought along his suit, just in case. She laughed. "Well, somebody's got to keep an eye on you. How are you feeling?" He shrugged. "The climate, you know -- " "Yes, I understand. It must be difficult." He noticed drops of rain upon her long eyelashes -- they made her eyes seem brighter than before. She really was a very beautiful woman -- and one day that beauty would fade, would decay and all because the miraculous rejuvenants were beyond these people's grasp. Such neglect seemed criminal. Back home her beauty would last for a century or more. Here, on this worthless world, it would be doomed in a few short years. "Try one of these, Damian." He roused out of the creeping mental fog that was threatening to betray him and looked down at the bundle of dark red grapes in her hand. "They're delicious," she said. She had called him by his first name and for some reason that helped him to feel better. But his stomach protested the prospective invasion of the small fruits. "No -- thank you. Really, I couldn't eat another thing." "Not even one -- just to try? They really are tasty." Reflections of colored, flashing lights danced in her dark eyes. "All right," he groaned. "But just one." He picked one of the grapes awkwardly -- his limbs were becoming unresponsive; he really should have brought some antiintoxicants with him -- and placed it into his mouth. He closed his teeth around it cautiously and felt the juice spurt out and bite his tongue, the pulpy flesh collapse. Whatever flavor it possessed was pleasant enough but dulled by the amount of rich food and wine he had previously consumed. "I think," he began and swallowed, "I've had a little too much of -- everything." "No more wine?" "No. Too much of that, too." But it was more than that -- it was the warmth of all these happy bodies around him, the rising humidity and the weakening euphoria -- he felt drowsy. He wanted to sleep and in fact he must have slipped off then into a quiet, unfussed doze without really noticing how tired he was. He awoke later with a start and found himself alone. Rachel had disappeared and he was in darkness. Somebody had extinguished all but a few of the festive lights and the remaining ones were so distant that they shed no light upon him. He sat up at once, confused. His head gave a lurch that matched a similar movement in his stomach, and he dared not get up for fear of shaming himself. He looked closely around him. The guests had moved back from the patio and congregated in a silent semicircle between him and the house. The patio blazed suddenly with light and he realized that their attention was directed that way and not toward him. He relaxed. He heard a far-off roll of drums or some such percussive instrument. His ears pricked up. A number of people had moved out onto the black and white tiled mosaic of the patio. They were dressed differently from the others. The women wore long flowing white gowns and the men white pants suits, intricately embroidered. Their faces were hidden by what he considered to be some sort of ceremonial masks, and there was no sound now other than the swish-swish of the womens' skirts on the tiles. The drums had ceased. The people moved to what appeared to be predetermined positions on the patio. Others, clad more discreetly in somber capes and cowls, assumed their places in the background. Marnsworth saw that they carried with them a variety of instruments, although he could not recognize any of them from memory. The patio light dimmed and the masked figures in the foreground were picked out one at a time by individual spotlights. The guests crowded surreptitiously closer. A sudden hush descended upon the clearing. The dance, play or whatever it was, was about to begin. IV M arnsworth could not move -- his curiosity had transfixed him. He could not understand what was happening. But if his mind could make no sense out of what was going on he found his body reacting to a stimulus he could not identify. The performance seemed to be a subtle blend of mime and dance and drama juxtaposed, moving smoothly and intricately from one form to the other as the needs of the composer were answered. The music was predominantly percussive -- the delicate tremor of something like castanets, muted gongs, IF tabors and other instruments were quite alien to Marnsworth's ears but not to his body -- his cells remembered when his conscious mind did not. The general effect was hypnotic, not upon his mind so much as on his body. Although he recognized only a word here and there -- or a gesture or two -- he became alarmed at the way his pulse throbbed and his forehead ached. The moving figures on the mosaic dazzled and blinded him and yet he could not turn away for fear of missing something profound. He had no idea of how long the performance lasted -- time ceased to have any dominion for the duration of the play. But inevitably the dancersactors brought the dramadance to a close. They performed a rich and intricate coda and then moved quietly back to their original positions. A final murmur came from the hidden drums, muted and in rapport with the night, and then the spotlights dimmed. Silence and darkness rushed down upon the clearing. For perhaps a full minute nobody seemed to breathe. Then the players shed their masks and robes and moved back among the guests. The lights returned gradually and, even when they were fully on, were somewhat duller than before. Marnsworth found that he could not easily dispel the feelings that the play had conjured up within his unsuspecting body. His eyes searched for Rachel and found her the center of an admiring number of guests. Her eyes flashed triumphantly as they met his. She smiled and waved, turned to say something to her husband. Childers stepped toward him. His eyes were bright with happiness. "Well, did you like it? Rachel excelled herself tonight." And he knew then why he had followed the movements of one of the dancers with such intensity. "She's been working on that performance for months. Ages of rehearsals and tonight -- a triumph." "But I didn't understand a word of it," the spaceman protested. Childers smiled graciously. "You weren't supposed to. Latin is a rather dead language even at home -- but it has a certain beauty of its own, don't you agree? Of course the Service finds little enough use for it." He had not meant the words to cut so deep, but Marnsworth bled. "Do you delight in your obscurity?" "No. We try to be simple, to be close to life, to what is real. Why must the simple always seem complex to an outsider?" The guests collected in the main room of Murray's house at a great wooden table. When they had arranged themselves in a reverent group around this symbol -- with Mamsworth well to the rear the better to watch the ritual -- Murray Wiseman came in. In his arms were several dozen books, odd little printed volumes such as the spaceman had only seen previously in out-of-the-way museums. Murray deposited the books carefully on the table and stepped back. "Well, there's the latest batch," he announced. "Hot off the little old press. Now don't stand there all night -- step forward." And they did. Each in turn went forward and accepted, with thanks, one of the slim volumes. Childers' turn came around. He brought back a book and handled it with delight. "Some poems of Robert Graves," he explained. Mamsworth said nothing. Presently he made himself ask, "Does this little ritual round out every party?" He was unable to conceal his contempt for useless labor. "Whenever he's launching a new publication -- yes. It takes him about three months for him to research and transcribe a new tape, then set up the type and run off each page." "You mean he prints everything by hand?" "Of course." "The man's a fool." Childers said nothing, only smiled his enigmatic smile and fondled the small book in his hands. A solitary volume was left on the great wooden table. Murray leaned over, picked it up with a flourish. He held it briefly aloft. "And this one's mine." An undercurrent of laughter moved through the room and the guests began to disband. The major business of the evening was over and Mamsworth could detect the movements of people wondering whether or not it was late enough to go home -- or if there might be time for one more drink. the way back to Childers' house. The thirty-two-hour Hydrian day, coupled with overindulgence in native food and wine, had combined to intensify his exhaustion. But once they were home Rachel brewed some of the rich dark coffee he had come to associate with the island -- strange, but he could no longer think that it belonged to the Service -- and this helped to revive his sagging spirits. The two men sat apart in the main living room, sipping their warm drinks while Rachel plucked out haunting, timeless melodies on a strange stringed instrument in her lap. The instrument was broad and long and she had to sit crosslegged on the floor to play it. The fragmented music that leapt from her fingertips was unbearably ancient. The unfamiliar tonal idiom IF -- could it have been Asian? -- moved restlessly through Marnsworth's cluttered mind. They sat thus for some time, until the stark, uncompromising music stopped and Marnsworth saw that Childers' wife had fallen asleep over her instrument. Her head was resting against the side of the divan and her dark hair was undone and pooling around her shoulders. Childers apologized for the lateness of the affair and, with a gentleness Marnsworth envied, picked up his wife and cradled her in his arms. She did not stir. "I guess it's time we were all asleep," Childers said. He brushed his bushy cheek against Rachel's jet-black hair. "Take any room you like." He watched them move out through one of the doorless exits and when he walked through the house to find a place to sleep he found that a heavy weight had attached itself to his already overburdened heart. He discovered a small, sparsely furnished room with a bed in one corner. He sank down gratefully, conscious of the spartan nature of the upholstery, but too tired to care. He felt warm; he had no need for blankets. He waved his hands across the nearby wall until it passed over the eye that controlled the light; the room dimmed down to an agreeable twilight, and finally, over a period of perhaps several minutes, into darkness. His thoughts tumbled over and over in his muddled head, like playful kittens with sharp claws, and strange music echoed around the ghostly caverns of his soul. He thought of Rachel, and all the other women he had known, and found that sleep was elusive for a time; and when he did stumble eventually into that realm, he dreamed a nightmare... breathed and pulsed with life. He lay spreadeagled and naked across it, held there by some powerful and unseen force -- it was like being fastened to a medieval rack and being unable to see his tormenters. Overhead the stars wheeled crazily, burning whorls of light knitted together by shuttling steel shapes. He felt a little like Gulliver on visible threads to the soil beneath him. And he was afraid. His body ached. The ache corkscrewed into agony. The force that held him inert seemed also to be pulling him down, a little at a time -- down into the moist and suffocating surface of the world. He couldn't move and faces danced before him, vague and unsmiling and riddled with age. The world turned again and again and again and the rack tightened until it seemed that his body would fly apart. The angry soil rose up all around him and crept over his limbs -- it wanted to bury him. His skin began to slough away from his features and he knew that a ragged, ancient face stared up at the whirling universe, where fireflies of starlight buzzed and the little steel shapes knitted busily. He opened his mouth to cry out. And awoke. And found that he could not move. The lost echo of a scream reverberated around the narrow room. Hrs breathing was coarse and irregular. His body weighed a ton or more. The residue of a nightmare was reluctant to let go of him. For a moment he wondered if he were really awake. Why couldn't he move? There was a terrible ache in his head. His face seemed to be on fire. A hundred tiny needles were burrowing through his sinus cavities. He could hardly breathe, let alone cry out, and the terrifying stigmata of his dream still glared at him out of the darkness. His body felt dirty and uncomfortable from the burden of his sweat. Gradually his fear subsided. He managed to roll over onto his side down to the hard wooden floor. He felt drugged -- probably from too much native wine -- and his movements were sluggish. But somehow he groped his way awkwardly through the dark and back into the main room, where a soft night light still glowed. He found his suit and managed to crawl back into it. The effort seemed to take hours. His fingers scrabbled anxiously at his belt controls. Once they were functioning he leaned back against a chair and waited for some comfort to return. The tiny mechanisms whirred audibly in the unnatural silence, busily whisking impurities out of his air. He sat still for some time -- until he could breathe with some freedom -- and then made his way back to his room. He sank back onto the bed exhausted. His suit soothed and protected him and made him comfortable and he was soon fast asleep. His head stoppedthrobbing and the ache in his sinuses eased a little. But his dreams were vague and uncertain, although they lacked the virulence of the earlier nightmare. His body was cool and comfortable but inside he felt foul. Too much incautious wining and dining had had their way -- he really should have been more careful. His mouth was dry and felt like the bottom of abird cage. He had to get a drink somewhere and something to get rid of the hangover. There was nobody about when he walked into the main room. He IF opened the front door and strode to where his skiff was pafked. He opened the locker and fumbled for some tablets that would alleviate the worst effects of the wine. He could not swallow them dry, so he wandered around the grounds until he found a small natural fountain around one side of the house. He cupped one hand under a faucet and washed down the pills with several ounces of fresh water. The liquid stung his throat, it was so cold. But the flavor was not unpleasant and in a few moments he felt the veil of fog begin to lift from his mind. Yet there was a stain that refused to shift and made him feel a stranger to himself. Too much wine, jar too much. I must be more careful. That was a damned foolish thing to do... He switched on his sensors and listened to the quiet. The morning was calm. Only the distant patient passage of the river moving over some rocks was audible. He extended a hand and saw a drifting film of fine rain collect upon it. Strange, he had not noticed it was raining until now. How had he come to accept something so unfamiliar? Behind some nearby trees he spied a small stream running down toward the river. Farther on he could see where it formed a wide, shaded pool before going again about its business. Some fresh sounds came from this direction. They could have been human voices. Marnsworth ambled over in that direction to see who it was. The pool was wide, deep and dark where the wan sunlight had not yet penetrated. Somebody was splashing happily in the chill waters. He saw an upraised arm settle back into the pool and draw the swimmer towards him. Childers' wife -- enjoying her own remedy for hangovers, he surmised. But the spaceman shivered at the thought of that icy pool and was not tempted. He took a step forward to call out and then froze, his hands stiff at his sides. A sudden enchantment had settled over the pool. It seemed to sweep up from the past -- from his past -- from the unquarried limbo of his youth to a time when he, too, had swum without questions in waters no different from these. Long ago -- on a world called Earth, when there had been time for such pleasures and space to accommodate them. His ears filled with the tingle of forgotten sounds and sights. Rachel stood up and waded ashore. She stood with her feet braced wide apart and raised both her hands to her neck and crushed the cold pool from out of her long dark hair. It raced down the arch of her spine and splashed around her ankles. Her brown body was beautiful in the soft morning sunlight and Marnsworth felt a sudden and intense surge of sexual desire -- so powerful that it caught him unprepared and made him shake so much that he had to lean against a nearby tree for support. She had closed her eyes while she swept the water from her hair. Now she opened them and looked across at him, as though seeing him for the first time. And for the space of that drawn-out moment Marnsworth felt that all his life, all of his living, all that he had ever been and ever hoped to be, was stretched out between them like a finely strung wire. The silence was tangible. And then she smiled, and flicked her hair with her hands, and stepped forward to pick up a towel. The violent need that had momentarily gripped Marnsworth quivered and then dissipated itself throughout his body. He opened his mouth but found that he could not speak. His heart hammered and pushed his blood at such a pace that it seemed to scour his lungs. He could not move or speak, for her smile had transfixed him. It had been an expression so complete in its friendship that he wondered how he could ever speak to her again. In a moment she had seen the clumsy betrayal of his face, had divined in that small space of time the nature of his desire and, with her smile, seemed to have suggested that, had the moment been otherwise, they might have lain together and she would have taken from him that terrible surge of passion. She had understood. She moved about, drying herself, the swing of her broad hips casual and unself-conscious. "Good morning, Damian," she said, brightly. "Sleep well?" He could not answer. Instead he looked away and stared into the deepest part of the pool, as if the shadows of the overhanging trees could hide his shame. the other side of the pool. Childers' body broke the water. He swam across with slow, powerful strokes and jumped lightly ashore. He grabbed for his own towel and attacked his streaming wet body vigorously. "Hope you slept well, Damian." "After -- a fashion," the spaceman managed. He gestured awkwardly at his survival suit. "I had to -- you see." They understood. Rachel brushed idly at her wet hair with her towel. It was suddenly a vivid blaze of orange, the color of the shift he had first seen her in. Childers gave her a playful pat on the belly. "How is he this morning?" She smiled mysteriously. "Rachel's having a child, you know," Childers explained. "Another five months and -- " But Marnsworth wasn't listening -- he had recoiled in horror, his eyes fastened on the woman's IF abdomen. Of course she was statuesque but he could see right away that the slight bulge at her waist was not right. He looked like a man who had been physically struck. He stumbled a few steps backward. "You mean -- you mean she's going to have it herself?" A cloud passed over his friend's face. Childers put his arm around his wife. "Does that sound so strange? That my wife will have a child, from her own womb, and in her own time? That's the way she wants it, Damian -- and that is the way I will be proud to accept my son -- or daughter, as the case may be. You see, we won't really know until the child is bom. Isn't that marvelous? For us there can't be any other way." Marnsworth stared at them. Except for the profound and confident glow of intelligence in their eyes they looked like two naked savages. There was no longer any point in maintaining a facade of communication. Last night should have been a warning. This whole trip had been a mistake. Without another word he spun around and marched blindly back toward his skiff. He did not know that his eyes were filled with tears -- for him tears were an unaccustomed occurence. He no longer noticed the rain and he did not hear Childers' wife calling out to him. He moved in the grip of a mindless fury. There could be nothing beyond the final proof of this insanity -- it was monstrous that Childers should allow his wife to risk her life giving birth to a child in such an un-Controlled and dangerous manner. He climbed clumsily into the skiff and swung shut the canopy. But he hesitated before the controls -- they had become a hazy blur to him -- and that was time enough for Childers to catch up with him. Rachel ran behind her husband, the orange towel trailing like a forlorn sail. Marnsworth shook his head but the haze would not clear. Angrily he flicked a toggle. The motor hummed into life. Beyond the canopy he could see Childers' face upturned and could read the despair that was etched there. "Damian," he called out. "Damian -- think of us. Think of why you came here if you never have before. We need somebody to understand -- somebody to bridge the gap -- " And then they were gone. The skiff accelerated sharply skyward. It hovered for a moment, rechecking coordinates, and then shot away at a steep angle, allowing Marnsworth a last glimpse of the people below. They, both seemed so small, locked together in their madness. Rachel's towel made a dark orange stain on the grass. The image burned itself deep into his memory and he knew that he would never be able to erase it from his mind. Damn you! Damn you... T HE skiff moved rapidly away from the estate, burrowing anxiously through the dense rain clouds at maximum acceleration. But as fast as it moved it was pursued by something faster -- a nameless invisible terror that seemed to possess the shape of a great bird of prey, vengeful and demented. It spread wide its dreadful claws and fastened them into his skull and began to tear away at his gibbering mind. Darkness engulfed him, a darkness where his voice became a whimpering pale thing that could not be heard. The auto-pilot carried him safely back to the Barain, where kind hands lifted his weeping, twitching body from the small craft and carried him to a private room on board the massive starship. And there he was confined with his sickness while they fired the engines for the short passage home. And still his terror possessed him. A stranger walked the wailing corridors of his mind -- someone alien and yet himself, struggling to break free. Sometimes he awoke from his tormented dreams and struck his fists against the bulkhead until they bled, or until others arrived and strapped him back into his bed. They could not understand that he had only screamed defiance at the hostile universe outside that was crowding to get in. And he dreamed of rivers and trees and sunlight and the pallid women of Earth with their mouths agape for orgasm -- but their minds were divorced in time from the simple pleasure of their bodies. They were old and yet they were young and he hated them for it and the angry beast inside him struggled to get out and smash their smiling faces. He dreamed of flesh and steel, darkness and light and his small room fogged up like the world he remembered as Island One. The same moist air draped itself around him. It was like living again in the warm wet womb he had never known. He was a child of a silver cylinder -- but his cells remembered. And Rachel's face would sometimes come smiling through the corruption and the terror and he would recall her nature and all the other things about the island and the memory would often make him smile in his sleep. Almost he began to understand. But it was only when his body took over the unequal task and remembered what it was that he had to remember, to survive, that he began to hope. But that came later. When the physicians on Earth had finished with him. After they had nursed him and nurtured him IF and purged the poisons from his To wander lonely and afraid system. After they had slain the through the crowded streets, pushgreat ugly bird and removed its ing his way through the bland untalons from his soul and then, consmiling multitudes of the forever vinced that they had done all that young, looking for the miracle of they could to help him, released an old and tired face, him. And for himself.  What happens when you swap love partners -- and win a hot curvy bundle of hate? change to drop into the baby-sitter. Sam Burse patted the chrome front of the robot and backed away from the front door. "I'll get my charge tag," he said. "Come on in anyway." "You can pay us when you get home," said the box-shaped, man-size robot. "You're one of our good customers, Mr. Samuels. You needn't pay in advance. We trust you." "You've got my name turned around." Sam crossed the livingroom pit and took his coat from a sofa chair. It's Samuel Burse." The robot said, "We've been doing that lately." He rolled over the threshold and followed Sam across the carpeting. "Your kids are named Danny and Nancy, though, aren't they?" "That's right." "We're not completely absentminded then," said the robot. He collided with a near-marble coffee table and a vase of straw flowers fell off. "Oops." A small arm extended out of the shiny box and scooped up the fallen flowers. Sam said, "The kids are already in their sleeping room, watching the wall. You can go look in on them and introduce yourself." The robot arranged the flowers carefully, then rolled to one of the framed oblong view-windows. "That's really lovely. I always enjoy sitting jobs here in Build Up Six, because of the Pacific Ocean. I'm programed to have esthetic responses. It's a big help in handling kids." Sam put on his coat and felt in its pouches. "This was all the ocean under here before they filled it in back in, back in nineteen eighty-nine." The robot rolled again toward the coffee table. "We notice you have a bowl of carrots here next to your flowers. Is that something new in the way of decor?" "No, it's my work." Sam found the charge tag and tossed it to the robot. "We'll be quite late. So charge us the maximum now." The polished robot put the dogtag into a slot in his left side. "Fifteen, even. Right you are." He returned the charge tag. "You're in the produce business?" "No, I'm with a company called Conglomerated Food West and I'm in charge of new names." Sam was not particularly satisof looking, maybe after the first of the year, for something new. "Isn't carrots a good enough name any more?" "People don't seem to like to buy just carrots all the time," said Sam. "Even though carrots, being a real vegetable, are a prestige item. So we have to come up with new ways to package them, to serve them. Each new use calls for a new name." The robot asked, "What was it you wanted us to do?" "Look in on the kids and introduce yourself." "Oh, yes, I remember now." The baby-sitter was at the doorway when Sam's tall pretty wife came in. "Good evening, Mrs. Anita." After the robot had rolled down the ramp into the children's room area, Anita said, "We ought to think, Sam, about dealing with a new company. These people have sent us too many forgetful machines lately." "We could stay home tonight," He'd wanted to suggest that, earlier, while Anita had been dialing dinner. She touched absently at her long dark hair, frowning. "Not on our swap night. No." She walked nearer to him. "You're not enjoying this much any more, are you?" Sam hesitated. This didn't seem like the best time, with a strange machine in the house, to get into a discussion. "No, it's okay. You like it. It's fun." "After a long week with all your dumb vegetables you should welcome Friday," she told him. "Yes, thank God it's Friday." He turned to watch the same stretch of dark ocean the robot had admired. "Well," said his wife, "I still enjoy our swap nights. I might even say I look forward to them. But if you don't -- " "Nobody's complaining," said Sam. "We'll go ahead." "Grudgingly," she said. "Oh, darn, Sam, I finally thought we found a shared activity we both enjoyed. Now, after three or four months of it you're gloomy." Sam faced his slim, pretty wife and smiled. "I'm not gloomy." "You're smiling grudgingly." From the children's bedroom double laughter came. "They both like him" said Sam. "They're sympathetic toward incompetence," said Anita. "Probably inherited." Sam nodded and said, "Let's goIn the children's area the robot was calling the children by the wrong names and their laughter continued. T HE swap unit was housed at the Taplins' place. Their house was also on Build Up Six, five blocks from the Burses'. You could drive there without bothering to hook onto the speedways. Sam drove because Anita only IF had a slot license. This sector of Greater Los Angeles was so secure and well patrolled you could even walk on the sidewalks if you cared to. Don Tapplin was seated in front of the swap unit when they got there. He was a small, roundshouldered thirty-two-year-old and he was reading a paper tape that was unreeling out of Spinner # #-#. "Hi, Sam. Hi, Anita," Don said over his shoulder. "That's interesting." Maggie Taplin was sitting in a vaguely yogi position on the thermal rug, her slim back touching the view window. "What is?" "It says there are now two hundred participants in our swap group." He tore the tape free of the machine and waved it in the air as though drying it. "Meaning a hundred couples. So what are the possibilities, Sam?" Sam answered, "Considerable, I'd say." "Sam saves his brain for thinking about vegetables," said Anita. She went and stood near the machine. "He's got no time for mathematics." Don Taplin handed her the strip of paper. He put his palms on the top of Spinner # #-#. "Well, whatever the exact number of different combinations is, it sounds like more fun. I've gotten the same Chinese girl over in Build Up Nine twice in the last month." "Always belittling," said the swap unit. It had a round, mouth-sized speaker grid on its top. Next to the bank of dials. Don flung up his hands. "I didn't know it could talk." "What do you think the speaker grid is for?" asked his wife. "Does he talk to you?" asked Don. "Oh, sure," said Maggie. "When you're at the office he recites love poems to me." Spinner # #-# said, "Once in a while I like to speak up. Hello, everybody." "What kind of love poems?" "Your wife is spoofing you, Don," said the swap unit. "What do you recite if it isn't love poetry?" "Nothing, Don," said Maggie. "Nothing." "I joined this swap group because we get programed promiscuity," said Don. "Fun and in the open. Nothing secretive. Now I find you've been having some kind of strange relationship with this machine." "Is everybody in our unit present now?" asked the machine. "Yes," said Maggie, rishing. "The Verbecks are sick tonight. Flu." "I think I have a touch of that myself," said the machine. "Say, Mr. Burse, would you feel down behind me and see if I'm all flush around my synchronizing device." "Wait," said Sam. "Are you on the blink or what? Don,  where's the manual for this thing?" "Look, it's almost time to start tne spin," said Don. "If we get off schedule we might lose our turn. I'm anxious to see what some of the new recruits are like." "I'm fit as a fiddle," said the spinner. "Now each of you must drop a name card into my left side, being sure to include absent cards for the Verbecks. Then follow with the standard release card, which absolves the Greater Los Angeles Mate-Swapping Coop System of any liability or responsibility in case of mismatching, physical injury or -- heaven forbid it should happen in this day and age -- infectious disease." "We ought to check the repair manual," said Sam. He considered suggesting they call off tonight's session, decided not to mention it. Anita stepped around him, took the proper cards from the grill basket on the table next to the swap unit. She inserted them in the machine. "There." Don went next, then Maggie. And, last, Sam. A small green plastic cone on top of the machine flared with light and the machine gave a ratcheting sound. "Round and roun she goes and where she stops nobody knows." "I liked things better when he didn't talk," said Anita. In succession, clockwise, the dials began to spin. A plume of sooty smoke rose from some place within Spinner # #-#. "We ought to call the damn Sam. "Relax," said his wife. "Bingo," said the machine. A white card sprang from a big square hole in its front. "Mrs. Anita Burse, there's your swap mate for tonight. You're to wait back at your home until he arrives." Anita caught the card off the rug. "What an interesting name." "Who?" asked Sam. Anita put the card face down on her palm. "Remember the rules. We don't talk about it until afterward." A card for Don came out next. He looked at it, then made a fist around the card. "I should have taken out the manual." "The Chinese girl again?" said Maggie. "Actually he's very fond of her. I suspect he's probably tried to tamper with the machine so he can get her every time." IF "I haven't. There'd be no sense participating in this swap group if we didn't all play fair. That's the real fun of a wide-scale system like this. We have access to two hundred carefully screened people from all of the better sectors of Greater Los Angeles. Much more fun than the simple old-fashioned neighborhood mate-swapping. Some primitive thing where you all throw keys in a ring. This is technological." Maggie had her card by this time. "I'm to stay home tonight, too." "Well, folks, bon voyage," said Spinner # #-#. "What about Sam?" asked his wife. "Who?" "Sam. Him." She tapped her husband with the hand that didn't hold the card. "Oh, yes. Oh, yes." The swap unit made a grunting sound and its ratcheting grew harsher. "There, it's coming along now. There." A large pale blue punch card snapped into the air, spun like a paddle wheel down to the rug. "Also this for you." A spinning slip of lined yellow paper followed. Sam took up the two pieces of paper. "What's this all? I'm supposed to get a card with a name, address and instructions." "You can't beat us for infinite variety," said the machine. "We don't like to cloy the appetities we feed." The yellow slip had # scrawled on it in pencil. The card was a preprogram for a speedway cab. "What? I give this speedway route to a cab and go to this address to meet my swap for tonight?" "Must be," said Don. "That sounds like real fun. Want to trade with me, Sam?" "Against the rules," put in the machine. "I'd have to report anything like that." "Let's," said Anita, "get on with this. Come on, Sam. Drop me at the house and then drive yourself to a cab station." "Maybe we ought -- " Sam began, then shook his head. "Okay." "Have fun," called Don as they left. T HE automatic cab detached itself from the speedway and headed down an off-ramp, its electric motor clicking on. Sam narrowed his eyes, his face close to the window. "Where exactly are we?" "Right where your trip slip ordered," replied the car. It rolled onto a pot-holed street and stopped next to a canal. "Venice, California. This is your stop." "The Venice sector?" Sam had his hand on the door release. It didn't seem likely anyone in this part of Greater Los Angeles would belong to this swap plan. "That'll be five dollars." "Charge it to my cab card. The number is ####. Except -- " "You must disembark now," the cab told him. "I'm logged to pick up a fare down in Manhattan Beach." "Maybe you ought to just take me back." The swap group prospectus had said nothing about drawing on the ghetto sectors. "I'd like to but it's not up to me, sir. I'm already slotted for Manhattan Beach. You'll have to get out of the cab now or I'm obliged to eject you." "No need," said Sam. "I'll go scout another cab." The cab said, "Nice meeting you -- " and drove off quietly. Sam glanced at the slip of paper in his hand, then looked down the street. He saw low houses, old and faced with peachcolored stucco. Beyond them was a scatter of dusky brick warehouses. Sam walked toward a street lamp at the far corner. Mist was thickening around him, fuzzy and cold. There was a # on this block, a stucco and red tile cottage with wooden shutters and lighted windows glowing warm. He hesitated, stopped on the cracked flagstones and wild grass fronting the place. Well, since he was here, he'd try it. He went up to the door and knocked below the gilt #. "God bless you, whoever you are," said the bent black man who opened the door. "Whatever brings you to my door on this dismal night, I expect the good lord had a hand in it." "I -- " said Sam. "Well, I don't suppose you've heard of the Greater Los Angeles MateSwapping Co-op System?" The man sent two fingers up toward his eyes, which were masked by wrap-around green glass. "Oh, yes, I've heard of them, sir." "You're not -- that is, nobody in this area is participating?" The black man laughed. "Nobody lives in this old house but me,sir. Only me. Blind Frank Holes. No, it's not likely anyone around here would belong to something as fancy as the Greater Los Angeles Mate-Swapping Coop System." He made a groping reach for Sam's hand. "I tell you, though, I bet I know what happened. Listen, I've got to trot over to my place of business. You give me a helping hand and I'll give you the benefit of what I think." "Well, okay." "Just excuse me a second. I've got to turn off a few things in my old house." In less than three minutes Blind Frank stepped out on IF his narrow cement porch, closed his door. He took a good grip on Sam's arm. "We only got to get down to one-o-one at the corner, sir." "Sure," said Sam. "So what's your theory?" "Well, sir, I've heard this swap outfit of yours uses second-hand, second-rate equipment. I hear those routing machines make lots of mistakes but the company hushes all that up." "Sounds doubtful." "Still, you're here and not someplace else." They were at the door to a warehouse. "Would you help out and put my key in the padlock, sir? This fog makes my poor fingers stiff. Of course, the good Lord, he's got his reasons for making me blind and crippled." Sam got the metal door open and gave it an inward shove. "I'll go get to a cab stand now. Good night." Blind Frank kept a hand on Sam. "Would you guide me to my workbench? Oh, you better turn on the lights for yourself. I don't need them but you will. Switch right inside on your left, sir." Sam stepped inside and found the switch. Six overhead light strips, pale yellow and coated with dust flared on. The domed, cold room was full, cluttered and jammed with old robots, androids, servomechanisms, automatic chefs, soft-drink dispensers. "I'm in the electronics business," explained Blind Frank. Even though the good Lord took away my sight and bitched up my hands, I still do repairs." Sam said, "That your workbench under the windows?" "Yes, right next to the electric evangelist." "Is that a street-corner preaching unit?" "Yes, sir," said Blind Frank. "I bought him in an auction after a food riot in the Glendale sector. Somebody swiped his right arm. Ripped it clean off. So they decided the figure wasn't worth much without his blessing arm. Me, I figured I can fix him up with parts of a taco chef I got last month down in Tijuana. Govenment was controlling some students and they messed up a whole block of ethnic restaurants." "In times like these," said the blond humanoid evangelist, "in times like these we hear a good deal of talk about loss of faith. Now I'm here to say we all better have faith because there's judgment coming. Judgment and hellsmoke, not to mention earthquakes, mudslides and the usual brush fires. Everybody who wants to get salva I tion, raise your right hand. Just like me." "That's why he's going to need a new arm," said Blind Frank. The robot evangelist was waving the empty sleeve of a smudged white suit. "Best arm I can give him," said Blind Frank, "has got a spatula built into it." Sam said, "I'll be leaving." A new voice broke in. "You got one for us? Is that why -- you know -- you called?" A young girl was leaning in the open doorway. She was twentytwo, small and frail, wearing a man's one-piece suit. "I think maybe yes." Blind Frank snapped off his glasses and picked up a heavy wrench from the workbench. Sam said, "Wait, now." The girl adjusted her floppy hat and came into the warehouse, closing the door gently. She had small sharp breasts and almost white blond hair. "He looks, you know, usable." "He surely does," said Blind Frank. Sam watched the frail girl approach. "You're signed up with the Greater Los Angeles Mate -- " "Curtain time is less than an hour away," she cut in. "Lonn's, you know, growing really anxious. We're sold out. If you hadn't called I would have had to use the street corners again." She focused on Sam. "Down here, mister, everything's a swap. But we don't always swap mates for mates." "I'm going to leave now," Sam told them. "Whatever it is you're up to, forget it. v "This here is Miss Mary Glidden," explained Blind Frank. "She's in partnership with Lonn DeSoto. You surely have heard of him." Sam frowned as the girl reached out and touched him. "The name, yes," Sam said. "I've Jieard it but I'm not certain -- " "Those fires of hell," said the robot preacher, "are going to burn through all eternity, friends. You know what eternity is? It's a long time -- " "The police," said Sam, remembering, "are looking for Lonn DeSoto. He's the guy who puts on plays where people are supposed to get killed." "Yes, Lonn is, you know, the founder and director of the Theater of Murder," said Mary Glidden. She rubbed slender fingers under Sam's chin. "And you are going to be, you know, tonight's star." Blind Frank swung out suddenly with the wrench and knocked Sam to the floor. "... are quite meaningless. The whole Western tradition of theater has now and for all time deadended," the girl's voice was telling Sam. "Words, as either symbols or modes of communication, are passe'. You must live for action, mister, or you wouldn't be here. All that fits these, you know, brutal times we live in is a brutal theater. We've been working toward a more physical form of drama for IF a decade now and Lonn, the messiah of completely realized brutal theater, has had the courage to explore the extremes. The, you know, ultimate performance. I'm happy to be a part of his Theater of Murder." She had a pistol in her slender hand and she jabbed it at his stomach. "So now do you understand your part?" Sam said, "I'm sorry. I must have been unconscious." The pistol barrel dug into him again. "Well, pay attention, won't you? You have no -- you know -- feel for show business. Lonn says we've got a hundred people down there in the audience tonight. There's even a vidtape talent scout." Sam breathed in air through his mouth. He widened his eyes and tried to see clearly again. Yellow rings danced in the thick air of the little dressing room he was in. He blinked and the rings faded. There were clothes racks against two of the walls. Sam noticed a small window. "You really mean to kill me?" "I'm not famous for, you know, kidding around," said Mary Glidden. Sam found he was in his under- wear. "My clothes -- " "You must really be dizzier than you look." She scratched at her sharp left breast with the barrel of the hand gun. "I already explained you are to play Indian -- Lonn's getting into his Kit Carson costume. Hurry up and, you know, get your costume on." Sam noticed a feathered headress and a blanket at his feet. He and Mary Glidden were alone in the tiny room. She said, "Curtain going up in ten minutes." Sam picked up the feathers and the blanket. "This makes you some kind of accessory." "We're beyond -- you know -- silly considerations like that by now." Sam lunged with the blanket and dropped it over the girl. The pistol fired through it but missed him. He swung a hard fist at where he guess Mary's chin was. She sighed and sank down. His clothes were sprawled in a wing chair. He grabbed most of them and went to the window. He tugged it open and hopped to the ledge. He hesitated, then jumped. T HE phone screen in the battered booth throbbed green and a throaty voice with a faint Irish accent said, "That number is not at the moment in service." Sam said, "Okay, okay." He clicked off and stayed in the booth. He had tried to call his wife, Anita. He wanted to reach her. She was probably okay but he worried. Even if she turned out to be all right, this business had to stop. Something could go wrong again -- anything -- and hurt Anita. He would have to talk to her, even IF if it meant an argument. Sighing, he dialed the police and waited. A high keening grew outside, a red whooping. Sam looked out. A mobile police station, two white glass balls on its front cab, was coming up the street. Sam stepped out. "Hands up," ordered a voice from the side of the long green trailer. "Don't move and don't say anything incriminating." Sam eased closer to the mobile station. "Officer -- " "Hands up." Sam put up his hands. "I was going to report something to the police -- " A door in the green trailer slid open and a tall man leaned out. "Step inside," he said. "I'm Sergeant Plumb, Venice Division, Greater Los Angeles Police." "I'm Sam Burse. Samuel L. Burse, from Build Up Six." He climbed up a three-rung iron ladder and into a gray metal room. Sergeant Plumb got behind a synthetic wood desk and pulled an audiotypewriter in front of him. "Let's have your statement. First -- why are you lurking around in such an unkempt manner and without any shoes?" Mate Swapping Co-op System," said Sam. "Our local spinner is sort of on the fritz. It sent me to the wrong place." "Yeah, we get reports on slipip imot ip froi A ti Lenvrii This month, the Berkley Travel Service offers a variety of trips (all good), from that venerable fantastic voyage in itraising trek through Old Lemuria with the mighty-thewed Valkarthian in if you fancy it, a swing through the Return flights not guaranteed. Lin Carter (X#, # Keith Laumer (X#, # (X#, # (X#, # Next month: Heinlein, Hubbard, Harrison! If your newsstand or bookstore is out of stock, order any of these (list price plus a dime postage) from: # Madison Avenue, N.Y., N.Y. # Purchasers of our books have complete freedom of choice in pricing these books for resale to others. ups like that from time to time. Is that going to be your story?" "Yes, part of it. I ran into a fellow named Blind Frank Holes and he turned me over to Lonn DeSoto, who was going to kill me." Plumb activated his typewriter. "You're an associate of Lonn DeSoto, are you?" "No, more a victim. He was going to kill me as part of his show. I can show you where they planned to put on one of their murder plays." "What I'd like is a statement on why you're running around in the shape you're'in." "Aren't you interested in Lonn DeSoto? He's murdering people." "Around here we pick up lots of people who claim they can give us tips," said the sergeant. In a dark corner of the room an old man in a black suit rattled to his feet, yawned. "Has he confessed yet, sarge?" "No, Judge Littony." The judge stepped into the light. "What does RI say about his fingerprints, sarge?" Sergeant Plumb grabbed Sam's hand, shoved it into a slot in the desk. A red light flashed next to the slot and a gray card popped out. Plumb looked at it. "This really is Burse, Samuel L. of Build Up Six. No criminal record. B-plus credit rating. Want us to hold him?" Judge Littony shook his head. "With a credit rating like his? Get a statement from him and let him off at the next cab stand." The judge returned to the shadows. S AM's house was quiet. The living room area was faintly lit. Sam ran from the cab to his front door, opened it. Three steps inside he stopped. Anita, in a pale blue night robe, was sitting on a near-leather chair. A cup of still steaming cocoa rested on her bare knee. "I decided to wait up," she said. "Nearly dawn, isn't it?" Sam came further into his house. "Must be," he said. "How are you?" She smiled. "Fine," she said. "He left a couple of hours ago. A pleasant man, though a bit plump, from the Beverly Glen sector. I enjoyed myself." Sam watched her, then wandered to the view window. The sky was paling to gray over the quiet ocean. He thought again of what he had planned to say. "That's good," he said finally. A single gull seemed asleep at the water's edge. "What about you?" asked Anita. The gull arose and went walking away, skirting the sea. Sam kept watching it. "Oh, I can't complain," he said.  IF sticky business. They are not in the form of a protest, which would be useless. Holly is gone and the Shelni will all be gone in the next day or two, if indeed there are any of them left now. This is for the record only. Holly Harkel and myself, Vincent Vanhoosier, received funds and permission to record the lore of the Shelni through the intercession of that old correlator, John Holmberg. This was unexpected. All lorists have counted John as their worst enemy. I remember his words. After all , we have been at great expense to record the minutiae of pig grunts and the sound of earthworms and we have records of squeakings of hundreds of species of orbital rodents. We have veritable libraries of the song and cackle of all birds and pseudo-ornins. Well, let us add the Shelni to our list.  do not believe that their thumping on tree roots or blowing into jug gourds is music. I do not believe that their singsong is speech any more than the squeaking of doors is speech. We have recorded, by the way, the sound of more than thirty thousand squeaking doors. And we have had worse. Let us have the Shelni, then, if your hearts are set on it. You'll have to hurry. They're about gone. And let me say in all compassion that anyone who looks like Miss Holly Harkel deserves her heart's desire. That is no more than simple justice. Besides, the bill will be footed by the Singing Pig Breakfast Food Company. These companies are bitten by the small flea of remorse every now and then and they want to pitch a few coins into some fund for luck. It's never many coins that they want to pitch -- the remorse bug that bites them is not a very large one. You may be able to stretch it to cover your project though, Vanhoosier... So we had our appropriation and our travel. Miss Holly and myself. Holly Harkel had often been in disrepute for her claims to understand the languages of various creatures. There was special outrage to her claim that she would be able to understand the Shelni. Now that was odd. No disrepute attached to Captain Charbonnett for his claim to understand the planetary simians, and if there was ever a phony claim it was this. No disrepute attached to Meyrowitz for his claim of finding esoteric meanings in the patterns of vole droppings. But there seemed something incredible in the claim of the goblin-faced Holly Harkel that not only would she be able to understand the Shelni instantly and completely but that they were not low scavenger beasts at all, that they were genuine goblin people who played goblin music and sang goblin songs. IF Holly Harkel had a heart and soul too big for her dwarfish body and a brain too big for her curious little head. That, I suppose, is what made her so lumpy everywhere. She was entirely compounded of love and concern and laughter and much of it bulged out from her narrow form. Her ugliness was one of the unusual things and I believe that she enjoyed giving it to the worlds. She had loved snakes and toads, she had loved monkeys and misbegottens. She had come to look weirdly like them when we studied them. She was a snake when we studied them; she was a toad when they were our subject. She studied every creature from the inside of it. And here there was an uncommon similarity, even for her. Holly loved the Shelni instantly. She became a Shelni and she hadn't far to go. She moved and scooted and climbed like a Shelni. She came down trees head first like a Shelni or a squirrel. She had always seemed to me to be a little other than human. And now she was avid to record the Shelni things " -- before they be gone." some scientists have called them humanoid and then braced themselves for the blow and the howl. If they were humanoid they were certainly the lowest and oddest humanoids ever. But we folklorists knew intuitively what they were. They were goblins pure and simple -- I do not use the adjectives here as cliches. The tallest of them were less than three feet tall; the oldest were less than seven years old. They were, perhaps, the ugliest creatures in the universe -- and yet of a pleasant ugliness. There was no evil in them at all. Scientists who have tested them have insisted that there was no intelligence in them either. They were friendly and open. Too friendly, too open, as it happened, for they were fascinated by all human things and to their harm. But they were no more human than a fairy or an ogre is human. Less, less, less than a monkey. "Here is a den of them," Holly divined that first day (it was the day before yesterday). "There will be a whole coven of them down under here and the door is down through the roots of this tree. When I got my doctorate in primitive music I never imagined that I would be visiting brownies down under tree roots. I should say that I never so much as hoped that I would be. There was so much that they didn't teach us. There was even one period in my life when I ceased to believe in goblins." The latter I do not believe. Suddenly Holly was into a hole in the ground head first, like a gopher, like a ground squirrel, like a Shelni. I followed her, letting myself down carefully and not head first. I myself would have to study the Shelni from the outside. I myself would never be able to crawl inside their green goblin skins, never be able to croak or carol with their frog tongues, never feel what made their popeyes pop. I myself would not even have been able to sense out their dens. And at the bottom of the hole, at the entrance of the den itself, was an encounter which I disbelieved at the time I was seeing and hearing it. There occurred a conversation which I heard with my own ears, they having become transcendent for the moment. It was in the frog-croak Shelni talk between Holly Harkel and the five-year-old Ancient who guarded the coven, and yet it was in a sort of English and I understood it. "Knockle, knockle." (This from Holly.) "Crows in cockle." (This from the guard.) "Wogs and wollie. "Who you?" "Holly." "What's a dinning?" "Coming inning." So they let us in. But if you think you can enter a Shelni coven without first riming with the fiveyear-old Ancient who guards it, then it's plain that you've never been in one of the places. And though the philologists say that the speech of the Shelni is meaningless croaking, yet it was never meaningless to Holly and in flashes it was not meaningless to me. The secret guess of Holly was so. Holly had insisted that the Shelni spoke English within the limits of their vocal apparatus. And they told her at this very first session that they never had had any language of their own "because no one had ever made one for us -- " so they used English as soon as they came to hear it. "We would pay you for the use of it if we had anything to pay you with," they said. It is frog-croak English but only the pure of ear can understand it. I started the recorder and Holly started the Shelni. Quite soon she had them playing on those jugshaped flutes of theirs. Frog music. Ineffably sad sionnach skirries. Rook, crow, and daw squabbling melody. They were pleasant, weird little pieces of music that sounded as thpugh they were played under water. It would be hard to imagine them not played under the ground at least. The tunes were short, as all tunes of children are short. There was no real orchestration, though that should have been possible with the seven flutes differently jugged and tuned. Yet there was true melody in these: short, complete, closed melody, dwarfed perfection. They were underground fugues full of worms' blood and cool as root cider. They were locust and chaffer and cricket din. Then Holly got one of the most ancient of the Shelni to tell stories while the jug-flutes chortled. Here IF are the two of them that we recorded that first day. Others who listen to them today say that there is nothing to them but croaking. But I heard them with Holly Harkel, she helped interpret them to me, so I can hear and understand them perfectly in frog-croak English.  Take them. Grisly Posterity! I am not sure that you deserve even this much of the Shelni. It is told this way. There was a Shelni who lost his burial tooth before he died. Every Shelni begins life with six teeth, and he loses one every year. Then, when he is very old and has only one tooth left, he dies. He must give the last tooth to the Skokie burial-person to pay for his burial. But this Shelni had either lost two teeth in one year or else he had lived to too great an age. He died. And he had no tooth left to pay with. "I will not bury you if you have no tooth left to pay me with," said the Skokie burial person. "Should I work for nothing?" "Then I will bury myself," said the dead Shelni. "You don't know how," said the Skokie burial-person. "You don't know the places that are left. You will find that all the places are full. I have an agreement that everybody should tell everybody all the places are full, so only the burial-person may bury. That is my job." Nevertheless, the dead Shelni went to find a place to bury himself. He dug a little hole in the meadow but wherever he dug he found that it was already full of dead Shelnis or Skokies or frogs. And they always made him put all the dirt back that he had dug. He dug holes in the valley and it was the same thing. He dug holes on the hill, and they told him that the hill was full, too. So he went away crying, for he could find no place to lie down. He asked the Eanlaith whether he could stay in their tree. And they said no, he could not. They would not let any dead folks live in their tree. He asked the Eise if he could stay in their pond. And they said no, he could not. They would not allow any dead folks in their pond. He asked the Sionnach if he could sleep in their den. And they said no, he could not. They liked him when he was alive but a dead person has hardly any friends at all. So the poor dead Shelni wanders yet and can find no place to rest his head. He will wander forever unless he can find another burial tooth to pay with. They used to tell it so. O NE comment on this burial story -- the Shelni do have careful burial. But the burial crypts are plainly dug, not by the six-fingered Shelni but by the sevenclawed Skokie. There must be substance to the Skokie burialperson. Moreover, the Skokie, though higher on the very low scale than the Shelni, do not bury their own. Furthermore, there are no Shelni remains going back more than about thirty equivalent years. There are no random-lying or fossil Shelni at all. The second story (of the first day). This is how they tell it. There was a woman who was neither Shelni nor Skokie nor frog. She was Sky Woman. One day she came with her child and sat down under a Shelni tree. When she got up to go she left her own child who was asleep and picked up a Shelni child by mistake. Then the Shelni woman came to get her own child and she looked at it. She did not know what was wrong but it was a Sky People child. "Oh, it has pink skin and flat'eyes! How can that be?" the Shelni woman asked. But she took it home with her and it still lives with the Shelni and everyone has forgotten the difference. Nobody knows whaj the Sky woman thought when she got the Shelni child home and looked at it. Nevertheless she kept it and it grew and was more handsome than any of them. But when the second year came and the young Shelni was grown it walked in the woods and said, "I do not feel like a Sky people. But if I am not a Sky people, then what am I? I am hot a duck. I am not a frog. And if I am a bird, what kind of bird am I? There is nothing left. It must be that I am a tree." There was reason for this. We Shelni do look a little bit like trees. So the Shelni put down roots and grew bark and worked hard at being a tree. He underwent all the hardships that are the life of a tree. He was gnawed by IF goats and gobniu. He was rough-tongued by cattle and crom. He was infested by slugs and befouled by the nameless animal. Moreover, parts of him were cut away for firewood. But he kept feeling the jug-music creeping up all the way from his undertoes to his hair and he knew that this music was what he had always been looking for. It was the same jug and tine music that you hear even now. Then a bird told the Shelni that he was not really a tree but that it was too late for him to leave off growing like a tree. He had brothers and sisters and kindred living in the hole down under his roots, the bird said, and they would have no home if he stopped being a tree. This is the tree that is the roof of our den where we are even now. This tree is our brother who was lost and who forgot that he was a Shelni. This is the way it has always been told. On the second day it was remarkable how much Holly had come to look like a Shelni. And she was hardly taller than they were. I had never realized that she was so small. Ah, well, she has come to look like every sort of creature we have ever studied together. Holly insists that the Shelni have intelligence and I half agree with her. But the paragraph in the basic manual of this world is against us: -- a tendency to attribute to the Shelni an intelligence which they do not possess, perhaps due to their fancied human resemblance. In maze-running they are definitely inferior to the rodents. In the manipulation of latches and stops they are less adept than the Earth raccoons or the asteroid rojon. In tool handling and true mimicry they are far from equal to the simians. In simple foraging and the instinct for survival they are far below the hog or the harzl. In mneme, the necessary prelude to intelligence, they are about on par with the turtles. Their "speech" lacks the verisimilitude of the talking birds, and their "music" is below that of the insects. They make poor watch-dogs and inadequate scarecrows. It appears that the move to ban shelniphagi, though perhaps sincere, is ill-advised. After all, as an early spaceman put it: "What else are they good for?" Well, we have to admit that the Shelni are not as intelligent as rats or hogs or harzls. Yet I, surely due to the influence of Holly, feel a stronger affinity to them than to rats or hogs or coons or crows or whatever. But no creature is so helpless as the Shelni. How do they even get together? The Shelni have many sorts of songs but they do not have any romantic songs in our sense. After all, they are small children till they die of old age. Their sexual relationship seems distinguished either by total unawareness or by extreme bashfulness. "T don't see how they bring it  off at all, Vincent," Holly said the second day (which was yesterday). "They are here, so they must have been born. But how do these bashful and scatterbrained three-year-olds ever get together to bring it off? I can't find anything at all in their legends or acting patterns, can you? In their legends all their children are foundlings. They are born or discovered under a blueberry bush (my translation of spionam). Or alternately -- and in other cycles -- they are found under a quicken tree or in a cucumber patch. In common sense we must assume that the Shelni are placental and viviparous. But should we apply common sense to goblin folk? They also have legend that they are fungoid and spring out of the ground at night like mushrooms. And that if a Shelni woman wishes a child she must buy a fungoid slip from a Skokie and plant it into the ground. Then she will have her child ready the next morning." But Holly was depressed yesterday morning. She had seen some copy by our sponsor, The Singing Pig Breakfast Food Company, and it disturbed her! "Singing Pig! The Children love it! Nourishing Novelty! Nursery Rhyme Characters in a can for your convenience! Real Meat from Real Goblins! No fat, no bones. If your can has a lucky number tab you can receive free a facsimile Shelni jug-flute. Be the first on your block to serve Singing Pig, the meat from real Goblins. Cornstarch and natural flavor added." Oh, well, it was only an advertisement that they used back on World. We had our recording to do. "Vincent, I don't know how they got here," Holly said, "but I know they won't be here very long. Hurry, hurry, we have to get it down! I will make them remembered somehow." Holly, got them to play on the tines that second day (which was yesterday). There had been an impediment the day before, she said. The tines may not be played for one until the second day of acquaintance. The Shelni do not have stringed instruments. Their place is taken by the tines, the vibrating, singing forks. They play these many-pronged, tuned forks like harps and in playing them they use the tree roots for sounding boards so that even the leaves in the air above partake a little of the music. The tines, the forks are themselves of wood, of a certain very hard but light wood that is IF sharp with chert and lime dust. "How did she sound?" They are wood, I believe, in an asked the Shelni. "Like this?" early stage of petrifaction. The And he jugged some jug mutine music usually follows the jugsic on his flute, flute music and the ballads that "Yes, that is my wife," are sung to it have a dreamlike said the Skokie. "Where sadness of tone that belies the have you hidden her? That childish simplicity of the texts. is her very voice." Here are two more of those bal"That is nobody's wife," lad stories that we recorded on the the Shelni told the Skokie. second day (which was yesterday). This is the way they tell it. A Skokie heard a Shelni jug-flute jugging one night. "That is the voice of my wife," the Skokie said. "I'd know it anywhere." The Skokie came over the moors to find his wife. He went down into the hole in the ground that his wife's voice was coming from. But all he found there was a Shelni playing a jug-flute. "I am looking for my poor lost wife," the Skokie said. "I have heard her voice just now coming out of this hole. Where is she?" "There is nobody here but myself," the Shelni said. "I am sitting here alone, playing my flute to the moons whose light runs down the walls of my hole." "But I heard her here," said the Skokie, "and I want her back." "That is just a little tune that I made up." "You play with my wife's voice, so you must have swallowed my wife," the Skokie said. "I will have to take you apart and see." "If I swallowed anybody's wife, I'm sorry," said the Shelni. "Go ahead then." So the Skokie took the Shelni apart and scattered the pieces all over the hole and some of them on the grass outside. But he could not find any part of his wife. "I have made a mistake," said the Skokie. "Who would have thought that one who had not swallowed my wife could make her voice on the flute!" "It is all right," said the Shelni, "as long as you put me together again. I remember part of the way I go. If you remember the rest of the way, you can put me together again." But neither of them remembered very well the way the Shelni was before he was taken apart. The Skokie put him together all wrong. There were not enough pieces for some parts and too many for others. "Let me help," said a frog who was there. "I remember where some of the parts go. Besides, I believe it was my own wife he swallowed. That was her voice on the flute. It was not a Skokie voice." The frog helped and they all remembered what they could but it did not work. Parts of the Shelni could not be found again and some of the parts would not go into him at all. When they had him finished the Shelni was in great pain and could hardly move and he didn't look much like a Shelni. "I've done all I can," the Skokie said. "That's the way you'll have to be. Where is frog?" "I'm inside," said frog. "That's where you will have to stay," the Skokie said. "I've had enough of both of you. Enough -- and these pieces left over. I will just take them with me. Maybe I can make someone else out of them." That is the way the Shelni still is, put together all wrong. In his wrong form he walks the country by night, being ashamed to go by day. Some folks are startled when they meet him, not knowing this story. He still plays his jug-flute with the lost Skokie wife's voice and with frog's voice. Listen, you can hear it now! The Shelni goes in sorrow and pain because nobody knows how to put him together right. The Skokie never did find his lost wife. This is how it is told. A ND then there was the story that we recorded yesterday -- the last story, though we did not know it then, that we would record of the Shelni: This is how they say it. We have the ancient story of the singing pigs who sing so loud that they fly up into v the sky on the tail of their own singing. Now we ourselves, if we can sing loud enough, if we can jug the flutes strong enough, if we can tang the tines deep enough, will get to be the Singing Pigs of our own story. Many already have gone away as Singing Pigs. There come certain bellmen with music carts. They play rangle-dangle Sky music. They come for love of IF us. And if we can hurry fast enough when they come we can go with them, we can ride a tin can over the sky. Bong, bong, that is the bell-man with the music cart now! All the Shelni hurry! This is the day you may get to go. Come all you Shelni from the valley and the stream and jump on the cart for the free ride. Come all the Shelni from the meadow and the woods. Come up from the tree roots and the holes under ground. The Skokie don't get to go, the frogs don't get to go, only the Shelni get to go. Cry if the cart is too full and you don't get to go today but don't cry too long. The bell-men say that they will come back tomorrow and every day till there are no Shelni left at all. "Come all you little Singing-Pig-Shelni," a bell-man shouts. "Come get your free rides in the tin cans all the way to Earth! Hey, Ben, what other animal jumps onto the slaughter wagon when you only ring a bell? Come along little ShelniPigs, room for ten more on this wagon. That's all, that's all. We'll have lots more wagons going tomorrow. We'll take all of you, all of you! Hey, Ben, did you ever see IS Controversial Vninh itejtiri Ptgdgyjfijoui Humorom and Incredibly Interesting? Brian Aldiss... Poul Anderson... Piers Anthony... Isaac Asimov... Richard Bergeron... Bob Bloch... Vaughn Bode'... John Brunner... L. Sprague de Camp...Terry Carr... John Christopher... Philip K. Dick... Harlan Ellison... Philip Jose' Farmer... Jack Gaughan... Harry Harrison... Lee Hoffman... John Hayden Howard... Leo P. Kelley... Dean R. Koontz... Anne McCaffrey... Michael Moorcock... Alexei Panshin... Mack Reynolds... Bill Rotsler... Norman Spinrad...Bob Tucker... Harry Warner, Jr...Ted White... and many, many more... Richard E. Geis does his thing. Bi-Monthl y #pgs. Photo Offset P.O. Box #I # little pigs cry when there's no more room for them on the slaughter wagon?" These are the high kind words that a bell-man speaks for love of us. Not even have to give a burial tooth or other tooth to pay for the ride. Frogs can't go, Skokies can't go, only the Shelni get to go! Here are the wonderful things! From the wagon the Shelni get to go to one room where all their bones are taken out. This does never happen to Shelni before. In another room the Shelni are boiled down to only half their size, little as little-boy Shelni. Then they all get to play the game and crawl into the tin cans. And then they get their free ride in the tin cans all the way to Earth. Ride a tin can! Wipe off your sticky tears, you who miss the music cart today. Go to sleep early tonight and rise early tomorrow. Sing your loudest tomorrow so the bell-men will know where to come. Jug the flutes very strong tomorrow, tang the tines deep, say whoop whoop here we are, bell-men. All laugh when they go with the bell-men in the music cart. But there is story that someday a Shelni woman will cry instead of laugh when they take her. What can be the matter with this woman that she will cry? She will cry out "Damn you, it's murder! They're almost people! You can't take them! They're as much people as I am. Double damn you, you can't take me! I'm human. I know I look as funny as they do but I'm human. Oh, oh, oh!" This is the funniest thing of the story, the prophecy thing part. "Oh, oh, oh," the woman will say. Oh, oh, oh, the jugflutes will echo. What will be the matter with the Shelni woman who cries instead of laughs. This is our last story, wherever it is told. When it is told for the last time, then there will be no more stories here, there will be no more Shelni. Who needs stories and jug-flute music who can ride a tin can? That is how it has been said. Then we went out (for the last time, as it happened) from the Shelni burrow. And, as always, there was the rhyming with the five-year-old Ancient who guarded the place! "What to crowing?" ( Please turn to page #) IF A puzzle for angels: How many humans can survive each other in infinity? renz was asleep and Cappio, whose acceleration couch was between theirs, was dead. Cappio's throat was cut and, lying back as he was, the edges of the cut were drawn slightly apart as though Cappio had evolved, in the deep of space, a gill just under his chin. The blood had spurted far in the weak gravity, splattering the instrument panel and the observawith a pool which was now darkening and coagulating. Gibson looked at Lorenz, still asleep. There were -- had been -- only the three of them between Earth and Mars. It was the easiest murder mystery in the universe to solve. It occured to him that now, while Lorenz was still asleep, was the time to do something. To protect himself, to bind or if necessary even kill Lorenz. Briefly he pictured himself confronting Dr. Mann, the chief psychologist at Moonbase. Well, what do I do now , Doctor , outward bound with a corpse and a murderer? Then Lorenz's eyes were open and it was too late. For a second Lorenz was blank and unfocused. Then full consciousness came and he saw Cappio. He jerked erect. The old bitterness, the hatred Gibson had built up for Lorenz and Cappio too during the endless months in the capsule, came rushing back. Whatever happened he was glad that Lorenz had done this, glad Lorenz would be condemned if they ever got back, glad Cappio was dead. Lorenz reached over and touched Cappio's dead cheek very gently with the tips of his fingers. He said, "Why did you do it, Gib?" For a moment Gibson felt almost like laughing. Lorenz was going to dodge and trim to the last. He said, "Commander, you stink." "We all stink, bottled up in here -- but that was no reason to kill Major Cappio." "I mean you stink morally." Gibson's pressure suit was hanging behind him and he reached as quickly as he could for the utility knife in the tool belt. He saw the fear in Lorenz's eyes then and knew he could kill Lorenz if he wished. But Lorenz had his own knife out, threatening him across Cappio's body. "Why?" Lorenz asked. "Why did you do it, Gib?" "It's no use blaming me, Lorenz. When they get us back they'll give you drugs and a liedetector test. You're going to spend the rest of your life in prison. "You're saying I killed him?" "I know you did. For God's sake, Lorenz, there are only the two of us." "Look." Lorenz suddenly exIF tended his knife to Gibson. "Look at the blade. It's clean, isn't it?" Gibson nodded reluctantly. "Now let me see yours." "You really think I'm going to give it to you so that you can kill me too?" "Just hold it up where I can see it." Gibson held his knife up, keeping it well away from Lorenz. The blade was as clean as Lorenz's had been. "What does this prove," he asked Lorenz, "except that you were smart enough to wipe your knife afterward?" "I could say the same thing to you." "But you won't, because you did it." "No. You did it, Gib. You've been cracking up for the last six weeks at least -- but I'm trying to find out whether or not you remember the act. Putting it another way, whether or not I dare let you continue functioning as a member of the crew. The fact that you let me live suggests I might. The fact that you cleaned your knife -- well," Lorenz paused and shrugged, "I was going to say it suggested a conscious and sane premeditation but perhaps I'm wrong. That kind of neatness could be symptomatic, I guess. Dr. Mann would know." "If the radio worked -- " "If the radio worked this probably wouldn't have happened." "Or if the deodorizer hadn't gone out," Gibson finished for him. "Or any of the other things hadn't gone wrong. We're not going to make it, are we, Commander? So what does it matter, your O.B. anyway -- he hated us both and we're all going to die out here in space. We just can't make it." "Certainly we're going to make it," Lorenz said. "Nothing that's happened so far will prevent us from making a good landing on Mars -- and Cappio was a nice enough guy back on Earth, as I remember, and even on the moon." "With no radio they won't even know we made it." They had argued this a dozen times since the radio went out and Gibson suddenly realized that already, even with Cappio lying dead between them, they were falling back into the old pattern. To wrench them away from that deep groove he asked, "What are we going to do with the body?" of cleaner and was swabbing Cappio's blood from the observation port. Because the capsule was kept spinning to give them a gentle pseudogravitational effect the stars made bright, concentric circles of light in the port. When they had begun the mission Mars itself had circled as well since they were aimed toward the point were it would be, rather than to what had been its present location. Now they were close enough for the spin to be almost unnoticeable when Gibson looked only at Mars, a hard-edged, red dot in the center of the port. "Do you suppose that made you do it?" he asked Lorenz. "What?" Lorenz threw the packet of cleaner into the disposer and looked at him. "What are you talking about, Gib?" "Suppose the astrologers were right -- Mars breeds strife. Thou spark of blood, thou eye of death look'd down, Thou wanderer image of a burning town.' " "Nuts." "According to you I never know what I'm talking about, do I, Lorenz?" "Gib, things are bad enough without our fighting." Gibson laughed. "You cut Cappio's throat and now you tell me we shouldn't fight." "We'll have to throw his body out the hatch, I guess." "Out the hatch?" "We can't leave it in here. Come on, let's suit up." Gibson put on his pressure suit carefully, watching Lorenz, but Lorenz had put his knife back into his belt and made no sudden motion toward him. At last Gibson called, "Ready?" "Ready," Lorenz said. His voice was tinny over the suit radio. The hatch was on Gibson's side but he did not want to turn his back on Lorenz to open it. He stood sideways instead to pull at the big operating wheel. It would not move. Lorenz asked, "What's the matter?" Gibson tugged again. "It won't budge. It's stuck." Lorenz stepped across Cappio's body to help him but the lock was jammed. "My God," Lorenz said, "if we can't get it open we won't be able to use it when we get to Mars." "We can detonate the explosive bolts -- emergency procedure." "Sure, but you only open it that way once. After that we've lost our seal. We won't be able to keep a terrestrial atmosphere in the capsule." Gibson seated himself on his couch again and opened the face shield of his helmet. "Maybe we can fix it when we land." "Maybe. Aren't you going to take off your suit?" The suit was as good as armor, Gibson thought. It would protect him from Lorenz's knife. "Not now. I'm too tired."Lorenz snorted. "We haven't done anything for weeks except snap at each other. Why should you be tired?" He was stripping off his own suit. Why should he worry? He knows I didn't kill Cappio -- he hasn't anything to be afraid of... IF Aloud he said, "What are we going to do with the body?" "Put it through the disposer. What else can we do? We'll have to cut it up." "You," Gibson said. "You won't help?" Gibson shook his head and Lorenz shrugged. "Somebody's got to." suit belt again and looked at Cappio, trying to decide where to start. Gibson watched him. After a moment Lorenz decided on the arm nearest him. He laid it on the armrest and cut off the hand, working his blade through the small bones in the wrist. As Gibson watched he picked up the hand by the index finger and dropped it into the disposer, then bent over Cappio again to unjoint the elbow. Gibson drove his knife into the back of his neck then and Lorenz fell face down into Cappio's lap. For a long time after that Gibson sat staring out the observation port at the red dot of Mars. The hi-fi had broken when they were two weeks out but he tried it again anyway. It still didn't work, so he read the descriptions on the tapes instead, trying to remember what they should sound like. After a while he picked up the microphone of the dead radio and pushed the dead transmit button and said, "This is Gibson. I have killed Commander Lorenz because he murdered Major Cappio and I am sure that he was going to kill me. I intend to continue the mission but I am not going to return. The State Department may, if it likes, claim Mars on the grounds that it has a permanent American resident. Send unmanned supply rockets. I require airlock parts, radio repair -- " He put down the microphone. The disposer broke when he tried to put Cappio's femur through it. That left about twothirds of Cappio's body and all of Lorenz's still in the cabin. Gibson did the best he could. He sprinkled all the salt from the ration packets over them and put them in their pressure suits. The suits, being airtight, he thought should at least prevent the odor of the decaying bodies from fouling the air of the cabin. The calendar clock on the instrument panel showed that it was the hundred and thirty-fifth day of the flight. By the hundred and thirty-eighth Gibson knew he had been wrong. The suits leaked. He examined them carefully, inch by inch. Cappio's was sound but Lorenz's had been sabotaged at the back of one knee joint where something like a screwdriver or a utility knife blade had been driven in to destroy the seal of the delicately fitted parts. The same thing had been done to his own suit and (Please turn to page #) a jumpdoor -- an instantaneous space-travel medium controlled by Jorj X. McKie, Saboteur Extrathe mysterious Calebans -- and is ordinary of the Bureau of Sabo briefed on the emergency by fellow tage of the Confederated Sentients, BuSab agent, Alicheno Furuneo. is called to the planet of Cordiality Calebans, sentient members of the on an urgent mission -- a Caleban Con-Sentients, have lately been Beachball has been sighted on the disappearing, with disastrous efplanet. fects on humans and other sentients around them. It is thought that Mlis A b net he, an enormously wealthy and beautiful but unscrupulous human woman is somehow involved in the disappearances. No one has ever seen a Caleban and few have successfully communicated with one. McKie forces an entry into the Beach ball stranded on Cordiality and confronts the Frank Herbert Caleban domiciled in it. He succeeds in establishing communication with the Caleban, a pure sentient, who communicates from mind to mind and tells him that Mlis A b net he is indeed involved in the inexplicable goings on. Mlis is a flagella tor, who has acquired a contractual right to have the Caleban whipped for her pleasure -- in return she has promised certain educational advantages for Calebans. McKie witnesses and interrupts one oj the flagellations, discovers that the Caleban, who has assumed the name Fanny Mae, has fallen in love with him. McKie, a veteran of fifty-four unsuccessful marriages, is unimpressed, but utilizes the fact that the universality of love permits Fanny Mae to violate her contract with Mliss Abnethe and send him on her trail via a jumpdoor. The chase takes him to an unfamiliar planet, apparently in an earlier time. Inhabitants are Earth aborigines and apparently Abnethe s subjects. They try to kill him but he is rescued by Fanny Mae, brought back to his own time. When all attempts to decipher the location of Abnethe s hideout planets fail , McKie volunteers as bait. He returns to Fanny Mae's Beachball. There two attempts to kill him as Furuneo had been slain are foiled but neither Abnethe nor her Pan Spechi lover and aide, Cheo, betray their whereabouts. Meantime the Sentient laboratory where possible clues to Abnethe and Cheo are under study is turned into a shambles via a jumpdoor attack. McKie rushes over. In the lab he feels a constant threat while he and the Sentient scientists are trying discern a readable pattern behind Abnethe's activities. As they are beginning to approach a reasonable answer, McKie once again is attacked through a jumpdoor. The attack is foiled. XI tral before Tuluk sent for McKie to return to the lab. Two squads of enforcers accompanied McKie. There were enforcers all around in augmented force. They watched the air, the walls, the floors. They watched each other and the space around their alternate numbers. Every sentient carried a raygen at the ready. McKie, having spent two hours with Hanaman and five of her aides in Legal, was ready for down-to-dirt facts. Legal was moving to search every Abnethe property, to seize every record they could find -- but it was all off there somewhere in the rarefied atmosphere of symbols. Perhaps something would come of it, though. They had a Telecourt order, reproduced thousands of times, giving the Bureau's enforcement arm sufficient authority for search on most worlds outside the Gowachin pale. Gowachin officials were moving in their own way to cooperate -- exonerating sufficient enforcers, clearing the names of appropriate police agencies. Crime-One police on Central and elsewhere were assisting. They had provided enforcers, opened files normally not privileged to BuSab, linked their identification and modus computers temporarily to BuSab's core. IF It was action, of course, but it two steps to reach the paper, struck McKie as too circuitous, picked it up, studied it. The writtoo abstract. They needed another ing was in Tuluk's neat script. kind of line to Abnethe, something connected to her that could be reeled in despite her attempts to escape. Eight enforcers had crowded into the small lab with Tuluk. They were being self-effacing, apologetic -- evidence that Tuluk had protested in that bitingly sarcastic way Wreaves had. Tuluk glanced up at McKie's entrance, returned to examining a metal sliver held in stasis by a subtron field beneath a bank of multicolored lights on his bench. "Fascinating stuff, this steel," he said, lowering his head to permit one of his shorter and more delicate mandibular extensors to get a better grip on a probe with which he was tapping the metal. "So it's steel," McKie said, watching the operation. Each time Tuluk tapped the metal it gave off a shimmering spray of purple sparks. They reminded McKie of something just at the edge of memory. He couldn't quite place the association. A shower of sparks. He shook his head. "There's a chart down the bench," Tuluk said. "You might have a look at it while I finish here." McKie glanced to his right, saw an oblong of chalf paper with writing on it. He moved the necessary Substance: steel, an ironbase alloy. Sample contains small am'ts manganese, carbon, sulfur, phosphorus and silicon, some nickel, zirconium and tungsten with admixture chromium, molybdenum and vanadium. Source comparison: matches Second-Age steel used by human political subunit Japan in making of swords for Samurai Revival. Tempering: sample hardquenched on cutting edge only; back of sword remains soft. Estimated length of original artifact: #I meter. Handle: linen cord wrapped over bone and lacquered. (See lacquer, bone and cord analyses: attached.) McKie glanced at the attached sheet: bone from a sea mammal's tooth, reworked after use on some other artifact, nature unknown but containing bronze. The linen cord's analysis was interesting. It was of relatively recent manufacture and it displayed the same submolecular characteristics as the earlier samples of rawhide. T HE lacquer was even more interesting. It was based in an evaporative solvent which was identified as a coal tar derivative -- but the purified sap was from an ancient Coccus Lacca insect extinct for millennia. "You get to the part about the lacquer yet?" Tuluk asked, glancing up and twisting his face slit aside to look at McKie. "Yes." "What do you think of my theory now?" "I'll believe anything that works," McKie growled. Tuluk returned to his examination of the metal. "How're your wounds?" "I'll recover." McKie touched the omniflesh patch at his temple. "What's that you're doing now?" "This material ' was fashioned by hammering," Tuluk said, not looking up. "I'm reconstructing the pattern of the blows that shaped it." He shut off the stasis field, caught the metal deftly in an extended mandible. "Why?" Tuluk tossed the metal onto the bench, racked the probe, faced McKie. "Manufacture of swords such as this was a jealously guarded craft," he said. "It was handed down in families, father to son, for centuries. The irregularity of the hammer blows used by each artisan followed characteristic patterns to an extent that the maker can be identified without question by sampling that pattern. Collectors developed the method to verify authenticity. It's as definite as an eye print, more positive than any skin-print anomaly." "So what did you find out?" "I ran the test twice," Tuluk said, "to be certain. Despite the fact that cell revivificationests on lacquer and cord attachments show this sword to have been manufactured no more than eighty years ago, the steel was fashioned by an artisan dead more thousands of years than I care to contemplate. His name was Kinemura and I can give you the index referents to verify this. There's no doubt who made that sword." The interphone above Tuluk's bench chimed twice and the face of Hanaman from Legal appeared on it. "Oh, there you are, McKie," she said, peering past Tuluk. "What now?" McKie asked, his mind still dazed by Tuluk's statement. "We've managed to get those injunctions," she said. "They .lock up Abnethe's wealth and production on every sentient world except the Gowachin." "But what about the warrants?" "Of course -- those, too," Hanaman said. "That's why I'm calling. You asked to be notified immediately." "Are the Gowachin cooperIF ating?" McKie asked thoughtfully. "They've agreed to declaration of a ConSent emergency in their jurisdiction. That allows all Federation police and BuSab agencies to act there for apprehension of suspects." "Fine," McKie said. "Now, if you could only tell me when to find her I think we can pick her up." Hanaman looked from the screen with a puzzled frown. "When?" "Yeah," McKie snarled. "When." T HE report on the Palenki Phyllum pattern was waiting for McKie when he returned to Bildoon's office for their strategy conference. The conference had been scheduled earlier and postponed twice that day. It was almost midnight but most of the Bureau's people remained on duty, especially the enforcers. Sta-lert capsules had been issued along with the angeret by the medical staff. The enforcer squad accompanying McKie walked with that edgy abruptness this mixture of chemicals always exacted as payment. Bildoon's chairdog had lifted a footrest and was ripple-massaging the Bureau Chief's back when McKie entered the office. Opening one jeweled eye, Bildoon said, "We got the report on the Palenki -- the shell pattern you holoscanned." He closed his eye, sighed. "It's on my desk there." McKie patted a chairdog into place, said, "I'm tired of reading. What's it say?" "Shipsong Phyllum," Bildoon said. "Positive identification. "Ahhh, friend -- I'm tired, too." "So?" McKie was tempted to signal for a massage from his chairdog. Bildoon was obviously enjoying it. But McKie knew a massage might put him to sleep. The enforcers moving restlessly around the room must be as tired as he was. They'd be sure to resent it if he popped off for a nap. "We got warrants and picked up the Shipsong Phyllum's leader," Bildoon said. "It claims every phyllum associate is accounted for." "True?" "We're trying to check it but how can you be sure? They keep no written records. It's just a Palenki's word, whatever that's worth." "Sworn by its arm, too, no doubt," McKie said. "Of course." Bildoon stopped the chairdog massage, sat up. "It's true that phyllum identification patterns can be used illegitimately." "It takes a Palenki three or four weeks to regrow an arm." "What's that signify?" "She must have several dozen Palenkis in reserve." for all we know." "Did this Phyllum Leader resent its pattern being used by an unauthorized Palenki?" "Not that we could see." "It was lying," McKie said. "How do you know?" "According to the Gowachin Juris-dictum, Phyllum Forgery is one of the eight Palenki capital offenses. And the Gowachin should know because they were assigned to educate the Palenkis in Acceptable Law when RR brought those one-armed turtles into the ConSent fold." Bildoon asked, "How come Legal didn't know that? I've had them researching this from the beginning." "Privileged legal datum," McKie said. "Inter-species courtesy and all that. You know how the Gowachin are about individual dignity, privacy, that sort of thing." "You'll be read out of their Court when they find out you spilled this," Bildoon said. "No. They'll just appoint me prosecutor for the next ten or so capital cases in their jurisdiction. If the prosecutor accepts a case and fails to get a conviction, he's the one they execute, you know." "And if you decline the cases?" "Depends on the case. I could draw anything from a one-totwenty sentence for some of them." "One-to -- you mean Standard Years?" "I don't mean minutes," McKie growled. "Then why'd you tell me?" "I want you to let me break this Phyllum Leader." "Break him? How?" "Have you any idea of how important the mystique of the arm is to the Palenki?" "Some idea. Why?" "Some idea," McKie muttered. "Back in the primitive days Palenkis made criminals eat their arms, then inhibited regrowth. Much loss of face -- but even greater injury to something very deep and emotional for the Palenkis." "You're not seriously suggesting -- " "Of course not." "Bildoon shuddered. "You humans have a basically bloodthirsty nature. Sometimes I think we don't understand you." "Where's this Palenki?" McKie asked. "What are you going to do?" "Question him. What did you think?" "After what you just said I wasn't sure." "Come off that, Bildoon. Hey, you." McKie gestured to a Wreave enforcer lieutenant. "Bring the Palenki in here." The enforcer glanced at Bildoon. "Do as he says," Bildoon said. The enforcer looped his mandibles uncertainly, but turned and IF left the room, signaling half a squad to attend him. T EN minutes later the Palenki Phyllum Leader was herded into Bildoon's office. McKie recognized the snake-weaving pattern on the Palenki's carapace, nodded to himself: Shipsong Phyllum, all right. Now that he saw it, he made the identification himself. The Palenki's multiple legs winked to a stop in front of McKie. The turtle face turned toward him expectantly. "Will you truly make me eat my arm?" it asked. McKie glanced accusingly at the Wreave lieutenant. "It asked what kind of human you were," the Wreave explained. "I'm glad you rendered such an accurate description," McKie said. He faced the Palenki. "What do you think?" "I think not possible, Ser McKie. Sentients no longer permit such barbarities." The turtle mouth rendered the words without emotion but the arm dangling to the right from its head-top juncture writhed with uncertainty. "I may do something worse," McKie said. "What is worse?" the Palenki asked. "We'll see, won't we? Now. You can account for every member of your Phyllum, is that what you claim?" "That is correct." "You're lying," McKie said, voice flat. "No." "What's your Phyllum name?" McKie asked. "I give that only to Phyllum brothers." "Or to the Gowachin," McKie said. "You are not Gowachin." In a flat splatting of Gowachin grunts, McKie began describing the Palenki's probable unsavory ancestry, its evil habits, possible punishments for its behavior. He concluded with the Gowachin identification-burst, the unique emotionword pattern by which he was required to identify himself before the Gowachin Bar. Presently the Palenki said, "You are the human they admitted to their Legal Concourse. I've heard about you." "What's your Phyllum name?" McKie demanded. "I am called Biredch of Ank," the Palenki said resignedly. "Well, Biredch of Ank, you're a liar." The arm writhed. "No." There was terror in the Palenki's manner now. It was a brand of fear McKie had been trained to recognize in his dealings through the Gowachin. He possessed the Palenki's privileged name -- he could demand the arm. "You have compounded a capital offense," McKie said. "No -- no -- no -- " "What the other sentients in this room don't realize," McKie said, "is that phyllum brothers accept gene surgery to affix the identity pattern on their carapaces. The index marks are grown into the shell. Isn't this true?" The Palenki remained silent. "It's true," McKie said. He noted that the enforcers had moved into a close ring around them, fascinated by this encounter. "You," McKie said, snapping an arm toward the Wreave lieutenant. "Get your men on their toes." "Toes?" "They should be watching every corner of this room," McKie said. "You want Abnethe to kill our witness?" Abashed, the lieutenant turned, barked orders to his squad. The enforcers already were at their shifty, turning, eye-darting inspection of the room. The Wreave lieutenant shook a mandible angrily, fell silent. McKie returned his attention to the Palenki. "Now, Biredch of Ank, I'm going to ask you some special questions. I already know the answers to some of them. If I catch you in one lie I'll consider a reversion to barbarism. Too much is at stake here. Do you understand me?" "Ser, you cannot believe that -- " "Which of your Phyllum mates did you sell into slave service with Mliss Abnethe?" McKie demanded. "Slaving is a capital offense," the Palenki breathed. "I've already said you were implicated in a capital offense," McKie said. "Answer the question." "You ask me to condemn myself?" "How much did she pay you?" "Who pay me what?" "How much did Abnethe pay you?" "For what?" "For your phyllum mates?" "What phyllum mates?" "That's the question," McKie said. "I want to know how many you sold, how much you were paid and where Abnethe took them." "You cannot be serious." "I'm recording this conversation," McKie said. "I'm going to call your United Phyllums Council presently, play the recording for them and suggest they deal with you." "They will laugh at you. What evidence could you -- " "I've your own guilty voice," McKie said. "We'll get a voicecorder analysis of everything you've said and submit it with the recording to your Council." "Voicecorder? What is this?" "It's a device that analyzes the subtle pitch and intonation of the voice to determine which stateIF ments are true and which are false." "I have never heard of it." "Damn few sentients know all the devices BuSab agents use," McKie said. "Now, I'm giving you one more chance. How many of your mates did you sell?" ' #, #TI#HY are you doing this to   me? What is so important about Abnethe that you should ignore every inter-species courtesy, deny me the rights of -- " "I'm trying to save your life," McKie said. "Now who is lying?" "Unless we find and stop Abnethe," McKie said, "damn near every sentient in our universe except a few newly hatched chicks will die. And they'll stand almost no chance without adult protection. You've my oath on it." "Is that a solemn oath?" "By the egg of my arm," McKie said. The Palenki moaned. "You know even this of the egg?" "I'm going to invoke your name and force you to swear by your most solemn oath in just one moment," McKie said. "I have sworn by my arm." "Not by the egg of your arm," McKie said. The Palenki lowered its head. The single arm writhed. "How many did you sell?" McKie asked. "Only forty-five." "Only forty-five?" "That's all -- I swear it." Glistening fear oils began oozing from the Palenki's eyes. "She offered so much and the chosen ones accepted freely. She promised unlimited eggs." "No breeding limit?" McKie asked. "How could that be?" The Palenki glanced fearfully at Bildoon, who sat hunched across the desk, face grim. "She would not explain other than to say she had found new worlds beyond the ConSent jurisdiction." "Where are those worlds?" McKie asked. "I don't know. This I swear by the egg of my arm -- I don't know." "How was the deal set up?" "There was a Pan Spechi." "What did he do?" "He offered my phyllum the profits from twenty worlds for one hundred standard years." Someone behind McKie whistled. "When and where did this transaction take place?" McKie asked. "In the home of my eggs only a year ago." "A hundred years' profits," McKie muttered. "A safe deal. You and your phyllum won't be around even a fraction that long if she succeeds in what she's planning." "I didn't know. I swear I didn't know. What is she doing?" McKie ignored the question. "Have you any clue at all as to where her worlds may be?" "I swear not," the Palenki said. "Bring your voicecorder. It will prove I speak the truth." "There's no such thing as a voicecorder for your species," McKie said. The Palenki stared at him a moment. Then: "May your eggs rot?" "Describe the Pan Spechi." "I withdraw my cooperation." "You're in too far now," McKie said, "and my deal's the only one in town." "Deal?" "If you cooperate, everyone in this room will forget your admissions of guilt." "More trickery -- " McKie looked at Bildoon. "I think we'd better call in the Palenki Council and give them the full report." "I think so," Bildoon agreed. "Wait," the Palenki said. "How do I know I can trust you?" "You don't," McKie said. "But I have no choice, is that what you say?" "That's what I say." "May your eggs rot if you betray me." "Every one of them," McKie agreed. "Describe your Pan Spechi." "He was ego-frozen," the Palenki said. "I saw the scars and he bragged of it to show that I could trust him." "Describe him." "One Pan Spechi looks much like another. I don't know -- but the scars were purple. I remember that." "Did he have a name?" "He was called Cheo." McKie glanced again at Bildoon. "The name signifies new meanings for old ideas," Bildoon said. "It's in one of our ancient dialects. Obviously an alias." McKie returned his attention to the Palenki. "What kind of agreement did he give you?" "Agreement?" "Contract -- surety. How did he insure the payoff?" "Oh. He appointed phyllum mates of my selection as managers on the chosen worlds." "Neat," McKie said. "Simple hiring agreements. Who could fault a deal like that or prove anything by it?" McKie brought out his toolkit, removed the holoscan, set it for projection and dialed the record he wanted. Presently the scan the Wreave enforcer had captured through the jumpdoor danced in the air near the Palenki. McKie turned the projection slowly full circle, giving the Palenki a chance to see the face from every angle. "Is that Cheo?" he asked. "The scars present the identical pattern. It is the same one." "That's a valid identification," McKie told Bildoon. "Palenkis IF can identify random line patterns better than any other species in the universe." "Our phyllum patterns are extremely complex," the Palenki boasted. "We know," McKie said. "What good does this do us?" Bildoon asked. "I wishI knew," McKie said. guing about the Time-regeneration theory, ignoring the squad of enforcers guarding them, although it was obvious their companions found the argument interesting. The theory was all over the Bureau by this time -- about six hours after the session with Biredch of Ank. It had about as many scoffers as it had supporters. At McKie's insistence they had taken over one of the inter-species training rooms, set up a datascan console and were trying to square Tuluk's theory with the subatomic alignment phenomenon discovered in the rawhide and other organic materials captured from Abnethe. Tuluk's thought was that the alignment might point toward some spatial vector, giving a clue to Abnethe's hideout. There must be some vector of focus in our dimension," Tuluk insisted. "Even if that's true -- what good would it do us?" McKie asked. "She's not in our dimension. I say we go back to the Caleban's -- " "You heard Bildoon. You don't go anywhere. We leave the Beachball to enforcers while we concentrate on -- " "But Fanny Mae's our only source of new data." "Fanny -- oh, yes, the Caleban." Tuluk was a pacer. He had staked out an oval route near the room's instruction focus, tucked his mandibles neatly into the lower fold of his facial slit and left only his eyes and breathing speech orifice exposed. The flexing bifurcation that served him as legs carried him around a chairdog occupied by McKie, thence to a point near a Laclac enforcer at one extreme of the instruction focus, thence back along a mixed line of enforcers who milled at a floattable on which McKie was doodling, thence around behind McKie and back over the same route. Bildoon entered, waved the pacing Wreave to a halt. "There's a mob of newspeople outside," he growled. "I don't know where they got the story but it's a good one. It can be described in a simple sentence: 'Calebans linked to threatened end of universe!' McKie, did you have anything to do with this?" "Abenethe," McKie said, not looking up from a complicated chalf doodle he was completing. "That's crazy." "I never said she was sane. You know how many news services, 'caster systems and other media she controls?" "Well -- certainly. But -- " "Is anybody linking her to this threat?" "No." "You don't find that strange?" "How could any of these people know she -- " "How could they not know about Abnethe's corner on Calebans?" McKie demanded. "Especially after talkihg to you." He stood up, hurled his chalf scribe to the floor, started up an aisle between rows of enforcers. "Wait," Bildoon snapped. "Where are you going?" "To tell them about Abnethe." "Are you out of your mind? That's all she needs to tie us up -- a slander and libel case." "We can demand her appearance as accuser," McKie said. "Should have thought about this earlier. We're not thinking straight. Perfect defense -- truth of accusation." Bildoon caught up with him and they moved up the aisle in a protective cordon of enforcers. Tuluk brought up the rear. "McKie," Tuluk called, "you observe an inhibition of thought processes?" "Wait'll I check your idea with Legal," Bildoon said. "You may have something -- " "Save it," McKie snapped. He stopped, turned to Bildoon. "How much more time do you figure we have?" "Who knows?" "Five minutes, maybe?" "Longer than that, surely." "But you don't know." "I have enforcers at the Caleban's -- well, they're keeping Abnethe's attacks to a min -- " "You don't want anything left to chance, right?" "Naturally." "Well, I'm going to tell those newsies out there the -- " "McKie, that female has her tentacles into unsuspected areas of government," Bildoon cautioned. "You've no idea. We've enough data to keep us busy for -- " "Some really important powers are in with her, eh?" "There's no doubt of it." "And that's why it's time we took the wraps off." "You'll create a panic." "We need a panic. A panic will set all sorts of sentients to trying to contact her -- friends, associates, enemies, lunatics. We'll be flooded with information. And we must develop new data." "What if these illegitimates -- " Bildoon nodded toward the outer door -- "refuse to believe you? They've heard you spout some pretty strange tales, McKie. What if they make fun of you?" before seen such ineffectual IF maundering in Bildoon, a sentient alytical adroitness. Was Bildoon one of those Abnethe had bought? Impossible. But the presence of an ego-frozen Pan Spechi in this situation must have set up enormous traumatic shock waves among that species. And Bildoon was due for ego-collapse soon. What really happened in the Pan Spechi psyche as the moment neared for them to revert to the mindless creche-breeder form? Did it ignite an emotional frenzy of rejection? Did it inhibit thought? In a voice pitched only for Bildoon's ears McKie asked: "Are you ready to step down as Chief of Bureau?" "Of course not." "We've known each other for a long time," McKie whispered. "I think we understand and respect each other. You wouldn't be in the king seat if I'd challenged you. You know that. Now -- one friend to another: Are you functioning as well as you should in this crisis?" Angry contortions fled across Bildoon' s face, were replaced by a thoughtful frown. McKie waited. When, it came the ego-shift would send Bildoon into shambling collapse. A new personality would step forth from Bildoon's creche, a sentient knowing everything Bildoon knew but profoundly different in emotional outlook. Had this present shock precipitated the crisis? McKie hoped not. He was genuinely fond of Bildoon. "What are you trying to do?" "I'm not trying to expose you to ridicule or speed up any -- natural process," McKie said. "But our present situation is too urgent. I'll challenge you for the Bureau directorship and throw everything into an uproar if you don't answer truthfully." "Am I functioning well?" Bildoon mused. He shook his head. "You know the answer to that as well as I do. But you've a few lapses to explain as well, McKie." "Haven't we all?" "That's it," Tuluk said, stepping close to them. He glanced from Bildoon to McKie. "Forgive me -- but we Wreaves have extremely acute hearing. I listened. But I must comment: The shock waves -- or whatever we wish to call them -- which accompanied the departure of the Calebans and left behind such death and insanity that we must buffer ourselves with an geret and other -- " "So our thought processes are mucked up," Bildoon said. "More than that," Tuluk said. "These vast occurrences have left reverberations. The news media will not laugh at McKie. All sentients grasp at , answers to the strange unrest we sense. 'Periodic Sentient Madness,' it's called and explanations are being sought every -- " "We're wasting time," McKie said. "What would you have us do?" Bildoon asked. "Several things," McKie said. "First, I want Steadyon quarantined, no access to the Beautybarbers of any kind, no movement on or off the planet." "That's madness. What reason could we give?" "When does BuSab have to give reasons?" McKie asked. "We have a duty to slow the processes of government." "You know what a delicate line we walk, McKie." "The second thing," McKie said, unperturbed, "will be to invoke our emergency clause with the Taprisiots, get notification of every call made by every suspected friend or associate of Abnethe's." take over," Bildoon breathed. "If this gets out there'll be rebellion, physical violence. You know how jealously most sentients guard their privacy. Besides, the emergency clause wasn't designed for this. It's an identification and delay procedure within normal -- " "If we don't do this we'll die -- and the Taprisiots with us," McKie said. "That should be made clear operation." "I don't know if I can convince them," Bildoon protested. "You'll have to try." "But what good will these actions do us?" "Taprisiots and Beautybarbers all operate in some way similar to the Calebans but without as much -- power," McKie said. "I'm convinced of that. They're all tapping the same power source with varying effectiveness." "Then what happens when we shut down the Beautybarbers?" "Abnethe won't go very long without them." "She probably has her own platoons of Beautybarbers." "But Steadyon is their touchstone. Quarantine it and I think Beautybarber activity will stop everywhere." Bildoon looked at Tuluk. "Taprisiots understand more than they've indicated about connectives," Tuluk said. "I think they will listen to you if you point out that our last remaining Caleban is about to enter ultimate discontinuity. I think they'll realize the significance of this." "Explain the significance to me, if you don't mind. If Taprisiots can use these -- these -- They must know how to avoid the disaster." "Has anybody asked them?" "Beautybarbers. Taprisiots," Bildoon muttered. "What else do you have in mind?" "I'm going back to the Beachball," McKie said. "We can't protect you as well there." IF "I know." "That room's too small. If the Caleban would come to -- " "She won't move. I've asked." Bildoon sighed as a human might have. The Pan Spechi had absorbed more than shape when they had decided to copy the human pattern. The differences, though, were profound, and McKie reminded himself of this. Humans could only see dimly into Pan Spechi thoughts. With crechereversion imminent for this proud sentient -- what was he truly thinking? A creche mate would come forth presently, a new personality with all the Bildoon creche's millennial accumulation of data. McKie pursed his lips, inhaled, blew out. How did Pan Spechi transfer that data from one unit to another? They were always linked, they said, ego holder and creche mates, dormant and active, slavering flesheater and thinking esthete. Linked? How? "Do you understand connectives?" McKie asked, staring into Bildoon's faceted eyes. "I see the way your thoughts wander." "Well?" "Perhaps we Pan Spechi share this power," Bildoon said. "But if so, the sharing is entirely unconscious. I will say no more. You come close to invasion of creche privacy." McKie nodded. Creche privacy was the ultimate defensive citadel of Pan Spechi existence. They would kill to defend it. No logic or reason could prevent the automatic reaction once it was igniled. Bildoon had displayed great friendship in issuing his warning. "We're desperate," McKie said. "I agree," Bildoon said, overtones of profound dignity in his voice. "You may proceed as you've indicated." "Thanks,"'McKie said. "It's on your head, McKie," Bildoon added. "Provided I can keep my head," McKie said. He opened the outer door onto a clamor of newspeople. They were being held back by a harried line of enforcers and it occurred to McKie, grasping this scene in its first impact, that all those involved in this turmoil were vulnerable. ing on the morning-lighted palisades above the Beachball when McKie arrived. News traveled fast, he thought. Extra squads of enforcers, called in anticipation of this mob scene, held back sentients trying to get to the cliff's edge, barred access to the lava shelf. Aircraft of many kinds were being blocked by a screen of BuSab fliers. McKie, standing near the Beachball, looked up at the hectic activity. The morning wind carried a fine mist of sea spray against his cheek. He had taken a jumpdoor to Furuneo's headquarters, left instructions there and used a Bureau flier for the short trip to the lava shelf. The Beachball's port remained open, he noted. Mixed squads of enforcers milled about in a confused pattern around the Ball, alert to every quarter of their surroundings. Picked enforcers watched through the port where others shared their uneasy guardianship. It was quite early in Cordiality's day here but real-time relationships confused such arbitrary time systems. It was night at Central's headqurters, evening at the Taprisiot Council Building where Bildoon must still be arguing -- and only Immutable Space knew what time it was where Abnethe had her base of operations. Later than any of them think... McKie shouldered his way through the enforcers, got a boost up through the port and surveyed the familiar purple gloom inside the Beachball. It was noticeably warmer in here out of the wind and spray but not as warm as McKie remembered the place. "Has the Caleban been talking?" McKie asked a Laclac, one of the enforcers guarding the interior. "I don't call it talking but the answer is -- not recently." "Fanny Mae," McKie said. Silence. "You still there, Fanny Mae?" McKie asked. McKie? You invoke presence , McKie? McKie felt he'd registered the words on his eyeballs and relayed them to his hearing centers. The communication was definitely weaker than he remembered. "How many floggings has she undergone in the past day?" McKie asked the Laclac. "Local day?" the Laclac asked. "What difference does it make?" "I presumed you were asking for accurate data." "I'm trying to find out if she's been under attack recently," McKie said. "She sounds weaker than when I was here before." He stared toward the giant spoon where the Caleban maintained her unpresence. "Attacks have been intermittent and sporadic but not very successful," the Laclac said. "We've collected more whips and Palenki arms, although I understand they're not being successfully transmitted to the lab." McKie invokes presence oj Caleban self called Fanny Mae? the Caleban asked. "I greet you, Fanny Mae," McKie said. You possess new connective entanglements , McKie, bilt the pattern oj you retains recognition. I greet you, McKie. "Does your contract with Abnethe still lead us all toward ultiIF mate discontinuity?" McKie asked. Intensity of nearness , the Caleban said. My employer wishes speech with you. "Abnethe? She wants to talk to me?" Correct. "She could have called me any time," McKie said. Abnethe conveys request through self of me. She asks relay along anticipated connective. This connective you perceive under label of " Now . " You hang this?" "I hang it," McKie growled. "So let her talk." Abnethe requires you send companions from presence. McKie demanded, "What makes her think I'd do such a thing?" It was getting hotter in the Beachball. He wiped perspiration from his upper lip. Abnethe speaks of sentient motive called curiosity. "I've my own conditions for a conference," McKie said. "Tell her I won't agree unless I'm assured she'll make no attack on you or on me during our talk." I give such assurance. "You give it?" Probability in Abnethe assurance appears incomplete. Approximate descriptive. Assurance by self runs intense , strong. Direct? Perhaps. "Why do you give this assurance?" Employer Abnethe indicates strong desire for talk. Contract covers such -- catering? Very close term. Catering. "You guarantee our safety, is that it?" Intense assurance, no more. "No attack during our talk," McKie insisted. Thus propels connective , the Caleban said. Behind McKie the Laclac enforcer grunted, said, "Do you understand that gibberish?" "Take your squad and get out of here," McKie said. "Ser, my orders -- " "Deface your orders! I'm acting under the cartouche of Saboteur Extraordinary with full discretion from the Bureau Chief himself. Get out." "Ser," the Laclac said, "during the most recent flogging nine enforcers went mad here despite ingestion of angeret and various other chemicals we believed would protect us. I cannot be responsible for -- " "You'll be responsible for a tide station on the nearest desert planet if you don't obey me at once," McKie said. "I will see you packed off to boredom after an official trial." "I will not heed your threats, Ser," the Laclac said. "However, I will consult Bildoon himself if you so order." "Consult then, and hurry it. There's a Taprisiot outside." "Very well." The Laclac saluted, crawled out. His companions in the Beachball continued their restive watch. They were brave sentients, all of them, McKie thought, to continue this duty in face of the known peril. Presently, the Laclac reappeared in the port, said. "Ser, I am instructed to obey your orders but to remain outside in visual contact with you, returning to this place at the first sign of trouble." "If that's the best we can do, that's it," McKie said. "Get moving." I N A moment McKie found himself alone with the Caleban. The sense that every place in this room lay behind him persisted. His spine itched. He felt increasingly that he was taking too much of a risk. But there was the desperation of their position. "Where's Abnethe?" McKie asked. "I thought she wanted to talk." A jumpdoor opened abruptly to the left of the Caleban's spoon. Abnethe' s head and shoulders appeared in it, all subtly pink-hazed by the slowdown of energy within that portal. The light was sufficient, though, for McKie to see subtle changes in Abnethe's appearance. He was gratified to note a harried look to her. Wisps of hair escaped her tight coiffure. Bloodshot veins could be detected in her eyes. Her forehead was wrinkled. She needed her Beautybarbers. "Are you ready to give yourself up?" McKie asked. "That's a stupid question," she said. "You're alone at my command." "Not quite alone," McKie said. A sly smile formed on Abnethe's lips. "You'll note that Fanny Mae has closed the exterior port of her residence." McKie shot a glance to his left, saw that the port was closed. Treachery? "Fanny Mae, you promised -- " No attack , the Caleban said. Privacy. McKie imagined the consternation in the enforcers outside right now. But they would never be able to break into the Beachball. He saved his protests, swallowed. The room remained utterly still. "Privacy, then," he agreed. "That's better," Abnethe said. "We must reach agreement, McKie. You're becoming somewhat of a nuisance." "Oh, more than a nuisance, certainly." "Perhaps." "Your Palenki, the one who was going to chop me up -- I found him a nuisance, too. Maybe even more than a nuisance. Now that I think about it, I recall that I suffered." Abnethe shuddered. "By the way," McKie said, "we IF know where you are." "You lie -- " "Not really. You see, you're not where you think you are, Mliss. You think you've gone back in Time. You haven't." "You lie, I say!" "I have it pretty well figured out. The place where you are was constructed from your connectives -- your memories, dreams, wishes -- perhaps even from things you expressly described." "What nonsense -- " "You asked for a place that would be safe from the apocalypse," McKie said. "Fanny Mae warned you about ultimate discontinuity, of course. She probably demonstrated some of her powers, showed you various places available to you along the connectives of you and your associates. That's when you got your big idea." "You're guessing," Abnethe said. Her face was grim. McKie smiled. "You could stand a little session with your Beautybarbers," he said. "You're looking a bit seedy, Mliss." She scowled. "Are they refusing to work for you?" McKie persisted. "They'll come around." "When?" "When they see they've no alternative." "Perhaps." "We're wasting time, McKie." "That's true. What was it you wanted to say to me?" "We must make an agreement, McKie. Just the two of us." "You'll marry me, is that it?" "That's your price?" "I'm not sure," McKie said. "What about Cheo?" "Cheo begins to bore me." "That worries me," McKie said. "I ask myself -- how long before I bore you?" "I realize you're not being sincere," she said, "that you're stalling. I think, however, we can reach agreement." "What makes you think so?" "Fanny Mae suggested it." McKie peered at the shimmering unpresence of the Caleban. "Fanny Mae suggested it?" he murmured. And he thought: Fanny Mae determines her own brand of reality from what she sees of these mysterious connectives. Refined differences -- connectives -- tangled connectives -- a special perception tailored to her particular energy consumption... head. He rocked forward, sensing that he stood on the brink of a revelation. "Do you still love me, Fanny Mae?" he asked. Abnethe's eyes went wide with surprise. "What?" Affinity awareness , the Caleban said. Love equates with this coherence  possess of you, McKie. "How do you savor my singletrack existence?" McKie asked. Intense affinity, the Caleban said. Product of sincerity of attempts at communication. Iself Caleban love you human-person, McKie. Abnethe glared at McKie. "I came here to discuss a mutual problem, McKie," she flared. "I did not anticipate standing aside for a gibberish session between you and this stupid Caleban." Self not in stupor, the Caleban said. "McKie." Abnethe's voice was low. "I came to suggest a proposition of mutual benefit. Join me. I don't care what capacity you choose. The rewards will be more than you could possibly -- " "You don't even suspect what's happened to you," McKie said. "That's the strange thing." "Damn you, I could make an emperor out of you." "Don't you realize where Fanny Mae has hidden you?" McKie asked. "Don't you recognize this safe -- " "Mliss!" An angry voice came from somewhere behind Abnethe. The speaker was not visible to McKie. "Is that you, Cheo?" McKie called. "Do you know where you are, Cheo? A Pan Spechi must suspect the truth." A hand came into view, yanked Abnethe aside. The ego-frozen Pan Spechi took her place in the jumpdoor opening. "You're much too clever, McKie," Cheo said. "How dare you, Cheo!" Abnethe screamed. Cheo whirled, swung an arm. There was the sound of flesh hitting flesh, a stifled scream, another blow. Cheo bent away from the opening, came back into view. "You've been in that place before, haven't you, Cheo?" McKie asked. "Weren't you a mewling, empty-minded female in the creche at one period of your existence?" "Much too clever," Cheo snarled. "You'll have to kill her, you know," McKie said. "If you don't, it'll all be for nothing. She'll digest you. She'll take over your ego. She'll be you." "I didn't know this happened with humans," Cheo said. "Oh, it happens," McKie said. "That's her world, isn't it, Cheo?" "Her world," Cheo agreed. "But you're mistaken about one thing, McKie. I can control Mliss. So it's my world, isn't it? And another thing -- I can control you." The jumpdoor's vortal tube suddenly grew smaller, darted at McKie. McKie dodged aside, shouted, "Fanny Mae -- " New connectives, the Caleban said. IF McKie executed a sprawling dive across the room as the jumpdoor appeared beside him. It nipped into existence and out like a ravening mouth, narrowly missing McKie. He twisted, leaped -- dodged panting through the Beachball's purple gloom, rolled finally under the giant spoon, peered right and left. He shuddered. He hadn't realized a jumpdoor could be moved around so rapidly. "Fanny Mae," he rasped, "shut off the S'eye, close it down. You promised -- no attack!" No response. McKie glimpsed an edge of the vortal tube hovering just beyond the spoon bowl. "McKie." Cheo's voice. "They'll call you long distance in a minute. When they do. I'll have you." McKie stilled a fit of trembling. They would call him. Bildoon probably had summoned a Taprisiot already. They would be worrying about him -- and he would be helpless in the grip of the call. "Fanny Mae," McKie yelled. "Close that damn' S'eye." The vortal tube glittered, shifted up and around to come at him from the side. Cursing, McKie rolled into a ball, kicked backward and over onto his knees, leaped to his feet and flung himself across the spoon handle, scrambled back under it. The searching tube moved away. A low crackling came, deepened to thunder. He glanced right, left, back over his head. There was no sign of the deadly opening. Something snapped sharply above the spoon bowl. A shower of green sparks cascaded around McKie. He rolled, brought up his raygen. A Palenki arm and whip had been thrust through the jumpdoor's opening. It was raised to deliver another blow against the Caleban. McKie sprayed the raygen's beam across the arm as the whip moved. Arm and whip grazed the far edge of the spoon, brought another shower of sparks. The jumpdoor winked out of existence. image of the sparks still dancing on his retinas. Now he recalled what he had been trying to remember since watching Tuluk's experiment with the steel. S' eye removed, Fanny Mae said. Fanny Mae's voice fell on McKie's forehead, seemed to seep inward to his speech centers. She sounded weak.  Slowly McKie lifted himself to his feet. The Palenki arm and whip lay on the floor. He ignored them. Shower of sparks... McKie felt strange emotions washing through him, around him. He felt happily angry, satiated with frustrations, words and phrases tumbling through his mind like pinwheels. That perverted offspring of an indecent union... Shower of sparks -- shower of sparks... He knew he had to hold that thought and his sanity no matter what the surgiiTg waves of emotion from Fanny Mae did to him. Shower of -- shower -- Was Fanny Mae dying? "Fanny Mae?" The Caleban remained silent but the emotional onslaught eased. McKie knew there was something he had to remember. It concerned Tuluk. He had to tell Tuluk. Shower of sparks... He had it then. The pattern that identifies the maker -- a shower of sparks... He felt he'd been running for hours, that his nerves were bruised and tangled. His mind was a bowl of jelly. Thoughts quivered through it. His brain was going to melt and run away like a stream of colored fluid. It would spray out of him in a shower. Shower of -- of -- sparks... He called, "Fanny Mae?" A peculiar silence rippled through the Beachball. It was an emotionless silence, something shut off, removed. It made McKie's skin prickle. "Answer me, Fanny Mae," he said. S'eye absents itself, the Caleban said. McKie felt shame, a deep and possessive sense of guilt. It flowed over him and through him, filled every cell -- dirty, muddy, sinful, shameful. He shook his head. Why should he feel guilt? Ah. Realization came over him. The emotion came from outside him -- from Fanny Mae. "Fanny Mae," he said, "I understand you could not prevent that attack. I don't blame you. I understand." Surprise connectives, the Caleban said. You overstand. "I understand." Overstand? Term for intensity of knowledge? Realization? "Realization, yes." Calmness returned to McKie. It was the calmness of something being withdrawn. Again he reminded himself that he had a vital message forTuluk. Shower of sparks. But first he had to be certain that mad Pan Spechi was not going to return momentarily. "Fanny Mae," he said, "can you prevent their from using the Scye?" Ohstru , rive, not preventive, the Caleban said. "You mean you can slow them down?" Explain slow. "Oh, no McKie moaned. He cast around in his mind for a Caleban way to phrase his question. How would I anny Mae say it? "The next attack, will it be on a short connective or long one?" Attack series breaks here. You inquire of duration by your time sense.  overstand this. Long line across attack nodes -- this equates with more intense duration for your time sense. "Intense duration," McKie muttered. "Yeah." Shower of sparks... You signify employment of S' eye by Cheo, the Caleban said. Spacing extends at this place. Cheo goes farther down your track. I overstand intensely for McKie. Yes? Farther down my track, McKie thought. He gulped as realization hit him. What had Fanny Mae said earlier? See us to the door! I am S' eye! He breathed softly lest sudden motion dislodge this brutal clarity of understanding. Overstanding. He thought of energy requirements. Fnormous. I am S'eye! and: Self energy by being stellar mass! To do what they did in this dimension Caleban's required the energy of a stellar mass. She inhaled the whip. She said it herself they sought energy here. The Calebans fed in this dimension. McKie considered the refined discrimination Fanny Mae must possess even to attempt communication with him. It would be as though he immersed his mouth in water and tried to talk to a single micro-organism there. IF "We have to go right back to the beginning," he said. Many beginnings exist for each entity , the Caleban said. McKie sighed. Sighing, he was seized by a Taprisiot contact. Bildoon. "I'm glad you waited," McKie said, cutting off Bildoon's first anxious inquiries. "Here's what I want you to -- " "McKie, what's going on there?" Bildoon insisted. "There are dead enforcers all around you, madmen, a riot -- " "I seem to be immune," McKie said, "or else Fanny Mae is protecting me some way. Now listen to me. We don't have much time. Get Tuluk. He has a device for identifying the patterns that originate in the stress of creation. He's to bring that device here -- right here to the Beachball. And fast." the Beachball McKie leaned against a curved wall, sipped icewater from a fhermocup. He watched Tuluk set up the needed instruments. "What's to prevent our being attacked while we work?" Tuluk asked. He rolled a glowing loop on a squat stand into position near the Caleban's unpresence. "You should have let Bildoon send in some guards." "Like those who were foaming at the mouth outside?" "There's a fresh crew outside there now." Tuluk did something that made the glowing loop double its diameter. "They'd only get in the way," McKie said. "Besides, Fanny Mae says the spacing isn't right for Abnethe." He sipped ice water. The Ball had achieved something approaching sauna temperature but without the humidity. "Spacing," Tuluk said. "Is that why Abnethe keeps missing you?" He produced a black wand from his instrument case. The wand was about a meter long. He adjusted a knob on its handle and the glowing loop contracted. The squat stand beneath the loop began to hum -- an itch-producing middle-C. "They miss me because I have a loving protector," McKie said. "It isn't every sentient who can say a Caleban loves him." "What is that you're drinking?" Tuluk asked. "Is that one of your mind disrupters?" "You're very funny," McKie said. "How much longer are you going to fiddle with that gear?" "I am not fiddling. Don't you realize this isn't portable equipment? It must be adjusted." "So adjust." "The high temperature in here complicates my readings," Tuluk complained. "Why can't we have the port open?" "For the same reason I didn't let any guards in here. I'll take my chances without having them complicated by a mob of insane sentients getting in my way." "But must it be this hot?" "Can't be helped," McKie said. "Fanny Mae and I have been talking, working things out." "Talking?" "Flot air," McKie said. "Ah, you make a joke." "It can happen to anyone,'' McKie said. "I keep asking myself if what we see as a star is all of a Caleban of just part of one. I opt for part." He drank deeply of the ice water, discovered there was no more ice in it. Tuluk was right. It was damnably hot in here. "That's a strange theory," Tuluk said. He silenced the humming of his instrument case. In the abrupt stillness, something else in the case could be heard ticking. It was not a peaceful sound. It had the feeling of a timing device affixed to a bomb. It counted moments in a deadly race. "There," Tuluk said. "You ready?" McKie asked. "I will be ready presently. Why does the Caleban not speak?" "Because I asked her to save her strength." "What does she say of your theory?" "She thinks I have achieved truth." Tuluk took a small helix from his instrument case, inserted it into a receptacle at the base of the glowing ring. "Come on, come on," McKie jittered. "Your urgings will not reduce the necessary time for this task," Tuluk said. "For example, I am hungry. I came without stopping to break my daily fast. This does not press me to a speed that might produce errors, nor does it arouse me to complaint." "Aren't you complaining?" McKie asked. "You want some of my water?" "I had water two days ago," Tuluk said. "And we wouldn't want to rush you ito another drink." "I do not understand what pattern you hope to identify," Tuluk said. "We have no records of artisans for a Comparison of -- " "This is something God made," McKie said. "You should not jest about deities," Tuluk said. "Are you a believer or just playing safe?" McKie asked. "I was chiding you for an act that might offend some sentients," Tuluk said. "We have a hard enough time bridging the sentient barriers without raising religious issues." "Well, we've been spying on God -- or whatever -- for a long time," McKie said. "That's why we're going to get a spectroscopic IF record of this. How much longer you going to be at this fiddling?" "Patience, patience," Tuluk muttered. He reactivated the wand, waved it near the glowing ring. Again, the instrument began humming, a higher note this time. It grated on McKie's nerves. He felt it in his teeth and along the skin of his shoulders. It itched inside him where he couldn't scratch. "Damn this heat!" Tuluk said. "Why will you not have the Caleban open a door to thfe outside?" "I told you why." "Well, it doesn't make this task any easier!" "You know," McKie said, "when you called me and saved my skin from that Palenki chopper -- the first time, remember? Right afterward you said you'd been tangled with Fanny Mae and you said a very odd thing. "Oh?" Tuluk had extended a small mandible and was making delicate adjustments to a knob on the case below the glowing ring. "You said something about not knowing that was where you lived s Remember that?" "I will never forget it." Tuluk bent his tubular body across the glowing ring, stared back through it while passing the. wand back and forth in front of the ring's opening. "Where was that?" McKie asked. "Where was what?" "Where you lived." "That? There are no words to describe it." "Try." Tuluk straightened, glanced at McKie. "It was a bit like being a mote in a vast sea and experiencing the warmth, the friendship of a benign giant." "That giant the Caleban?" "Of course." "That's what I thought." "I will not answer for inaccuracies in this device," Tuluk said. "But I don't believe I can adjust it any closer. Given a few days, some shielding -- there's an odd radiation pattern from that wall behind you and projection dampers, I mijght, I just might achieve a fair degree of accuracy. Now? I cannot be responsible." "And you'll be able to get a spectroscopic record?" "Oh, yes." "Then maybe we're in time," McKie said. "For what? I " "For the right spacing." , "Ah, you mean the flogging and the subsequent shower of sparks?" "That's what I mean." "You could not flog her yourself, gently?" "Fanny Mae says that wouldn't work. It has to be done with violence and the intent to create intensity of anti-love or it won't work." "Oh. How odd. You know, McKie, I believe I could use some of your water after all. It's the heat in here." a stopper being pulled from a bottle. Air pressure dropped slightly in the Beachball and McKie experienced the panic notion that Abnethe had somehow opened them onto a vacuum that would drain away their air and kill them. The physicists said this couldn't be done, that the gas flow, impeded by the adjustment barrier within the jumpdoor, would block the opening with its own collision breakdown. McKie suspected, though, that the physicists did not know everything they pretended to know about S'eye phenomena. He missed the jumpdoor's vortal tube at first. Its plane was horizontal and directly above the Caleban's spoon bowl. A Palenki arm and whip shot through the opening, delivered a lashing blow to the area occupied by the Caleban's unpresence. Green sparks showered the air. Tuluk, bending over his instruments, muttered excitedly. The Palenki arm drew back, hesitated. "Again -- again." The voice through the jumpdoor was unmistakably that of Cheo. The Palenki delivered another blow and another. McKie lifted his raygen, dividing his attention between Tuluk and that punishing whip. Did Tuluk have his readings? No telling how much more of this the Caleban could survive. Again the whip lashed. Green sparks glimmered and fell. "Tuluk, do you have enough data?" McKie demanded. Arm and whip jerked back through the jumpdoor. A curious silence settled over the room. "Tuluk?" McKie hissed. "I believe I have it," Tuluk said. "It's a good recording. I will not vouch for comparison and identification, however." McKie grew aware that the room wasn't really silent. The thrumming of Tuluk's instruments formed a background for a murmur of voices coming through the jumpdoor. "Abnethe?" McKie called. The opening tipped, gave him a three-quarter view of Abnethe' s face. There was a purple bruise from her left temple down across her cheek. A silver noose held her throat, its end firmly in the grip of a Pan Spechi hand. Abnethe, McKie saw, was trying to control a rage which threatened to burst her veins. Her face was alternately pale and flushed. She held her mouth tight, lips in a thin line. Compressed violence radiated from very pore. She saw McKie. "See what you've done?" she shrieked. McKie pushed himself away IF from the wall, fascinated. He approached the jumpdoor. "What I did? That looks more like Cheo's handiwork." "It's all your fault." "Oh? That was clever of me." "I tried to be reasonable," she rasped. "I tried to help you, save you. But no -- you treated me like a criminal. This is the thanks I got from you." She gestured at the noose around her throat. "What did I do to deserve this?" "Cheo's voice came from a point beyond the arm gripping the noose. "Tell him, Mliss." Tuluk, who had been ignoring the exchange, busying himself with his instruments, turned to McKie. "Remarkable," he said. "Truly remarkable." "Tell him." Cheo insisted as Abnethe held a stubborn silence. Both Abnethe and Tuluk began talking at once. It came through to McKie as a mixed jumble of noises. "Youinterstellferederhydrowithgenlawmassfulexecufrom -- " "Shut up!" McKie shouted. Abnethe jerked back, shocked to silence, but Tuluk went right on: " and that makes it quite certain there's no mistaking the spectral absorption pattern. It's a star, all right. Nothing else would give us the same picture." "But which star?" McKie asked. "Ahh, that's the question," Tuluk said. Cheo pushed Abnethe aside, took her place in the jumpdoor. He glanced at Tuluk, at the instruments. "What's all this, McKie? Another way to interfere with our Palenkis? Or did you come back for a new game of ring around your neck?" "We've discovered something you might like to know," McKie said. "What could you discover that would possibly interest me?" "Tell him, Tuluk," McKie said. "Fanny Mae exists somehow in intimate association with a stellar mass," Tuluk said. "She may even be a stellar mass -- at least as far as our dimension is concerned." Not dimension, the Caleban said. Wave. H ER voice barely reached McKie's awareness but the words were accompanied by a rolling surge of misery that rocked him and set Tuluk to shuddering. "Wha-wha-what w-w-was th-ththat?" Tuluk managed. "Easy, easy," McKie cautioned. He saw that Cheo had not been touched by that sea of emotion. At least, the Pan Spechi remained impassive. "We'll have Fanny Mae identified shortly," McKie said. Identity . the Caleban said, her communication coming through with more strength but with an icy withdrawal for emotion, refers to unique self-understanding quality as it deals with selflabel, selfabode and self-manifestations. You not me hang yet, McKie. You hang term yet ? Self-I overstand your Time node. "Hang?" Cheo asked, jerking the noose around Abnethe's neck. "A simple old-fashioned idiom," McKie said. "I imagine Mliss gets the hang of it." "What are you talking about?" Cheo asked. Tuluk took the question as having been directed to him. "In some way," he said, "Calebans manifest themselves in our universe as stars. Every star has a pulse, a certain unique rhythm, a never-duplicated identity. We have Fanny Mae's pattern recorded now. We're going to run a tracer on that pattern and try to identify her as a star." "A stupid theory like that is supposed to interest me?" Cheo demanded. "It had better interest you," McKie said. "It's more than a theory now. You think you're sitting in a safe hidey-hole. All you have to do is eliminate Fanny Mae -- that's supposed to eliminate our universe and leave you out there the only sentients anywhere? Is that it?" "Calebans don't lie," Cheo snarled. "But I think they can make mistakes," McKie said. Proliferation of single-tracks, the Caleban said. McKie shuddered at the icy wave that accompanied the words. "If we discontinue, will Abnethe and her friends still exist?" he asked. Different patterns with short limit on extended connectives, the Caleban said. McKie felt the ice invade his stomach. He saw that Tuluk was trembling, facial slit opening and closing. "That was plain enough, wasn't it?" McKie asked. "You'll change somehow and you won't live very long after us." No branchings, the Caleban said. "No offspring," McKie translated. "This is a trick," Cheo snarled. "She's lying." "Caleban's don't lie," McKie reminded him. "But they can make mistakes." "The right kind of mistake could ruin everything for you," McKie said. "I'll take my chances," Cheo said. "And you can take -- " The jumpdoo winked out of existence. x " S'eye alignment difficult, the Caleban said. You hang difficult? More intense energy requirement reference. You hang? "I understand," McKie said. He mopped his forehead with a sleeve. Tuluk extended his long mandible, waved it agitatedly. IF "Cold," he said. "Cold-coldcold-cold." "I think she's holding on by a thin thread," McKie said. Tuluk's torso rippled as he inhaled deeply into his outer trio of lungs. "Shall we take our records back to the lab?" he asked. "A stellar mass," McKie muttered. "Imagine it. And all we see here is this -- this bit of nothing." Not put something here, the Caleban said. Self-I put something here and uncreate you. McKie discontinues in presence of I-self. "Do you hang that, Tuluk?" McKie asked. "Hang? Oh, yes. She seems to be saying that she can't make herself visible to us because that'd kill us." "That's the way I read it," McKie said. "Let's get back and start that comparison search." You expend substance without purpose, theCaleban said. "What now?" McKie asked. Flogging approaches and I-self discontinue. McKie put down a fit of trembling. "How far away, Fanny Mae?" Time reference by single-track difficult, McKie. Your term -- soon. "Right away?" McKie asked and held his breath. Ask you of intensity immediate? "Probably," McKie whispered. Probability, the Caleban said. Energy necessity of selfI extends alignment. Flogging not -- immediate. "Soon, but not right away," Tuluk said. "She's telling us she can take one more flogging and that's the last one," McKie said. "Let's move. Fanny Mae, is there a jumpdoor available to us?" "Available, McKie. Go with love." One more flogging, McKie thought as he helped Tuluk gather up the instruments. Buy why was a flogging so deadly to the Caleban? Why a flogging when other energy forms apparently didn't touch them? ment -- and that soon -- the Caleban was going to be lashed by a whip and it would die. The halfmad possibility was about to become apocalyptic reality and the sentient universe would end. McKie stood disconsolately in Tuluk's personal lab, intensely aware of the mob of enforcer guards around them. Go with love. The computer console above Tuluk's position at the bench flickered and chittered. Even if Tuluk identified Fanny Mae's star -- what could be done with the new knowledge? "Is it possible," Tuluk asked, "that the Calebans created this universe? Is this their garden patch? I keep remembering Fanny Mae saying it would uncreate us to be in her presence." He leaned against his bench, mandibles withdrawn, face slit open just enough to permit him to speak. "Why's the damn computer taking so long?" McKie demanded. "The pulse problem's very complicated, McKie. The comparison required special programing. You haven't answered my question." "I don't have an answer. I hope those numbies we left in the Beachball know what to do." "They'll do what you told them to do," Tuluk chided. "You're a strange sentient, McKie. I'm told you've been married more than fifty times. Is it a breach of good manners to discuss this?" "I never found a woman who could put up with a Saboteur Extraordinary," McKie muttered. "We're hard creatures to love." "Yet the Caleban loves you." "She doesn't know what we mean by love." He shook his head. "I should've stayed at the Beachball." "Our people will interpose their own bodies between the Caleban and any attack," Tuluk said. "Would you call that love?" "That's self-preservation," McKie snarled. "It's a Wreave belief that all love is a form of self-preservation," Tuluk said. "Perhaps this is what our Caleban understands." "Hah!" "It's a probability, McKie, that you've never been overly concerned about self-preservation, thus have never really loved." "Look -- would you stop trying to distract me with your babbling nonsense?" "Patience, McKie. Patience." "Patience, he says." McKie jerked himself into motion, paced the length of the lab, the guardian enforcers dodging out of his way. He returned to Tuluk, stopped. "What do stars feed on?" "Stars? Stars don't feed." "She inhales something here and she feeds here," McKie muttered. He nodded. "Hydrogen." "What's this?" "Hydrogen," McKie repeated. "If we opened a big enough jumpdoor -- Where's Bildoon?" "He's conferring with the ConSent representatives over our highhanded actions in quarantining the Beautybarbers. It's also a distinct possibility that our dealings with the Taprisiots have leaked out. Governments do not like this sort of action, McKie. Bildoon is trying to save your skin and his own." "But there's plenty of hydrogen," McKie said. "What is this of jumpdoors and hydrogen?" "Feed a cold and starve a fever," McKie said. "You are not making sense, IF McKie. Did you take your angeret and normalizes?" "I took them." The computer's readout chamber made a chewing sound, spewed forth a quadruple line of glowing characters that danced in the chamber and resolved themselves into legible arrangements. McKie read the message. "Thyone," Tuluk said, reading over his shoulder. "A star in the Pleiades," McKie said. "We call it Drnlle," Tuluk said. "See the Wreave characters in the third row? Drnlle." "Any doubt of this identification?" "You joke." "Bildoon," McKie hissed. "We have to try it." He spun around, pounded out of the lab, dodged through Tuluk's assistants in the outer area. Tuluk darted in his wake, drawing their enforcer guardians into a thin line close behind. "McKie," Tuluk called. "Where are you going?" "To Bildoon -- then back to Fanny Mae." N othing could stop him now, Cheo told himself. Mliss would die in a few minutes, deprived of air in the Beautybarber tank where he had confined her. The others on their refuge world would then have to follow him. He would control the S'eye and the threads of power. Cheo stood in his quarters, the S'eye controls near athand. It was night outside but all things remained relative, he reminded himself. Dawn would be breaking soon where the Caleban's Beachball rested above the surf on Cordiality. The Caleban's ultimate dawn -- the dawn of ultimate discontinuity. That dawn would slip into eternal night on all the planets that shared a universe with the doomed Caleban. In just a few minutes, this planet-of-the-past where he stood would reach its point of proper connectives with Cordiality. And the Palenki waiting across the room there would do what it had been commanded to do. Cheo rubbed the scars on his forehead. There would be no more Pan Spechi to point accusing fingers at him, to call him with ghostly voices. Never again would there be a threat to the ego he had secured to himself. No one could stop him. Mliss could never come back from death to stop him. She must be gasping in the sealed tank by now, straining for oxygen that did not exist. And McKie. The Saboteur Extraordinary had proved to be elusive and annoying but no way remained for him to stop the apocalypse. Just a few more minutes now. Cheo looked at the reference dials on the S'eye controls. They moved so slowly it was difficult to detect any change while you kept your eyes on them. But they moved. He crossed to the doors opening to the balcony, drew a questioning stare from the Palenki and stepped outside. There was ho moon but many stars shone in patterns alien to a Pan Spechi. Mliss had ordered a strange world here with its bits of ancient history from her Terran past, its odds and ends of esoterica culled from the ages. Those stars, now. The Caleban had assured them no other planets existed here -- yet there were stars. If those were stars. Perhaps they were only bits of glowing gas arranged in patterns Mliss had requested. This would be a lonely place after the other universe was gone, Cheo realized. And there would be no escaping those starry patterns, reminders of Mliss. But he would be safe here from pursuit -- because there would be no pursuers. He glanced back into the lighted room. How patiently the Palenki waited, eyes lidded, motionless. The whip dangled limply from its single hand. Crazy anachronism of a weapon -- but it worked. Without that wild conjunction of Mliss and her kinky desires they would never have discovered the thing about the weapon, never have found this world and the way to isolate it forever. Cheo savored the thought of forever. That was a very long time. Too long, perhaps. The thought disturbed him. Loneliness forever. He cut off these thoughts, looked once more at the S'eye dials. The pointers had moved a hair closer to the curtained moment. They would coincide presently. Not looking at the pointers, not looking anywhere, really, Cheo waited. Night on the balcony was full of the odors Mliss had gathered -- exotic blooms, scents and musks of rare life forms, exhalations of myriad species she had brought to share her Ark. Ark. That was an odd name she'd given this place. Perhaps he would change that -- later. Creche? No. The word carried painful reminders. Why were there no other planets? Surely the Caleban could have provided other planets. But Mliss had not ordered them created. Only the thinnest of lines separated the pointers on the S'eye dials. Cheo went back into the room, called the Palenki. The squat turtle shape stirred itself to action, came to Cheo's side. The thing looked eager. Palenkis enjoyed violence." IF Cheo felt suddenly empty but there was no turning back. He put his hands to the controls -- humanoid hands. They, too, would remind m of Mliss. He turned a knob. It felt oddly alien to his touch but he stifled all uneasiness, all regrets, concentrated on the pointers. They flowed into each other and he opened the jumpdoor. "Now," he commanded. shouted command as the jumpdoor's vortal tube leaped into existence within the Beachball. The opening dominated the room, filled the purple gloom with bright light. The light came from behind two figures revealed by the opening -- a Palenki and the Pan Spechi, Cheo. The vortal tube began swelling to dangerous dimensions within the confined room. Wild energies around its rim hurled enforcer guardians aside. Before they could recover, the Palenki arm thrust into the room, lashed out with its whip. McKie gasped at the shower of green and golden sparks around the Caleban. Golden! Again the whip struck. More sparks glittered, fell, shimmered into nothingness. "Hold!" McKie shouted as the enforcers recovered and moved to attack. He wanted no more casualties from a closing jumpdoor. The enforcers hesitated. Once more the Palenki lashed out with its whip. Sparks glowed, fell. "Fanny Mae," McKie called. I reply, the Caleban said. McKie felt the abrupt rise in temperature but the emotion accompanying the words was calm, soothing -- and powerful. The enforcers jittered, their attention darting from McKie to the area where the Palenki arm continued its vicious play with the whip. Each stroke sent a shower of golden sparks into the room. "Tell me of your substance, Fanny Mae," McKie said. My substance grows, the Caleban said. You bring me energy and goodness. I return love for love and love for hate. You give me strength for this, McKie. "Tell me of discontinuity," McKie said. Discontinuity withdraws! A definite elation was in the Caleban's words. I do not see node of connectives for discontinuity. My companions shall return in love. McKie inhaled a deep breath. It was working. But each new flow of Caleban words brought its blast from the furnace. That, too, spoke of success. He mopped his forehead. The whip continued to rise and fall. "Give up, Cheo," McKie called. "You've lost." He peered up through the jumpdoor. "We're feeding her faster than you can rob her of substance." Cheo barked an order to the Palenki. Arm and whip withdrew. "Fanny Mae," the Pan Spechi called. There was no answer but McKie sensed a wave of pity. Did she pity Cheo? "I command you to answer me, Caleban," Cheo called "Your contract orders you to obey." I obey holder of contract only, the Caleban said. You share no connectives with holder of con tract. "She ordered you to obey me." McKie held his breath, watchIF ing, waiting for his moment to act. When Fanny Mae summoned AbIt must be done with precision, nethe a sacrifice must be made. The Caleban had been lucidly clear Abnethe had to die and her world about that -- for once... There could would die with her. be little doubt of the communica"Your contract," Cheo insisted, tion. Contract declines of intensity , Abnethe gathers lines of her the Caleban said. On this new world into herself '. track you must address me as That was what Fanny Mae had Thyone. Name of love I receive said and the meaning seemed clear, from AlcKie -- Thyone. "McKie, what have you done?" Cheo demanded. He poised his fingers over the S'eye controls. "Why doesn't she respond to the whipping?" "She nerer really did respond to a whipping," McKie said. "She responded to the violence and the hate that went with it. And that took a lot of energy. She's almost pure emotion, you know. That's how the universe goes, Cheo." Where was Abnethe? Cheo motioned to the Palenki, hesitated as McKie said, "It's no use, Cheo. We're feeding her faster than you can drain her." "Feeding her?" Cheo bent his scarred head forward to peer at McKie. "We've opened a giant jumpdoor in space," McKie said. "It's gathering free hydrogen and feeding it directly into Thyone." "What is this -- this Thyone?" Cheo demanded. "The star that is a Caleban," McKie said. "What are you talking about?" "Haven't you guessed?" He gave a subtle hand signal to the enforcers. Abnethe still had not shown up. Perhaps Cieo had confined her somewhere. That changed things to the contingency plan. They were going to have to iry getting a sentient through the jumpdoor. The enforcers, responding to his signal, began moving closer to the opening. Each held a raygen. "Guessed what?" Cheo asked.  have to keep him distracted , McKie thought. "Calebans manifest themselves in mir universe several ways," he said. "They're stars, suns -- which may really be feeding orifices. They created these Beachballs -- which are probably intended as much to protect us as they are to house the speaking manifestation. Even with the Beachball's damping force they can't hold back all the radiant energy of their speech. That's why it gets so hot in here." McKie glanced at his ring of enforcers. They were moving closer and closer to the jumpdoor. "Stars?" Cheo asked. "This particular Caleban has been identified," McKie said. "She's Thyone in the Pleiades." "But -- the S'eye effect -- " "Star-eyes," McKie said. "At least, that's how I interpret it. I'm probably only partly right, but Thyone here admits she and her kind suspected the truth during their first attempts at communication." Cheo moved his head slowly from side to side. "Thejumpdoors -- " "Star-powered," McKie said. "We've known from the first they required stellar energies to breach space that way. The Taprisiots gave us a clue when they spoke of imbedments and crossing Caleban connectives to -- " "You talk nonsense," Cheo IF growled. "Is it not nonsense?" "Undoubtedly," McKie agreed. "But it's a nonsense that moves reality in our universe." "You think you'll distract me while your companions prepare to attack," Cheo said. "I will now show you another reality in your universe." He twisted the jumpdoor controls. "Thyone," McKie shouted. The jumpdoor's opening began moving toward McKie. I reply to McKie, the Caleban said. Cheo discontinues connectives. The jumpdoor continued moving toward McKie but he saw that Cheo appeared to be having trouble with the controls. McKie moved aside as the opening passed through the space where he had been. "Stop him," McKie called. Cheo stops himself, the Caleban said. McKie sensed a definite wave of compassion with the words. The jumpdoor opening turned on its axis, advanced once more on McKie. It moved a bit faster this time. McKie dodged aside, scattering enforcers. Why weren't the damned fools trying to get through the opening? Afraid of being cut up? He steeled himself to dive through the opening on the next pass. Cheo had been conditioned to the thought of fear now. He wouldn't expect attack from someone who feared him. McKie swallowed in a dry throat. He knew what would happen to him. The molasses delay in the vortal tube would give Cheo just enough time. McKie would lose both legs -- at the very least. He'd get through with a raygen, though, and Cheo would die. Given any luck, Abnethe could be found -- and she would die, too. Again the jumpdoor plunged toward McKie. He leaped, collided with an enforcer who had chosen the same instant to attack. They sprawled on hands and knees as the vortal tube slipped over them. McKie saw Cheo's gloating face, the hand jerking at the controls. He saw a control arm snap over, heard a distant crackling as the jumpdoor ceased to exist. Someone screamed. McKie felt himself considerably surprised to be still on hands and knees in the purple gloom of the Beachball's interior. He held his position, allowed his memory to replay that last glimpse of Cheo. It'd been a ghostly vision, smoky substance visible through the Pan Spechi's body -- and the visible substance had been that of the Beachball's interior. Discontinuity dissolves contract, the Caleban said. McKie climbed slowly to his feet. "What does that mean, Thyone?" Statement of fact with meaning intensity-truth only for Cheo and . companions, the Caleban said. Self cannot give meaning to Me Kie for substance of another. McKie nodded. "That universe of Abnethe's was her own creation," he murmured. "A figment of her imagination." Explain figment , the Caleban said. of Abnethe's death as a gradual dissolution of substance around and within him. Walls, floor, S'eye controls, ceiling, world -- everything faded into nonbeing. He felt all the haste of his existence swollen into one sterile instant. And he found himself for a transitory moment sharing with the shadows of the nearby Palenki and other more distant islands of movement a place of existence which the mystics of his own species had never contemplated. It was, however, a place which an ancient Hindu or a Buddhist might have recognized -- a place of Maya, illusion, a formless void possessed of no qualities. The moment passed abruptly and Cheo ceased to exist. Or it could be said that he discontinued in becoming one with the voidillusion. One cannot, after all, breathe an illusion or a void.  the Slatler Hilton, Boston, l or inlormation: Anthony Lewi'. # l n i t  Avenue, Belmont, Mass. #X.  March #-#, #. SI Con '#. t Hilton Inn. San Francisco Airport, California. Pro Guests ol Honor: Miriam Allen de lord and I . Hoi f man Priee. I an Ciuest of Honor: Felice Rolfe. Memberships: S#. # now, S# after January #st, S# at the door. For information: Quinn Yarhro, # Colusa # #, Berkeley, Calif. #.  Hotel Dyckman, Minneapolis. Speakers: Clifford D. Simak, Gordon R. Dickson, Charles DeVet. Lin Carter. Membership: S#. For information: Steve Popper, #S# Glenhurst Avenue, St. Louis Park, Minnesota #.  pin. Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: S#. lor information and registration Devra IF Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York I #.  the Skyline Inn, South Capitol and "Eye" Streets, S.W. Washington, D.C. #. Guest-of-honor: Will (Murray Leinster) Jenkins. For information: Jay Haldeman, # Woodbourne Avenue, Baltimore, Md.  At the Skirvin Hotel, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Guests: Jim Harmon, R.A. Lafferty. Membership: #. For information: David Smith, # Mercer Street, Ponca City Oklahoma #I .  Delany, Harlan Ellison, Damon Knight, Fritz Leiber, Kate Wilhelm. Participants may register for two, four or six weeks. For information: Robin Scott Wilson, English Department, Clarion State College, Clarion, Pa.  California. Guest of Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest of Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California #. Chatham Center Motor Lodge, Center Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Guest-of-Honor: Harlan Ellison; GoH Emeritus: Robert Silverberg. Features: Panels, parties, movies, banquet. Membership: # in advance; # at the door. For information: Suzanne Tompkins, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #.  Memberships: Supporting, #; Atgia #.  aton Hotel, Toronto, Canada. Guestsof-Honor: Anne McCalffrey, Isaac Asimov. Membership: # in advance. For information: Peter Gill, # Glen Manor Drive, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.  AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. The accent of this con will be an international one, with fans and pros coming from all over the world. Guests-of Tubb (England) and Dr. Herbert W. Franke (Germany). Toastmaster: LesGermany. ( Continued from page # ) tury. It's a huge book, huge enough to justify the price of #. And to anyone except the most incurable completist, it should serve as an excellent sampling. There are # daily strips included, as well as a full-color section with # of the Sunday episodes. This represents almost four years of daily reading and a year and a quarter of the Sunday features. In addition, there is a spate of supplemental material. The editor, Robert C. Dille, tells how his father suggested the idea of the comic strip to writer Phil Nowlan and brought Dick Calkins in as illustrator. Ray Bradbury adds further history, along with a nostalgic appreciation. And to make everything clear, Nowlan and Calkins give a summary of everything they conceived for the #th Century. At the end of the book, the first script for the radio serial is presented, together with promotional material. Quite properly, the early years receive the most attention in the book. Almost all the strips from the first year arc included, together with all major episodes through #. Then there is a # transition piece, followed by samples of he work from # on, after the death of Nowlan: these are both written and drawn by Calkins. The full-color section (awkwardly stuck in the middle of the first year of daily strips) shows the art of Rick Yager, first with Nowlan's writing and then with his own. And what does it all add up to? This is a difficult question. I suspect part of the answer depends on how much the reader remembers of the strip and of the period. In any event, response is sure to vary from fascination to shocked annoyance. It's a mixed bag, and by no means what my memory of it made me expect. Of course, it's totally unfair to read a comic strip in book format. It was plotted and drawn to be read with each tiny section separated by a full day from the next. Cramming a year of strips in a few hours inevitably exaggerates any faults and ruins the pacing. Episodes that use the same trick situation -- such as some band of cowboys, Indians or gangsters left over into the #th Century -- become boringly repetitive on quick reading, though I cannot remember noticing this when the strip and I were both young. And the off-again-on-agpin love story was really not so silly when spread over months of reading, I'm sure. It may also seem unfair to approach the work with a mind attuned to a world forty years beyond the publishing traditions of its creation. But on this, I feel time may actually aid critical insight, and the later reading may well be thegenuinely fair one. Some of the crudities in the strip can never be forgiven. They probIF ably reflect an attitude common among readers in # -- so common as to be taken for granted without question -- but the attitude was still wrong. Here the book serves as a valuable historical reminder of how we got into some of our current men, but hardly as a beacon to guide our steps out of the errors oj our past. vision of the future. The Mongols are the villains originally. They are simply evil and vile, while Americans are mostly brave and noble (aside from Killer Kane, who sold out to the Mongols). Buck, as a man from the pure # American tradition, is naturally even more of a good guy than anyone else, but all native white Americans tend to pretty noble. And later, when we meet races from other worlds, we find that they also lack the nobility inherent in being American and White and Two-Fisted and Pure beyond any shred of self-doubt. In fact, most are so dratted pure that there is hardly a touch of individual character to them. One can only wonder how much influence such work might hac had on the jingoism that led us to intern our Japanese during World War II. And how many of our soldiers in Korea looked at the men they chose to call "Gooks" with attitudes colored by such antioriental feeling as one finds here? It may be that the attitude was already thoroughly imbued, and the comic strips were only a symptom; but certainly reinforcing such ideas could not have helped any. In some ways the art shows this distortion even more than the story material. The Asiatics are presented as stereotypes of the Yellow Menace. Every face must sneer, all canines must be too long, most faces must be adorned with long drooping mustaches (this was at a time when facial hair wasn't worn Even in the later strips, the Martians are recognizably evil. They are pock-marked, have faces pitted with acne, or show some other such unfailing sign of evil. The art, incidentally, does improve as time goes on. At the beginning, it was crude even for the period. The pictures of Buck and Wilma, Black Barney and Doctor Huer that we have in our mind must be from the Sunday features draw n by Rick Yager, which gradually influence the daily strip; certainly the earty black-and-w bites show' little resemblance to the characters I thought I remembered. All of this explains the shocked annoyance I mentioned. Yet there is also the undeniable fascination, though it is harder to understand. There is a flow of inventiveness in the earlier strips that makes up for much of the crudit). The devices shown for later science still seem fairly convincing (though the ideas of rocket speeds and orbits were ridiculous even in #). And there's a curious pleasure in watching the earliest crudeness smooth out gradually into a welloiled machine with set characters and a reliable set of plot devices, familiar yet still fun. It's a hard book to put down, and one well worth the price. Yet it has nothing to do with the history of science fiction. Once upon a time it took off from a common background of travel to the future and then travel through space. But from the earliest days, its character was not at all that which science fiction was developing. Buck Rogers was exactly what it was meant to be -- a comic strip. It was only science fiction in the sense that Jungle Jim was adventure fiction or Mandrake was fantasy. Flash Gordon's adventures were far closer to science fiction, and even Ally Oop often came much closer to our field. To see how far from real science fiction the strip was, we must go back to its origin as Philip Francis Nowlan conceived it. This, of course, occurred in a novelette published in Amazing Stories for # and entitled "The Airlords of Han" -- illustrated by Frank R. Paul. Fortunately, we can make the comparison. Nowlan's story and its sequel are again available in soft-cover edition -- Armageddon # (Ace, #c). If you are planning to buy or borrow the Chelsea House book, by all means invest in the Ace volume as well. Here things are alike only at the very beginning. Donald Wollheim indicates in a brief introduction that the plot of the strip follows the plot of Nowlan's original novelettes fairly closely during the first two years, but I Suspect it is his memory rather than his research speaking; my memory indicated the same until I had a chance to reread the comic strips. In the novelettes the name of the character is Anthony Rogers, but otherwise the initial situation is the same as the strip, including the meeting with Wilma Deering. In other respects, however, there is only the most vague and general similarity. The book is primitive science fiction, but it is unmistakably science fiction. Nowlan as a writer immediately began to .build a world. Here are none of the stereotype groups -- the cowboys and Indians who have stayed the same, but more so, for five hundred years. Instead he sets up a complex social system of rule among small organizations designed to make survival possible in a world overrun by the Han -- a seemingly Mongol people who have conquered the world and now exist in great cities, with the rural sections left to the survivors of the original population. He also sets up an extensive technology and social system for the Hans. Much of the handling is crude. IF Characters are wooden and not always believable -- as the Boss who voluntarily steps down with a cheer so Rogers can take over. There is a regrettable tendency for important action to occur while Tony Rogers is off-stage or for it to be merely summarized. And our old friend the Yellow Menace is apparent in the Han Empire. However, in this original Nowlan version, the Yellow Menace is not nearly so pat. The Han Emperor, in fact, must be considered a highly civilized and cultured man. He keeps Tony prisoner but without needless cruelty. In fact, he is probably the best drawn and most likable character in the book. It is made clear that the Han are a special mutation that occurred in one tiny section of Mongolia, not typical of Asiatics; and it is even hinted that they may not be Earth humans at all. t the end, Nowlan must have been aware of the trap he had worked himself into, since he tries to throw out the racial implication v This fails to overcome the racial bias of the book. But it's at lea't a token gesture, marking the road that science fiction was just starting to travel and which led to the realization that to be alien or different was not inherently to be evil. Science fiction eventually moved further away than any other bod) of literature from the concept that it is wrong to be different. Unfortunately, the change never occurred in the comic strip, underlying the lack of tie between it and genuine science fiction. Pavanne, by Keith Roberts (Ace Special, #c), also is a book made from novelettes previously published. But that is the only point of similarity between it and Nowlan's book. This is perhaps the most completely sophisticated book of science fiction I have read. In fact, I was not sure it was science fiction until I reached the last few pages. It was difficult at first to be sure it was not pure fantasythen it seemed to be speculative fiction about a what-if world -- and then it really did not matter. The basic idea is a world somewhat like ours but in which the history has gone differently . Elizabeth I was assassinated in #, and the results changed all history, most particularly that of the Church of Rome. This is covered succinctly in a page of  lologue, but it takes the whole book to make those changes fully apparent. To round out the picture, we are led through a strange love affair to the circles of civil power, of castled lords and ladies, where a woman who seems to tie everything together must make her gallant battle against the darker forces slowly emerging i n to our view in this world. We learn with her to despair of things as they are here and to strive for an otherwise we cannot have. And in the end, everything is stood on its head, turned upside down, and handed back to us with the key to the whole pictured world. It is as marvelously subtle an explanation as I've yet seen in any piece of writing. Every element is there, and yet it demands the utmost of the reader to rebuild the world he thought he had come to know into what and why it is. And, of course, in the end it is science fiction -- because it has used every ethic and resource of science fiction and most of the background science-fictioneers have spent decades developing. Still, there remains one episode that simply cannot be made to fit. There is a story -- the second "chapter" in the book -- of one of the signalers. By itself, it is one of the best bits to be found in the whole structure. Yet there is no way of accounting for it except to call it pure fantasy. As fantasy, it's fine. But the end "Got to going." "Jinx on jolly, Golly, Holly!" "Were it other, Bug, my brother!" "Holly crying. Sing her flying, Jugging, shouting." "Going outing." Now this was remarkable. Holly Harkel was crying when we came out of that burrow for the of the book with its implications about the girl involved with the signaler simply do not fit with the end of the story. I suspect that this episode was written as a magazine piece before the final shape of Roberts' world had grown clear in his mind. As it stands, the book demands two mutually conflicting abilities on the part of the reader. He must be able to read this isolated episode with a careless mind, letting the general picture soak in but most of the details vanish. For the rest of the book, and particularly for the final episodes, he must be ing attention to the writer, skip nothing and think things through precisely. If you want to try putting yourself through such a tricky course, this is a splendid book. If not, at least watch for more by Keith Roberts, who is writer of extraordinary promise.  ( Continued from page # ) (as it happened) last time. She was crying great goblin tears. I almost expected them to be green. amazingly the late Holly Harkel had come to look like the Shelni finally. She was a Shelni. "It is all the same with me now," she said this morning. "Would it be love if they should go and I should stay?" IF It is a sticky business. I tried to complain but those people were still ringing that bell and chanting, "All you little Pig-ShelniSingers come jump on the cart. Ride a tin can to Earth! Hey, Ben, look at them jump on the slaughter wagon!" "It was inexcusable," I said. "Surely you could tell a human from a Shelni." "Not that one," said a bellringer. "I tell you they all jumped funny-looking one who was crying. Sure, you can have her bones, if you can tell which ones they are." f have.Holly's bones. That is all. There was never a creature like her. And now it is over with. But it is not over! Singing Pig Breakfast Food Company, beware! There will be vengeance! It has been told.  by then he knew. He found Cappio's blood-smeared utility knife in a crevice of Cappio' s acceleration couch. Had Cappio possessed the iron resolve necessary to thrust it there in the few seconds before he bled to death? Or had it merely been a lucky break for him? Now there was no way of knowing. If it hadn't been for the hatch, Gibson thought, it would have worked. He'd have taken us with him. As it was, it hatf worked. Dead Cappio could not have the one good suit. Gibson would need it himself on Mars. He took Cappio out of it and put him into his own suit, sealing the leak as well as he could with tape from the aid kit. The odor persisted somehow, perhaps from the jammed disposer. Gibson used the auxiliary chemical toilet for his own wastes but it was too small to be of use ( Continued from page # ) in disposing of the bodies. As Mars grew huge in the observation port he cleaned every crevice of the couches and checked and rechecked the joints of the suits, using his nose as well as his eyes and trying not to look through the transparent face shields at Lorenz and Cappio. The landing was smooth, much smoother than Gibson had anticipated, and the rotation of the capsule had matched the Martian gravity so well that he found it difficult to detect any change. A pull of the emergency lever opened the hatch with a sharp detonation. Stiffly he climbed out and saw walking toward him the Moonbase psychologist. Dr. Mann spread his palms and said, "When I clap you will remember that this flight is only a simulation." Then he smelled Gibson.  Readers write -- and wrong! Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I am sorry that Mr. M B. Tepper in his letter to Worlds of If was not serious enough to understand my article about K. E. Tsiolkovsky ( K. E. T. ) and I am asking you kindly to publish the following elucidations. #. K.E.T. did not owe any of his philosophy to the Communist Revolution in Russia. He was born on Sept. #, #, in a provincial family of an overly modest, patriarchal character and at the time of Revolution (#) he was already # years old. #. Because of the idealistic character of his philosophy, many of his works were officially forbidden, ard after the publication of his Monism of the Universe his secretary was fired by Soviet Government. K.E.T. was himself arrested once and put into a Moscow prison for a short time -- he did not like to mention the episode in his conversations and correspondence. #. It needs to be understood that, in Russia especially, there exist usually two kinds of emigrants: the outer (exo-) emigrants who left Russia for other countries, and the inner (endo-) emigrants who remain in their fatherland and did not go abroad. As most of intellectuals, K.E.T. was a typical endo-emigrant. The endo-emigrants are usually the most silent people in relation to the internal governmental policy. Stalin was especially suspicious of taciturn people. Some " silent people ," for safety's sake, occasionally praised governmental enactments in order to appear to the authorities as "non-Party Bolsheviks ." Tsiolkovsky never did this -- also he never was a member of the Communist Party. He never praised communism and nothing of that ideology exists in his writings. #. Mr. Tepper says in his letter that K.E.T. had an inferiority complex. This is also wrong. K.E.T. was deaf, however, and said that his deafness helped him to concentrate. In his famous, now classical work. Exploration of Space by Means of Reactive Apparatus, he says frankly that he was the first man who gave the complete theory of rockets and who proved the possibility of their use in the space flights. This is not the claim of a man suffering from an inferiority complex. #. To the end of his life K.E. T. won some popularity, not because of any special sympathy from the government but because the time itself was already ripe for the astronautic investigations. Most works by K.E.T. before # were printed in Kaluga, as author's editions, in a provintial typography where the typesettings for higher mathmatics were absent. #. Certainly many points about the multitude of inhabited worlds in K.E.T.' s Monism of the Universe seem now obvious. However, he wrote them at a time when the works of de Fontenelle, C. Flammarion and those of other astronomers and philosophers were forgotten, at a time whenJ. Jeans even wrote that the presence of humanity on the Earth is an unique fact in the whole Universe. A. Tsvetikov PaloAlto, Cal. IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art. Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your i W six . v iu. pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Leigh Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. #-I from Moldaug. inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidjj with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# S-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# S-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and damned before it was even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-#A the Planet of the Flowers, Dr. Freda Caron's fiance Paul has sent her an exquisite iridescent yellow tulip that not only has a plastic memorybut can talk. Freda realizes that she must unlock the secrets of the flower planet and its strange hold on Paul. In this exciting new book, Freda must travel from her ultra-rational world-oftomorrow to explore the strange, unearthly flower planet. The climax of this shocking and oddly beautiful novel is bizarre and delightful. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-# an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich must make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# C. M. Kornbluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests, The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... # .# S-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longcr dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... # .# S-#A Asimov book... America's foremost science writer, takes you on a personalized guided tour of his first # books. This, his #th book, is an anthology of works selected by the author himself. It is a journey which acquaints the reader with a writer considered to be a genius, who delights in every aspect of life and has the capacity to make any subject he writes about both understandable and entertaining. Reviewers customarily greet Asimov publications with such adjectives as ling." Opus # is no exception. # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... #. # S-# Heinlein's Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... #. # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessary sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi#pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # .# P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Office, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name  address I have circled. SI S-# S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# Name Address City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) I got sick and tired of coughing and wheezing and hacking. So I quit. I quit smoking cigarettes. Which wasn't easy. I'd been a pack-a-day man for ( about # years. Still, I quit. And, after a while, I also quit coughing and wheezing and hacking. Now, the American Cancer Society offers every quitter an I.Q. button. To tell everyone you've got what it takes to say "I quit." And it takes plenty. I know from personal experience. I know something else. There is one thing tougher than quitting cigarettes. And that's not quitting. Get your I. Q. button from your local Unit of the American Cancer Society. for only whn you Join the Science Fiction Book Club end agree to accept only four book during the coming year Edited by Anthony Boucher #. A giant two-volume collection of great science fiction reeding. Over # pages of exciting fiction -- four full-length novels, twelve novelettes, eight short stories by Ray Bradbury. Robert A. Helnleln, A. E. van Vogt. Poul Anderson. Arthur C. Clarke. Theodore Sturgeon. Alfred Better, and a dozen more. Counts as I choice. Pub. ed. # counts as only a single choice! How the Club works: Each month it offers a really superb new science fact or fiction book at a fraction of its regular price. Even though these books sell for #, # and more in their original editions. Club members get them for only # each-in special full-length, hard-cover editions -- unless you select an extra-value book at slightly higher price. And the Club tells you in advance what each monthly selection will be. During your trial membership, you agree to take as few as four books in the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. No-Risk Guarantee: If not delighted with introductory #-book shipment, return books within # days to cancel membership. Otherwise you will be enrolled in the Club as a Trial Member. Mail coupon today to Science Fiction Book Club. Garden City, New York # Please accept my application for membership In the Science Fiction Book Club and rush the # books whose numbers I have circled below. Bill me only #. plus shipping and handling, for all #. Then every month, send me the Club's free bulletin. ' Things to Come", which describes coming selections. For each book I accept. I will pay only #, plus shipping and handling, unless I take an extravalue selection at a higher price. I need take only four books within the coming year and may resign at any time thereafter. delighted with my Introductory package. I may return It In # days, pay nothing, owe nothing, and my membership will be canceled. Cirelo tho numbers I of tho want: # books you Print NameCity. I L parent must sign here , I (Offer good In U.S.A. only) #-S#J #. Dancerous Visions. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon, Anderson, others. Pub. ed. # #. World's Best Science Fiction #. By Vonnegut. Jr... Sheckley, Delaney, Knight. Aldiss. and others. #. Nova, by Samuel R. Delaney. Battle between alien worlds -- and a desperate race to the sun. Pub. ed. # #. The Fnnco File, by Burt Cole. Gov't computer baffled by Deva love priestess! Pub. ed. # #. Stranger la a Strange Land, by Robert A. Heinlein. He knew the Martian love secretand it spelled his doom. Pub. ed. # #. I, Robot, by Isaac Asimov. Long out of print. "An enticing thriller." -- N. Y. Times Pub ed. # A# #. The Illustrated Man.Rav Bradbury I # stories. "Intensely real." N Y Times Now a hit movie' Pub ed # #J. #: A Space Odyssey by Arthur Clarke. # men and computer trigger cosmic "booby trap". Pub ed # #. The Foundation Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # A# #. Stand on Zaazibar, by John Brunner. Extrapolates today's soci#st Cen. a Pub. ed. I #. Last Starship From Earth by John Boyd. Young lovers flee loveless society ruled by #. # Conquests Poul Anderson. # wars in the future... nuclear... interplanetary. Can Earth survive? Pub ed # Printed in U.S.A.  Keith Laumer ' IT the magazine of alternatives A Michael #. Coney Robert Silverberg Avram Davidson "We want to test your writing aptitude" If you have ever wanted to write, here is your opportunity to find out if you have talent worth developing. Take this revealing Aptitude Test created by I # famous authors By Rod Serling If you want to write, my colleagues and I would like to test your writing aptitude. We'll help you find out if you have the talent it takes to become a successful writer. Several years ago, I joined together with Max Shulman, Faith Baldwin, Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, J. D. Ratcliff and several others to form the Famous Writers School. Our aim was to help qualified people acquire the skills they need to break into print. We poured everything we know about writing into a new kind of professional training course, which you take at home in your free time. After a solid grounding in the fundamentals of all good writing, you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice. Each of your writing assignments is examined by instructors who are themselves professional writers or editors. Your instructor goes over your work word by word, blue-penciling corrections right on it -- much as an editor does with established writers. Then he returns it to you with a long, personal letter of advice. This training works well. Our students Rod Serling, six-time Emmy Award winner, made TV writing an art form with Patterns, Requiem for a Heavyweight and Twilight Zone. He has also written many short stories and motion picture scripts. have sold their writing to hundreds of publications including and True. Free Aptitude Test offered To find out if you can benefit from this training, send for the School's free Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing ability you may enroll. But there is no obligation. Famous Writers School Dept. W-# Westport Connecticut # I want to know if I have writing aptitude worth developing. Please mail me, without obligation, your Aptitude Test and illustrated brochure. Mr. Mrs Age Miss Circle one and please print Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. May.June# Vol. #, No. # Utuo # Bjler Jakobsson, iditor Prderik Pohl, Pditor Cmeritus Judy-Lynn Beniamin, Managing Pditor Lester del Bey, Feature Pditor #. C. Murphy, Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director David Gerrold and Larry Niven # IF is published bimonthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #c per copy. #-issue subscription: S# in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N.Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright  # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books ( United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Readers write -- and wrong! walked through a door without bothering to see if it was open. But I got through and met the most delightful man on the other side. Here he is. Dear Ejler: Permit me to point out an error in your letter column in IF  # (Mar. #), p. #, where you say "the Caucasoids are vastly outnumbered." The current anthropological figures for the earth's population break down thus: Caucasoids #, Mongoloids #, Negroids #. The other races (Bushmen, Australoids, Polynesians, c.) not classifiable under any of those # heads total less than #. The Caucasoids, however, consist of about half "light" Caucasoids , e.g. Europeans, North Africans,  their descendants, and half "dark" Caucasoids from southern Asia, i.e. India and the adjacent lands. Some of these are pretty black, but in all traits other than pigmentation (hair, facial contours, blood groups, c.) they are just as Caucasoid as thou and #. Kqor, L. Sprague de Camp I cannot speak for thee but Fm at least as much Finn as Swedish and Finns (and Magyars) in most ethnological tables Fve seen are listed as Asians. Caucasoids, however, are defined as "resembling or allied to" Caucasians and I both resemble and am allied to. We're in an interesting area here. You can get into some heatedly erudite arguments in Finland about the Finno-Asian bit and at least one eleventh or twelfth-century European scholar (not Finnish) wrote extensively and proved at least to his own satisfaction that the Finns were one of the lost tribes of Israel. Columbia University Library stacks devote a shelf as long as a lifetime to the Finno-Hungarian language and migrations, which seemed to me an awful lot of bother. How much of established ethnology is a matter of semantics, arbitrary classification and occasional wishful thinking? The question -- and answer -- are honest: I really don't know. One tabulation I recently saw lists Latins as extinct but admits the existence of some "Latin-like" peoples. Blond but otherwise Negroid hair has shown persistence in Norway. Caused speculation that, as I remember, tried but never really got off the ground. Thanks for the correction. I was sloppy. Ejler Jakobsson, meet Ejler Jakobsson: In the November, #, Galaxy, Ejler Jakobsson, editor, writes, (p. #): "Any... adman knows that he can make a rose smell like a stink weed by giving it a new name. Let's stop polluting our brains . " In the same issue, p. #, the blurbwriter ( if not Jakobsson, Jakobsson is nonetheless accountable) writes: "Frank (Herbert is Higher Education editor for the Seattle Post-Intelligence. Or did he say Riot Editor?" Sure. Higher education... students... political action (demonstrations  such)... rioh  which chain of implications says something about the value judgments of the man who wrote that blurb. ) Pollution. Right on. Someone needs an emission-control device. peace, brother J.M. Graetz Cambridge, Mass. The passage you quote is from Galaxy Stars, not from a blurb, and the words are Frank Herbert's in a phone interview. What I wrote on the editor's page was complete on that page. I don't know from where you pulled in your series of implications. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I have met many people in Calgary who read science fiction. Several of the # persons resident here have expressed interest in a science fiction group, provided that such an organization already existed. To date such a group has not been formed. One reader pointed out, "Why have a science fiction society?" Indeed that is the problem. I would like to have a solution to it. When readers bump into each other at the bookstore they often have a very pleasant discussion of authors, books, favorite magazines, etc. It might be nice to hold these conversations at more regular intervals in better surroundings. It is possible for a large crowd to attend the first meeting. But what happens then? What do science fiction groups DO that would justify meeting once a month? What advantages would be gained by being a member? Is it really worthwhile to have a group like this? I would like to know since there must be some reasonable excuse to form a group in Calgary. If you have any suggestions concerning the creation and maintenance of this type of society I would be pleased to hear from you. I would appreciate it if you could also forward my request to anyone you believe could be of help. Please accept my thanks in advance for any ideas you have on the situation. Sincerely, Brian Hval Alberta, Canada Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Many thanks for the improvements in Galaxy and If, including the printing method and. the artwork. The quality of the stories has stayed the same, with the best recent one being "Half Past Human." The distribution of your magazines has greatly improved since the change of ownership. Originally, they arrived here from six to nine weeks late -- they  Please turn to page #) Only one girl on Earth could bring out the beast in these two men! I I AM a redemption project for her. She lives on my floor of the hotel, a dozen rooms down the hall: a lady poet, private income. No, that makes her sound too old, a middle-aged eccentric. Actually she is no more than thirty. Taller than I am, with long kinky brown hair and a sharp, bony nose that has a bump on the bridge. Eyes are very glossy. A studied raggedness about her dress -- carefully chosen shabby clothes. I am in no position really to judge the sexual attractiveness of Earthfolk but I gather from remarks made by men living here that she is not considered goodlooking. I pass her often on my way to my room. She smiles fiercely at me. Saying to herself, no doubt. You poor lonely man. Let me help you bear the burden of your unhappy life. Let me show you the meaning of love, for I, too, know what it is like to be alone... Or words to that ettect. She's never actually said any such thing. But her intentions are transparent. When she sees me a kind of hunger comes into her eyes, part maternal, part (I guess) sexual, and her face takes on a wild crazy intensity. Her name is Elizabeth Cooke. "Are you fond of poetry, Mr. Knecht?" she asked me this morning as we creaked upward together in the ancient elevator. An hour later she knocked at my door. "Something for you to read," she said. "I wrote them." A sheaf of large yellow sheets stapled at the top -- poems printed in smeary blue mimeography. The Reality Trip, the collection was headed. Limited Edition: # Copies. "You can keep it if you like," she explained. "I've got lots more." She was wearing bright corduroy slacks and a flimsy pink shawl through which her breasts plainly showed. Small tapering breasts, not very functional-looking. When she saw me studying them her nostrils flared momentarily and she blinked her eyes three times swiftly. Tokens of lust? I read the poems. Is it fair for me to offer judgment on them? Even though I've lived on this planet eleven of its years, even though my command of colloquial English is quite good, do I really comprehend the inner life of poetry? I thought they were all rather bad. Earnest, plodding poems, capturing what they call slices of life. The world around her, the cruel, brutal, unloving city. Lamenting the barriers between people. The title poem began: He was on the reality trip. Big black man, bloodshot eyes, bad teeth. Eisenhower jacket, frayed. Smell of cheap wine. I guess a knife in his pocket. Looked at me mean. Criminal record. Rape, child-beating, possession of drugs. In his head saying, slavemistress IF bitch, and me in my head saying, black brother, let's freak in together, let's trip on love -- And so forth. Warm, direct emotion -- but is the urge to love all wounded things a sufficient center for poetry? I don't know. I did put her poems through the scanner and transmit them to Homeworld, although I doubt they'll learn much from them about Earth. It would flatter Elizabeth to know that while she has few readers here, she has acquired some ninety lightyears away. But of course I can't tell her that. She came back a short while ago. "Did you like them?" she asked. "Very much. You have sympathy for those who suffer." I think she expected me to invite her in. I was careful not to look at her breasts this time. T he hotel is on West #rd Street. It must be over a hundred years old -- the facade is practically baroque and the interior shows a kind of genteel decay. The place has a bohemian tradition. Most of its guests are permanent residents and many of them are artists, novelists, playwrights and such. I have lived here nine years. I know a number of the residents by name and they me -- but I have discouraged any real intimacy, naturally, everyone has respected that choice. I do not invite others into my room. Sometimes I let myself be invited to visit theirs, since one of my responsibilities on this world is to get to know something of the way Earthfolk live and think. Elizabeth is the first to attempt to cross the invisible barrier of privacy I surround myself with. I'm not sure how I'll handle that. She moved in about three years ago. Her attentions became noticeable perhaps ten months back and for the last five or six weeks she's been a great nuisance. Some kind of confrontation is inevitable: either I must tell her to leave me alone, or I will find myself drawn into a situation impossible to tolerate. Perhaps she'll find someone else to feel 'even sorrier for, before it comes to that. My daily routine rarely varies. I rise at seven. First Feeding. Then I clean my skin (my outer one, the Earthskin, I mean) and dress. From eight to ten I transmit data to Homeworld. Then I go out for the morning field trip: talking to people, buying newspapers, often some library research. At one I return to my room. Second Feeding. I transmit data from two to five. Out again, perhaps to the theater, to a motion picture, to a political meeting. I must soak up the flavor of this planet. Often to saloons -- I am equipped for ingesting alcohol, though of course I must get rid of it before it has been in my body very long -- and I drink and listen and sometimes argue. At midnight back to my room. Third Feeding. Transmit data from one to four in the morning. Then three hours of sleep and at seven the cycle begins anew. It is a comforting schedule. I don't know how many agents Homeworld has on Earth but I like to think that I'm one of the most diligent and useful. I miss very little. I've done good service and, as they say here, hard work is its own reward. I won't deny that I hate the physical discomfort of it and frequently give way to real despair over my isolation from my own kind. Sometimes I even think of asking for a transfer to Homeworld. But what would become of me there? What services could I perform? I have shaped my life to one end: that of dwelling among the Earthfolk and reporting on their ways. If I give that up, I am nothing. ical pain. Which is considerable. The gravitational pull of Earth is almost twice that of Homeworld. It makes for a leaden life for me. My inner organs always sagging against the lower rijn of my carapace. My muscles cracking with strain. Every movement a willed effort. My heart in constant protest. In my eleven years I have, as one might expect, adapted somewhat to the conditions -- I have toughened, I have thickened. I suspect that if I were transported instantly to Homeworld now I would be quite giddy, baffled by the lightness of everything. I would leap and soar and stumble and might even miss this crushing pull of Earth. Yet I doubt that. I suffer here; at all times the weight oppresses me. Not to sound too self-pitying about it. I knew the conditions in advance. I was placed in simulated Earth gravity when I volunteered and was given a chance to withdraw and I decided to go anyway. Not realizing that a week under double gravity is not the same thing as a lifetime. I could always hav.e stepped out of the simulation chamber. Not here. The eternal drag on every molecule of me. The pressure. My flesh is always in mourning. And the outer body I must wear. This cunning disguise. Forever to be swaddled in thick masses of synthetic flesh, smothering me, engulfing me. The soft slippery slap of it against the self within. The elaborate framework that holds it erect, by which I make it move -- a forest of struts and braces and servoactuators and cables, in the midst of which I must unendingly huddle, atop my little platform in the gut. Adopting one or another of various uncomfortable positions, constantly shifting and squirming, now jabbing myself on some awkardly placed projection, now trying to make my inflexible body flexibly to bend. Seeing the world by periscope through meIF chanical eyes. Enwombed in this mountain of meat. It is a clever thing -- it must look convincingly human, since no one has ever doubted me and it ages ever so slightly from year to year, graying a bit at the temples, thickening a bit at the paunch. It walks. It talks. It takes in food and drink when it has to. (And deposits them in a removable pouch near my leftmost arm.) And I within it. The hidden chessplayer. The invisible rider. If I dared I would periodically strip myself of this cloak of flesh and crawl around my room in my own guise. But it is forbidden. Eleven years now and I have not been outside my protoplasmic housing. I feel sometimes that it has come to adhere to me, that it is by now a part of me. In order to eat I must unseal it at the middle, a process that takes many minutes. Three times a day I unbutton myself so that I can stuff the food concentrates into my true gullet. Faulty design, I call that. They could just as easily have arranged it so I could pop the food into my Earthmouth and have it land in my own digestive tract. I suppose the newer models have that. Excretion is just as troublesome for me -- I unseal, reach in, remove the cubes of waste, seal my skin again. Down the toilet with them. A nuisance. And the loneliness! To look at the stars and know Homeworld is out there somewhere! To think of all the others, mating, chanting, dividing, abstracting, while I live out my days in this crumbling hotel on an alien planet, tugged down by gravity and locked within a cramped counterfeit body -- always alone, always pretending that I am not what I am and that I am what I am not, spying, questioning, recording, reporting, coping with the misery of solitude, hunting for the comforts of philosopTiy. In all of this there is only one real consolation, aside, that is, from the pleasure of knowing that I am of service to Homeworld. The atmosphere of New York City grows grimier every year. The streets are full of crude vehicles belching undigested hydrocarbons. To the Earthfolk this stuff is pollution and they mutter worriedly about it. To me it is joy. It is the only touch of Homeworld here, that sweet soup of organic compounds adrift in the air. It intoxicates me. I walk down the street breathing deeply, sucking the good molecules through my false nostrils to my authentic lungs. The natives must think I'm insane. Tripping on auto exhaust! Can I get arrested for overenthusiastic public breathing? Will they pull me in for a mental checkup? IF Elizabeth Cooke continues to waft wistful attentions at me. Smiles in the hallway. Hopeful gleam of the eyes. "Perhaps we can have dinner together some night soon, Mr. Knecht. I know we'd have so much to talk about. And maybe you'd like to see the new poems I've been doing." She is trembling. Eyelids flickering tensely; head held rigid on long neck. I know she sometimes has men in her room, so it can't be out of loneliness or frustration that she's cultivating me. And I doubt that she's sexually attracted to my outer self. I believe I'm being accurate when I say that women don't consider me sexually magnetic. No, she loves me because she pities me. The sad, shy bachelor at the end of the hall, dear unhappy Mr. Knecht -- can I bring some brightness into his dreary life? And so forth. I think that's how it is. Will I be able to go on avoiding her? Perhaps I should move to another part of the city. But I've lived here for so long; I've grown accustomed to this hotel. Its easy ways do much to compensate for the hardships of my post. And my familiar room. The huge many-paned window; the cracked green floor tiles in the bathroom; the lumpy patterns of replastering on the wall above my bed. The high ceiling, the funny chandelier. Things that I love. But of course I can't let her try to start an affair with me. We are supposed to observe Earthfolk, not to get involved with them. Our disguise is not that difficult to penetrate at close range. I must keep her away somehow. Or flee. II of us in this very hotel. As I learned through accident. At one this afternoon, returning from my morning travels: Elizabeth in the lobby, as though lying in wait for me, chatting with the manager. Rides up with me in the elevator. Her eyes looking into mine. "Sometimes I think you're afraid of me," she begins. "You mustn't be. That's the great tragedy of human life -- people shut themselves up behind walls of fear and never let anyone through, anyone who might care about.them and be warm to them. You've got no reason to be afraid of me." I do but how to explain that to her? To sidestep prolonged conversation and possible entanglement I get off the elevator one floor below the right one. Let her think I'm visiting a friend. Or a mistress. I walk slowly down the hall to the stairs, using up time, waiting so she will be in her room before I go up. A maid bustles by me. She thrusts her key into a door on the left: a rare faux pas for the usually competent help here, she forgets to knock before going in to make up the room. The door opens and the occupant, inside, stands revealed. A stocky, muscular man, naked to the waist. "Oh, excuse me," the maid gasps and backs out, shutting the door. But I have seen. My eyes are quick. The hairy chest is split, a dark gash three inches wide and some eleven inches long, beginning between the nipples and going past the navel. Visible within is the black shiny surface of a Homewprld carapace. My countryman, opening up for Second Feeding. Dazed, numbed, I stagger to the stairs and pull myself step by leaden step to my floor. No sign of Elizabeth. I stumble into my room and throw the bolt. Another of us here? Well, why not? I'm not the only one. There may be hundreds in New York alone. But in the same hotel? I remember now. I've seen him occasionally -- a silent, dour man, tense, hunted-looking, unsociable. No doubt I appear the same way to others. Keep the world at a distance. I don't know his name or what he is supposed to do for a living. We are forbidden to make contact with fellow Homeworlders except in case of extreme emergency. Isolation is a necessary condition of our employment. I may not introduce myself to him -- I may not seek his friendship. It is worse now for me, knowing that he is here, than when I was entirely alone. The things we could reminisce about! The friends we might have in common! We could reinforce one another's endurance of the gravity, the discomfort of our disguises, the vile climate. But no. I must pretend I know nothing. The rules. The harsh, unbending rules. I to go about my business, he his; if we meet, no hint of my knowledge must pass. So be it. I will honor my vows. But it may be difficult. He goes by the name of Swanson. Been living in the hotel eighteen months -- a musician of some sort, according to the manager. "A very peculiar man. Keeps to himself. No small talk, never smiles. Defends his privacy. The other day a maid barged into his room without knocking and I thought he'd sue. Well, we get all sorts here." The manager thinks my Homeworlder may actually be a member of one of the old European royal families, living in exile. Or something similarly romantic. The manager would be surprised. IF I defend my privacy too. From Elizabeth, another assault on it. In the hall outside my room. "My new poems," she said. "In case you're interested." And then: "Can I come in? I'd read them to you. I love reading out loud." And: "Please don't always seem so terribly afraid of me. I don't bite, David. Really I don't. I'm quite gentle." "I'm sorry." "So am I." Anger, now, lurking in her shiny eyes, her thin taut lips. "If you want me to leave you alone -- say so, I will. But I want you to know how cruel you're being. I don't demand anything from you. I'm just offering some friendship. And you're refusing. Do I have a bad smell? Am I so ugly? Is it my poems you hate and you're afraid to tell me?" "Elizabeth -- " "We're only on this world such a short time. Why can't we be kinder to each other while we are? To love, to share, to open up. The reality trip. Communication, soul to soul." Her tone changed. An artful shading. "For all I know, women turn you off. I wouldn't put anybody down for that. We've all got our ways. But it doesn't have to be a sexual thing, you and me. Just talk. Like, opening the channels. Please? Say no and I'll never bother you again, but don't say no, please. That's like shutting a door on life, David. And when you do that you start to die." Persistent. I should tell her to go to hell. But there is the loneliness. There is her obvious sincerity. Her warmth, her eagerness to pull me from my lunar isolation. Can there be harm in it? Knowing that Swanson is nearby, so close yet sealed from me by iron commandments, has intensified my sense of being alone. I can risk letting Elizabeth get closer to me. It will make her happy. It may make me happy. It could even yield infotmation valuable to Homeworld. Of course I must still maintain certain barriers. "I don't mean to be unfriendly. I think you've misunderstood Elizabeth. I haven't really been rejecting you. Come in. Do come in." Stunned, she enters my room. The first guest ever. My few books, my modest furnishings, the ultrawave transmitter impenetrably disguised as a piece of sculpture. She sits. Skirt far above the knees. Good legs, if I understand the criteria of quality correctly. I am determined to allow no sexual overtures. If she tries anything I'll resort to -- I don't know -- hysteria. "Read me your new poems," I say. She opens her portfolio. Reads. In the midst of the hipster night of doubt and Emptiness, when the bad-trip god came to me with Cold hands,  looked up and shouted yes at the Stars. And yes and yes again. I groove on yes; The devil grooves on no. And I availed for you to Say yes, and at last you did. And the world said The stars said the trees snid the grass said the Sky said the streets said yes and yes and yes -- She is ecstatic. Her face is flushed. Her eyes are joyous. She has broken through to me. After two hours, when it becomes obvious that I am not going to ask her to go to bed with me, she leaves. Not to wear out her welcome. "I'm so glad I was wrong about you, David," she whispers. "I couldn't believe you were really a life-denier. And you're not." Ecstatic. I AM getting into very deep water. We spend an hour or two together every night. Sometimes in my room, sometimes in hers. Usually she comes to me but now and then, to be polite, I seek her out after Third Feeding. By now I've read all her poetry; we talk instead of the arts in general, politics, racial problems. She has a lively, well-stocked, disorderly mind. Though she probes constantly for information about me, she realizes how sensitive I am and quickly withdraws when I parry her. Asking about my work: I reply vaguely that I'm doing research for a book and when I don't amplify she drops it, though she tries again, gently, a few nights later. She drinks a lot of wine and offers it to me. I nurse one glass through the whole visit. Often she suggests we go out together for dinner. I explain that I have digestive problems and prefer to eat alone. She takes this in good grace but immediately resolves to help me overcome those problems. Soon she is asking me to eat with her again. There is an excellent Spanish restaurant right in the hotel, she says. She drops troublesome questions. Where was I born? Did I go to college? Do I have family somewhere? Have I ever been married? Have I published any of my writings? I improvise evasions. Nothing difficult about that, except that never before have I allowed anyone on Earth such sustairted contact with me, so prolonged an opportunity to find inconsistencies in my pretended identity. What if she sees through? And sex. Her invitations grow less subtle. She seems to think that we ought to be having a sexual relationship simply because we've become such good friends. Not a matter of passion as much as one of communication -- we talk, sometimes we take walks together, we should do that together too. But of course it's impossible. I have the external organs but not the capacity to use them. Wouldn't want her touching my false skin in any case. How to deflect her? If I IF declare myself impotent she'll demand a chance to try to cure me. If I pretend homosexuality she'll start some kind of straightening therapy. If I simply say she doesn't turn me on physically she'll be hurt. The sexual thing is a challenge to her, as merely getting me to talk with her once was. She often wears the transparent pink shawl that reveals her breasts. Her skirts are hip-high. She doses herself with aphrodisiac perfumes. She grazes my body with hers 'henever opportunity arises. The tension mounts. She is determined to have me. I have said nothing about her in my reports to Homeworld. Though I do transmit some of the psychological data I have gathered by observing her. "Could you ever admit you were in love with me?" she asked tonight. And she asked, "Doesn't it hurt to repress your feelings all the time? To sit there locked up inside yourself like a prisoner?" And: "There's a physical side of life too, David. I don't mind so much the damage you're doing to me by ignoring it. But I worry about the damage you're doing to you." Crossing her legs. Hiking her skirt even higher. We are heading toward a crisis. I should never have let this begin. A torrid summer has descended on the city and in hot weather my nervous system is always at the edge of eruption. She may push me too far. I might ruin everything. I should apply for transfer to Homeworld before I cause trouble. Maybe I should confer with Swanson. I think what is happening now qualifies as an emergency. Elizabeth stayed past midnight tonight. I had to ask her finally to leave: work to do. An hour later she pushed an envelope under my door. Newest poems. Love poems. In a shaky hand. David: You mean so much to me. You mean the stars and nebulas. Cant you let me show my love? Cant you accept happiness? Think about it. I adore you. What have I started?     #F. today. The fourth successive day of intolerable heat. Met Swanson in the elevator at lunchtime, nearly blurted the truth about myself to him. I must be more careful. But my control is slipping. Last night in the worst of the heat I was tempted to strip off my disguise. I could no longer stand being locked in here, pivoting and ducking to avoid all the machinery festooned about me. Resisted the temptation just barely. Somehow I am more sensitive to the gravity too. I have the illusion that my carapace is developing cracks. Almost collapsed in the street this afternoon. All I need: heat exhaustion, whisked off to the hospital, routine fluoroscope exam. You have a very odd skeletal structure, Mr. Knecht... Indeed. Dissecting me, next, with three thousand medical students looking on. And then the United Nations called in. Menace from outer space. Yes. I must be more careful. I must be more careful. I must be more... Ill N OW I've done it. Eleven years of faithful service destroyed in a single wild moment. Violation of the Fundamental Rule. I hardly believe it. How was it possible that I -- that I -- with my respect for my responsibilities -- that I could have -- even considered, let alone actually done -- But the weather was terribly hot. The third week of the heat wave. I was stifling inside my false body. And the gravity -- was New York having a gravity wave too? That terrible pull, worse than ever. Bending my internal organs out of shape. Elizabeth a tremendous annoyance, passionate, emotional, teary, poetic, giving me no rest, pleading for me to burn with a brighter flame. Declaring her love in sonnets, in rambling hip epics, in haiku. Spending two hours in my room, crouched at my feet, murmuring about the hidden beauty of my soul. "Open yourself and let love come in," she whispered. "It's like giving yourself to God. Making a commitment, breaking down all walls. Why not? For love's sake, David, why not?" I couldn't tell her why not and she went away. But about midnight she was back knocking at my door. I let her in. She wore an ankle-length silk housecoat, gleaming, threadbare. "I'm stoned," she said hoarsely, voice an octave too deep. "I had to bust three joints to get up the nerve. But here I am. David, I'm sick of making the turnoff trip. We've been so wonderfully close and then you won't go the last stretch of the way." A cascade of giggles. "Tonight you will. Don't fail me. Darling." Drops the housecoat. Naked underneath it. Narrow waist, bony hips, long legs, thin thighs, blue veins crossing her breasts. Her hair wild and kinky. A sorceress. A seeress. Berserk. Approaching me, eyes slit-wide, mouth open, tongue flickering snakily. How fleshless she is! Beads of sweat glistening on her flat chest. Seizes my wrists, tugs me roughly toward the bed. We tussle a little. Within my false body I throw switches, nudge levers. I am stronger than she is. I pull free, breaking her hold with an effort. She stands flatfooted in front of me, glaring, eyes fiery. So vulnerable, so sad in her nudity. And yet so fierce. "David! David! David!" Sobbing. Breathless. Pleading with her eyes and the tips of her breasts. Gathering her strength -- now she makes the next lunge but I see it coming and let her topple past me. She lands on the bed, burying her face in the pillow, clawing at the sheet. "Why? Why why why In a minute we will have the manager in here. With the police. "Am I so hideous? I love you, David, do you know what that word means? Love. Love." Sits up. Turns to me. Imploring. "Don't reject me," she whispers." I couWn't take that. You know, I just wanted to make you happy. I figured I could be the one, only I didn't realize how unhappy you'd make me. And you just stand there. And you don't say anything. What are you, some kind of machine?" "I'll tell you what I am," I said. That was when I went sliding into the abyss. All control lost, all prudence gone. My mind so slathered with raw emotion that survival itself means nothing. I must make things clear to her, is all. I must show her. At whatever expense. I strip off my shirt. She glows, no doubt thinking I will let IF myself be seduced. My hands slide up and down my bare chest, seeking the catches and snaps. I go through the intricate, cumbersome process of opening my body. Deep within myself something is shouting, No No No No No... but I pay no attention. The heart has its reasons. Hoarsely: "Look, Elizabeth. Look at me. This is what I am. Look at me and freak out. The reality trip." My chest opens wide. I push myself forward, stepping between the levers and struts, emerging halfway from the human shell I wear. I have not been this far out of it since the day they sealed me in, on Homeworld, I let her see my gleaming carapace. I wave my eyestalks around. I allow some of my claws to show. "See? See? Big black crab from outer space. That's what you love, Elizabeth. That's what I am. David Knecht's just a costume and this is what's inside it." I have gone insane. "You want reality? Here's reality, Elizabeth. What good is the Knecht body to you? It's a fraud. It's a machine. Come on, come closer. Do you want to kiss me? Should I get on you and make love?" During this episode her face has displayed an amazing range of reactions. Open-mouthed disbelief at first, of course. And frozen horror -- gagging sounds in throat, jaws agape, eyes wide and rigid. Hands fanned across breasts. Sudden modesty in front of the alien monster? But then, as the familiar Knecht-voice, now bitter and impassioned, continues to flow from the black thing within the sundered chest, a softening of her response. Curiosity. The poetic sensibility taking over. Nothing human is alien to me: Terence, quoted by Cicero. Nothing alien is alien to me. Eh? She will accept the evidence of her eyes. "What are you? Where did you come from?" And I say, "I've violated the Fundamental Rule. I deserve to be plucked and thinned. We Ye not supposed to reveal ourselves. If we get into some kind of accident that might lead to exposure, we're supposed to blow ourselves up. The switch is right here." She comes close and peers around me, into the cavern of David Knecht's chest. "From some other planet? Living here in disguise?" She understands the picture. Her shock is fading. She even laughs. "I've seen worse than you on acid," she says. "You don't frighten me now, David. David? Shall I go on calling you David?" This is unreal and dreamlike to me. I have revealed myself, thinking to drive her away in terror; she is no longer aghast, and smiles at my strangeness. She kneels to get a better look. I move back a short way. Eyestalks fluttering -- I am uneasy, I have somehow lost the upper hand in this encounter. She says, "I knew you were unusual, but not like this. But it's all right. I can cope. I mean, the essential personality, that's what I fell in love with. Who cares that you're a crab-man from the Green Galaxy? Who cares that we can't ever be real lovers? I can make that sacrifice. It's your soul I dig, David. Go on. Close yourself up again. You don't look comfortable this way." The triumph of love. She will not abandon me, even now. Disaster. I crawl back into Knecht and lift his arms to his chest to seal it. Shock is glazing my consciousness: the enormity, the audacity. What have I done? Elizabeth watches, awed, even delighted. At last I am together again. She nods. "Listen," she tells me, "you can trust me. I mean, if you're some kind of spy, checking out the Earth, I don't care. I dont care. I won't tell anybody. Pour it all out, David. Tell me about yourself. Don't you see? This is the biggest thing that ever happened to me. A chance to show that love isn't just physical, isn't just chemistry, that it's a soul trip, that it crosses not just racial lines but the lines of the whole damned species, the planet itself -- " It took several hours to get rid of her. A soaring, intense conversation, Elizabeth doing most of the talking. She putting forth theories of why I had come to Earth, I nodding, denying, amplifying, mostly lost in horror at my own perfidy and barely listening to her monolog. And the humidity turning me into rotting rags. Finally: "I'm down from the pot, David. And all wound up. I'm going out for a walk. Then back to my room to write for a while. To put this night into a poem before I lose the power of it. But I'll come to you again by dawn, all right? That's maybe five hours from now. You'll be here? You won't do anything foolish? Oh, I love you so much, David! Do you believe me? Do you?" When she was gone I stood a long while by the window, trying to reassemble myself. Shattered. Drained. Remembering her kisses, her lips running along the ridge marking the place where my chest opens. The fascination of the abomination. She will love me even if I am crustaceous beneath. I had to have help. I went to Swanson's room. He was slow to respond to my knock -- busy transmitting, no doubt. I could hear him within but he didn't answer. "Swanson?" I called. "Swanson?" Then I added the distress signal in the Homeworld tongue. He rushed to the door. Blinking, IF suspicious. "It's all right," I said. "Look, let me in. I'm in big trouble." Speaking English. But I gave him the distress signal again. "How did you know about me?" he asked. "The day the maid blundered into your room while you were eating, I was going by. I saw." "But you aren't supposed to -- " "Except in emergencies. This is an emergency." He shut off his ultrawave and listened intently to my story. Scowling. He didn't approve. But he wouldn't spurn me. I had been criminally foolish but I was of his kind, prey to the same pains, the same lonelinesses, and he would help me. "What do you plan to do now?" he asked. "You can't harm her. It isn't allowed." "I don't want to harm her. Just to get free of her. To make her fall out of love with me." "How? If showing yourself to her didn't -- " "Infidelity," I said. "Making her see that I love someone else. No room in my life for her. That'll drive her away. Afterward it won't matter that she knows -- who'd belaugh and tell her to lay off the tachment to me I'm finished." "Love someone else? Who?" "When she comes back to my room at dawn," I said, "she'll find the two of us together, dividing and abstracting. I think that'll do it, don't you?" S O I deceived Elizabeth with Swanson. The fact that we both wore male human identities was irrelevant, of course. We went to my room and stepped out of our disguises -- a bold, dizzying sensation -- and suddenly we were just two Homeworlders again, receptive to one another's needs. I left the door unlocked. Swanson and I crawled up on my bed arid began the chanting. How strange it was after these years of solitude to feel those vibrations again! And how beautiful. Swanson's vibrissae touching mine. The interplay of harmonies. An underlying sternness tahis technique -- he was contemptuous of me for my idiocy and rightly so -- but once we passed from the chanting to the dividing all was forgiven. And as we moved into the abstracting it was truly sublime. We climbed through an infinity of climactic emptyings. Dawn crept upon us and found us A knock at the door. Elizabeth. "Come in," I said. A dreamy, ecstatic look on her face. Fading instantly when she saw the two of us entangled on the bed. A questioning frown. "We've been mating," I explained. "Did you think I was a complete hermit?" She looked IF from Swanson to me, from me to Swanson. Hand over her mouth. Eyes anguished. I turned the screw a little tighter. "I couldn't stop you from falling in love with me, Elizabeth. But I really do prefer my own kind. As should have been obvious." "To have her here now, though -- when you knew I was coming back -- " "Not her, exactly. Not him exactly either, though." " -- so cruel, David! To ruin such a beautiful experience'" Holding forth sheets of paper with shaking hands. "A whole sonnet cycle," she said. "About tonight. How beautiful it was and all. And now -- and now -- " Crumpling the pages. Hurling them across the room. Turning. Running out, sobbing furiously. Hell hath no fury like. "David!" A smothered cry. And slamming the door.  # She was back in ten minutes. Swanson and I hadn't quite finished donning our bodies yet -- we were both still unsealed. As we worked we discussed further steps to take. He felt honor demanded that I request a transfer back to Homeworld, having terminated my usefulness here through tonight's indiscreet revelation. I agreed with him to some degree but was reluctant to leave. Despite the bodily torment of life on Earth I had come to feel I belonged here. Then Elizabeth entered, radiant. "I mustn't be so possessive," she announced. "So bourgeois. share my love." Embracing Swanson. Embracing me. "A menage a trois"' she said. "I won't mind that you two are having a physical relationship. As long as you don't shut me out of your lives completely. I mean, David, we could never have been physical anyway, right, but we can have the other aspects of love. And we'll open ourselves to your friend also. Yes? Yes? Yes?" Swanson and I both put in applications for transfer, he to Africa, I to Homeworld. It would be some time before we received a reply. Until then we were at her mercy. He was blazingly angry with me for involving him in this but what choice had I had? Nor could either of us avoid Elizabeth. We were at her mercy. She bathed both of US' in shimmering waves of tender emotion; wherever we turned, there she was, incandescent with love. Lighting up the darkness of our lives. You poor lonely creatures. Do you suffer much in our gravity? What about the heat? And the winters. Is there a custom of marriage on your planet? Do yon have poetry? A happy threesome. We went to the theater together. To concerts. Even to parties in Greenwich Village. "My friends," Elizabeth said, leaving no doubt in anyone's mind that she was living with both of us. Faintly scandalous doings; she loved to seem daring. Swanson was sullenly obliging, putting up with her antics but privately haranguing me for subjecting him to all this. Elizabeth got out another mimeographed booklet of poems, dedicated to both of us. Triple Tripping, she called it. Flagrantly erotic. I quoted a few of the poems in one of my reports to Homeworld, then lost heart and hid the booklet in the closet. "Have you heard about your transfer yet?" I asked Swanson at least twice a week. He hadn't. Neither had I. Autumn came. Elizabeth, burning her candle at both ends. Iodised gaunt and feverish. "I have never knon such happiness," she announced frequently, one hand clasping Swanson, the other me. "I never think about the strangeness of you any more. I think of you only as people. Sweet, wonderful, lonely people. Here in the darkness of this horrid city." And she once said, "What if everybody here is like you and I'm the only one who's really human? But that's silly. You must be the only ones of your kind here. The advance scouts. Will your planet invade ours? I do hope so! Set everything to rights. The reign of love and reason at last!" "How long will this go on?" Swanson muttered. At the end of October his transfer came through. He left without saying goodbye to either of us and without leaving a forwarding address. Nairobi? Addis Ababa? Kinshasa? having him around to share the burden of Elizabeth. Now the full brunt of her affection fell on me: My work was suffering. I had no time to file my reports properly. And I lived in fear of her gossiping. What was she telling her Village friends? You know David? He's not really a man, you know. Actually inside him there's a kind of crab-thing from another solar system. But what does that matIF ter? Love's a universal phenomenon. The truly loving person doesn't draw limits around the planet.) I longed for my release. To go home, to accept my punishment, to shed my false skin. To empty my mind of Elizabeth. My reply came through the ultrawave on November thirteenth. Application denied. I was to remain on Earth and continue my work as before. Transfers to Homeworld were granted only for reasons of health. I debated sending a full account of my treason to Homeworld and thus bringing about my certain recall. But I hesitated, overwhelmed with despair. Dark brooding seized me. "Why so sad?" Elizabeth asked. What could I say? That my attempt at escaping from her had failed. "I love you," she said. "I've never felt so real before." Nuzzling against my cheek. Fingers knotted in my hair. A seductive whisper. "David, open yourself up again. Your chest, I mean. I want to see the inner you. To make sure I'm not frightened of it. Please? You've only let me see you once." And then, when I had: "May I kiss you, David?" I was appalled. But I let her. She was unafraid. Transfigured by happiness. She is a cosmic nuisance but I fear I'm getting to like her. Can I leave her? I wish Swanson had not vanished. I need advice. iK-tac-tK! Spandau bullets raved past G-#'s Spad as its mighty Hisso whined the plane into a turn, bringing his guns to bear on the hapless Fokker Well, space opera it wasn't, but #-# month from Berkley-bit a lot of the same nerve-ends as did the liveiidr puip SF of those bygone years And anyhow, what about Herr Doktor Kreuger and those giant bats... or the good Doktor's notion of transplanting cobra eyes into pilots' heads, they should see in the dark? There's science for you! Berkley April releases (S#, #) Laumer(S#, #) If your newsstand or bookstore is out of stock, order any of these (list price plus a dime postage) from: # Madison Ave.,New York, N.Y. # Purchasers of our books have complete freedom of choice in pricing these books for resale to others. Either I break with Elizabeth or I break with Homeworld. This is absurd. I find new chasms of despondency every day. I am unable to do my work. I have requested a transfer once again, without giving details. The first snow of the winter today. Application denied.  # "When I found you with Swanson," she said, "it was a terrible shock. An even bigger blow than when you ftrst came out of your chest. I mean, it was startling to find out you weren't human but it didn't hit me in any emotional way -- it didn't threaten me. But then to come back a few hours later and find you with one of your own kind, to know that you wanted to shut me out, that I had no place in your life -- only we worked it out, didn't we?" Kissing me. Tears of joy in her eyes. How did this happen? Where did it all begin? Existence was once so simple. I have tried to trace the chain of events that brought me from there to here and I cannot. I was outside of my false body for eight hours today. The longest spell so far. Elizabeth is talking of going to the islands with me for the winter. A secluded cottage that her friends will make available. Of course, I must not leave my post without permission. And it takes months simply to get a reply. Let me admit the truth: I love her. January #. The new year begins. I have sent my resignation to Homeworld and have destroyed my ultrawave equipment. The links are broken. Tomorrow, when the city offices are open, Elizabeth and I will go to get the marriage license.  IF His flight companion was a brain with a built-in nightmare realer than dreams! The ship floated huge in space, a black leviathan against the stars, infinitely menacing. He watched the rear viewscreen fear-fascinated as he thrust at the controls, pushing hard, although the lever was at its extremity. Fingers of terror caressed the back of his neck -- willing the little scout to go faster, accelerate, get away from the monster at his back. But the acceleration Avas imperceptible, as though his craft were unable to break away from the gravitational pull of the giant freighter. As he stared at the screen it seemed in his imagination that the freighter was growing in size rather than diminishing. He pumped the levers, striving for more thrust. The vibration of the rockets altered. The little ship shuddered momentarily, hesitated. The starboard motor cut out and, as he watched, the vast bulk slid gradually off the rear screen. Feverishly he worked the attitude controls, striving uselessly to correct the wide arc. And presently the freighter slid into the forward screen like a killer whale moving in. He didn't scream. His lips moved soundlessly as the freighter grew and slowly, in a vivid carmine flare, exploded -- disintegrating in a great cloud of expanding debris and white flame. Then he screamed hoarsely -- again and again -- as the scout plunged into the crimson fireball. DeGrazza, still screaming, screamed himself into consciously ness and bright light as the sun streamed through the window of his bedroom, crimson through his eyelids. Altairids have. lost their A second ship in a week. Lost without trace somewhere within their asteroid belt. They've got to blame someone, so they blame Galactic Computers. Sometimes I wonder whether we ought to stick to earthbound computers ... You're not looking fresh this morning, DeGrazza. Rough night?" "I've known better." "I can let Robins handle it if you like -- but I wouldn't have brought you back from leave if it weren't important." Cobb eyed DeGrazza critically, noting the inflamed eyelids and the dark shadows beneath. I hope he isn't cracking up. Sometimes Cobb found it difficult to maintain his self-inflicted reputation as the tough-guy boss of Galactic Computers -- especially when he saw good men, like DeGrazza exhibiting signs of nerves and tension from overwork. "It's all right." DeGrazza made a conscious effort to pull himself together. "The Vegan freighter business shook me up a bit, I guess. And it wasn't our computer that failed to regulate the pile," he added bitterly. "Those bloody Vegans had bypassed the control to get more power. I see it now!" IF "I read your report," Cobb said in sympathetic tones, hating himself for a hypocritical bastard. But he had to have DeGrazza back on this job. "You got a rough deal." A rough deal. Nobody, thought DeGrazza, knew the full details of that final ten minutes aboard the freighter in orbit around Earth, when the Vegans had abandoned ship leaving him alone to deal with the runaway pile. As the captain left hastily he had informed DeGrazza that if the ship were lost. Galactic Computers would be made to foot the bill. Then, alone in the deserted freighter, he had found the overheated linkage fitted by the Vegans themselves, warped and impossible to shift. He had left the ship with minutes to spare and the explosion had been seen by half the Earth. The outcome was still DeGrazza's word against the Vegans. "So what's the job this time?" he asked resignedly, wondering why he didn't quit. The answer was obvious. Mary made sure they lived to the limits of their means; the kids' education cost a fortune -- the job paid well. "Quite simple. You take a trip in an Altairid hopper as co-pilot. Keep your eyes open. See if anything suggests itself to you. It's quite a short journey from Altair Six to Eight, through the asteroid belt. Watch out for those asteroids -- they're mostly uncharted." "Our computer ought to handle that easily. It's radar-coupled." "The Altairids have put in a modification," Cobb informed him mildly, bracing himself for the explosion. It came. When DeGrazza had exhausted his extensive vocabulary he asked what modification? "They're nervous folk, the Altairids. They've duplicated the control system, using an Altairid brain." "You mean an organic brain?" asked DeGrazza in some disgust. This type of organic-mechanical link-up was prevalent among various alien species. They considered it progress toward the day when an intelligent being would employ thought alone to control his environment. "Uh -- yes. It's fitted in parallel with our computer. Receives the same instructions from the keyboard, radar and so on, on duplicated wiring -- but does nothing unless positive instruction is received, either from pilot or radar, that the computor is making a mistake. Then it can override our equipment." "So the brain is superfluous," commented DeGrazza. "I should have thought so but the Altairids think otherwise. They say that if our computer should break down in an emergency, say due to an overload in the input, the brain is quick. It can receive input without a keyboard." "How's that?" "Oh, didn't you know?" Cobb's tone was innocent. "The Altairids are telepathic." He eyed DeGrazza blandly. "That's all I need," muttered DeGrazza in disgust. "To have one of those weirdies picking my mind while I'm trying to stop an argument between our computer and their blasted brain:" Cobb remarked, "So you've come to the same conclusion. Somewhere there's a conflict between the computer and the brain. Maybe over a certain type of instruction." "If I notice any trouble brewing up between them," grated DeGrazza savagely, "I'll put a bullet though that brain." But you cant do that, DeGrazza, because preservation of equipment comes before preservation of self They say because an examination of faulty gear may yield information to save hundreds of lives but you know they are lying. The machine has replaced the man -- therefore it is more valuable and must be saved first. But the brain is organic. What is the order of precedence here? Earth to Altair but hyperspace journey left him with little time for dreaming. He was met at the pad and escorted to the offices of Altair Hoppers. The Altairids were humanoid -- tall, gentle people with luminous eyes and they looked at him, at his uncouth, squat, bearded form as though he were a murderer. He wondered what they were thinking -- what signals flashed from mind to mind of the reception committee, as they met DeGrazza, the embodiment of the company whose computers had lured their colleagues to death among the asteroids. DeGrazza, your guilt is showing. These men can read your mind. The computers are foolproof -- think that if you can! Toward the end of the second day of the seven-day hop DeGrazza tried an experiment, first ensuring that the Altairid pilot was safely asleep. He glanced at the forward viewscreen, saw nothing untoward apart from the occasional streak of an outlying pebble from the asteroid belt. The cabin of the hopper was tiny, the bulk of the large ship being taken up with cargo space for slow-speed interplanetary trading. The two seats, pilot's and copilot's, were side by side, facing a common console. Set into the fascia of the console, in addition to the controls, were the forward and rear viewscreens and behind it, between the instruments and the nose of the ship, were the radar, the Galactic's computer and, presumably, the brain. IF DeGrazza reached forward and punched a random series of directions into the computer keyboard, watching the gyroscopic DF needles carefully. The ship appeared to hesitate, lurched slightly -- then the needles steadied as the brain, sensing through the radar no obstacles ahead, corrected the erroneous data and brought the ship back on course. First round to the Altairids. DeGrazza sat back and contemplated. From the information supplied by the Altairids he had gathered that the brains used were, in effect, hypnotized before installation and programed to respond only when their subconscious registered an unexpected deviation. Thus they would normally be alert only when the ships were among the larger asteroids and course corrections were frequent. Otherwise their higher thinking capabilities were shut down. A brain could not therefore ponder to itself for years in a lonely, inactive void and thereby go insane. Theoretically. The brain, he told himself, was an organic computer, nothing more. Moreover, it could only think in terms of figures, so they said. So why had two ships crashed among the asteroids? Was the ship's brain thinking a few moments ago? Did the brain know horror and bewilderment as the ship veered insanely off course, a madman at the controls? troubleshooter Steady, DeGrazza. It's quite possible that the brain can read your mind and had anticipated the test you proposed before your fingers hit the keys. But that should not be possible because the brain cannot conceive abstract ideas -- only digits. How do you express fear in numbers? Does the brain resent the computer in some mathematical fashion? The cabin was very small, womblike -- the feeling that there were more than two intelligencies present was claustrophobic. How many can think, and how do they think? DeGrazza, Altairid, brain, computer. Everywhere a conflict. The ship lurched again, suddenly and violently, and this time DeGrazza hadn't touched the controls. Again came the jolt -- he stared at the screen but could see nothing to account for the deviation. "What's happening?" The Altairid was alert, grasping the manual attitude controls, peering at the gyro needles. Quickly he brought the ship back on course. "I don't know," admitted DeGrazza. "She suddenly went berserk. I didn't touch anything." "Then the computer suffered a malfunction," stated the alien with underlying satisfaction. "It's fortunate that this didn't happen among the asteroids proper." DeGrazza went on the defensive. "Perhaps the brain went haywire." "If I had been in your position I would have tested the brain during my sleep period," remarked the Altairid shrewdly. "I imagine you did so." "I did," DeGrazza muttered reluctantly. Then, with a sudden flash of annoyance: "Were you reading my thoughts? We'd better get this straight. If you want my cooperation you've got to keep out of my mind. I won't have it, I tell you. Don't forget, you've no proof that our computers went wrong. That's only supposition and it wouldn't get you anywhere in court. But between us we might sort something out -- if you lay off the telepathy." "Steady, DeGrazza," admonished the alien gently. "I wasn't prying into your brain. I don't work like that. Unless I make a deliberate effort to concentrate, all ' I receive from you is a general impression of the emotions uppermost in your mind." "Let's keep it that way." "Naturally. Now, if you will forgive me, what was the outcome of your private test on the brain?" "It worked. It regained control." "So the computer must be faulty." "Listen," said DeGrazza desperately. "I've worked for Galactic Computers for twenty years and we've never in all that time had a serious malfunction. The unit itself is foolproof -- duplicated printed circuits, the lot. Any error has always been in the ancillary equipment and that's pretty safe, too. But the computer must work perfectly. It's the combination of computer plus brain that causes the trouble. It can't be anything else. Some sort of feedback between the two." "The brain cannot fail," stated the alien categorically. This time the Vegan freighter W # under his feet. He way kicking himself off across the short distance to the scout's airlock. Space was like oil -- he floated slowly, so slowly, manipulating the jet pack with fumbling fingers, setting his course to cover the distance in the quickest time, forgetting in his haste the slight rotation of the huge ship. He was drifting past his scout too fast to make another correction -- he would have to make an orbit and approach the airlock from the opposite direction. The hull plates crept past -- a horizontal weld, a blank area of metal, a strip of weld, again, again -- how many plates were there to a circumference, for God's sake? At last, the airlock. He seized the projecting handhold, stepped inside the confined space, turned to pull the hatch shut behind him. He saw the black freighter expand like an overinflated tube and burst, sweepIF ing fire towards the scout, engulfing him... echoed in his ears as he struggled to the surface of life. He opened his eyes. The Altairid stood before him, staring into his face with an expression of horror and concern. He gazed around him, feeling the sweat dribbling down his neck, seeing the interior of the cabin. He was in the Altairid hopper, three days out from Altair VI, and the Vegan freighter was weeks behind him. "What's the trouble?" he asked. "Your mind is haunted," replied the alien slowly. DeGrazza, you are haunted by the converging pressures of the past and future, squeezing your mind until it screams with pain in the night when the defences are relaxed. Mary, the Vegan freighter, the kids, Mary, the brain, Cobb, the Altairid, Mary -- all pushing your senses to madness, crushing upon you from the past. But what unknown glacier of fear is pressing mind with advance icebergs of presentiment? "What are you talking about? I sometimes have nightmares, that's all. If you didn't pry into other people's minds you wouldn't get frightened. Lay off me, will you?" DeGrazza sank back in his seat, trembling as much from reaction to the dream as from annoyance at the Altairid's intrusion. "The contact was not of my seeking. The emissions were so strong that I couldn't keep them out. I've never seen a mental picture so vivid." "Don't you get dreams?" A thoughtful silence. Then: "Occasionally. Like yours -- but mine are a race memory which affects most of my people. We see a giant explosion in the sky, accompanied by a sensation of utter horror. Probably the similarity to your dream is what disturbed me." "A race memory?" "You do not know Altairid history? Once we were a young race and warlike, very unlike our present timid selves. We had spread from what you call Altair Six to the nearest two planets. Seven and Eight, but our sciences had not taught us sense." "Science and sense are not always synonymous, in any language," observed DeGrazza ruefully. "This was a long time ago and we like to think that we have progressed since. Anyway, one day Altair Seven, the first colony,, proclaimed independence. Imagine that -- they came from the same stock as their fathers on Altair Six, yet they wished to be considered apart." "I've known examples which have worked out." "But we are telepathic -- all of the same family. It was like an amputation." "Or like putting a live brain in a box?" asked DeGrazza skeptically. "That is necessity born of our cautious characteristics, which were themselves born of the events which followed independence of Altair Seven. As I was saying -- the fact that members of our own race had cut themselves off was felt very deeply. Overtures were made but to no effect. They were repulsed -- and gradually the attitude of both factions hardened. Diplomatic relations were eventually severed entirely. All of this occurred centuries ago, you understand. Then came the climax. The breakaway world of Altair Seven laid claim to Altair Eight on the grounds that it was from their planet that Eight had been colonised. All quite true -- but the people of Altair Eight were quite content to remain with us. Full scale war broke out. Our ancestors had prepared themselves for this day over a long period -- it was obvious what the outcome would be. Interplanetary missiles were launched from both Six and Eight timed to coincide with sabotage explosions on Seven itself." "No quarter given in those days," murmured DeGrazza. "It was them or us. The day came when the entire planet of Altair Seven was shrouded in gigantic explosions. Half the population was watching from my own planet and what they saw was etched on their memories for a lifetime -- and their children, born afterward saw it in their parents' minds and their children. The memory of the disintegration of Altair Seven persists to this day and with it, fear. It is hardly surprising that violence in any form is abhorrent to my people and timid self-preservation is now our primary characteristic." "So Altair Seven became your asteroid belt," observed DeGrazza. "The evidence of our shame will be visible forever. The belt is highly radioactive even now." "Radioactive?" DeGrazza was struck by an idea. "Certainly." "I wonder -- " DeGrazza gazed at the radar screen, watching the multitude of moving sparks through which the computer, with frequent course corrections, was guiding them. " UT if the brain is capable of overriding the computer at any time, then it must be the brain that is affected by radiation," DeGrazza had said. And the Altairid, tiring of the argument which had become repetitive, had replied once again. "The brain is shielded." He had shown DeGrazza the cabinet behind which the brain IF resided and had assured the Earthman that it was lead-lined and proof even against cumulative effect. So once again DeGrazza sat his solo watch, the alien dozing fitfully in his seat, the asteroids flicking past the viewscreen, the radar showing more and bigger to come. Two days to go and so far only the germ of an idea which might not, on this particular trip, be capable of any sort of proof. DeGrazza examined his thoughts critically. Hell, he didn't want the ship to hit an asteroid. On the other hand, he didn't relish a string of uneventful trips, waiting for something to go wrong. So what do you want, DeGrazza? What exactly are you hoping for in this night of stars? Are you sure that it is not death you are seeking, the quick death of escaping air and ruptured blood vessels which will release you for ever from the bonds of Mary and Cobb, the freighter and radioactivity? Or is it that you welcome the timeless effect of space travel, feeling you stand still while others grow old? In such a fashion the pincers are eased, the converging jaws of past and future are stilled and the mind senses that last week is last week and next week is no closer because you, DeGrazza, are in a limbo anticline of space-antitime. And you deceive yourself, because every past second takes you into the future. That future awaiting you when, as well you know, in the midst of the complex of relays and sensors and cell-tissue, so failsafe and foolproof and duplicated that nothing will go wrong... And yet something had gone wrong three standard days ago when the ship had apparently gotten out of control momentarily and the Altairid had regained control manually. There had been no problem because they had not been surrounded by flying chunks of rock. By the look of the radar now they were really in the thick of it -- one asteroid ten degrees to starboard appeared as big as Iceland and there were other similar pieces about. Three days ago there had been few meteorites, yet the ship had veered off course. Was the radiation theory feasible? Briefly DeGrazza considered the explosive kind of invisible antimatter but rejected the possibility as too farfetched. The vast meteorite grew in the radar screen and he eyed it nervously, calculating how far to starboard it would pass, his stomach tense with the thought that this time, at a moment some few miles away, the brain computer might choose, perversely, to act up. There would be no question of sealing a few punctures and carrying on -- the ship would be lost without trace on that miniature planet, strewn about the radioactive crags. The asteroid, now occupying half the radar screen, crept into the corner of the viewscreen. Over the years DeGrazza had learned to rely on his hunches. His fingers hovered over the controls while his eyes watched the spreading landscape of mountains, fissures and hard, jet shadow. He glanced at the alien beside him, eyelids fluttering in half-sleep, and wondered if he should wake him. When the direction jets kicked, the violent movement nevertheless caught him only half-prepared and he was flung from his seat to the bulkhead. His head snapped back, smashing into the metal with a sick thud. He watched, helpless and dazed as the ship, veering, headed directly towards the jagged profusion of pinnacles... This is it, DeGrazza -- this is the climax you have been waiting for. This is the instant when you will have to decide, once and forever, whether you want to live or die. Because you can die now easily -- just by lying stunned, allowing your will for self preservation to ebb into the past, becoming weaker with each successive moment as you comfortably slip into unconsciousness. You can die now if you want to. If you really want to... The features of the asteroid surface became clearer, nearer, expanding in the screen. Sharp silver crags, inky ravines, brief barren plains slid past. He saw dimly, swinging rapidly closer, a gigantic structure of shattered, twisted steelwork, throwing striding shadows across a rugged hillside. He screamed, struggling to reach the controls. Too weak to rise, he shook the limp form of the Altairid beside him. The dull eyes flickered open. "Contact the brain!" The alien's eyes cleared. He glanced quickly at the screen. There was an infinitesimal pause, then the asteroid swung away, the landscape tilting. The stars reappeared. They were back on course. DeGrazza, you live. That was what you wanted in the end. "TOW perhaps you realize the advantages of the brain," remarked the alien some minutes later. "It would have been impossible to reach the controls in time but the brain responded instantly to my commands and overrode the incorrect course set by the radar and computer." "You're assuming too much," muttered DeGrazza, still feeling dizzily sick. "Wait a moment," he said suddenly. "You say that the brain will accept telepathic commands and obey them regardless of what the radar is picking up? I thought it was just the computer IF that was bypassed." He frowned. "Radar can go wrong, too. The possibility of a malfunction is inherent in anything mechanical or electrical. Telepathic instructions therefore take precedence over any others." "I see," murmured DeGrazza. Malaise forgotten, interest and will to live restored, his mind darted among the byways revealed by the new information. "Ask the brain why it changed course," he said abruptly, nevertheless feeling that this was too simple. There was some explanation in the back of his mind as to why this could not be done. "Impossible. The brain can only think in terms of numbers. It could not conceive the meaning of that type of question." Of course. "Right, then," said DeGrazza, knowing that he should have thought of this two days ago. "Ask the brain to repeat back the last few sequences of course corrections." He had been so wrapped up in the notion of radiation and a braincomputer conflict that he had missed checking up on this obvious clue. Find out where the ship was headed and he might find out why, "That can be done," agreed the Altairid. DeGrazza readied a stylus and pad. "#-#," intoned the alien, eyes closed, concentrating on the pictures relayed from the brain. DeGrazza wrote briskly. "#-# -- these are the present checks on the computer. It might take a while to get back." "Carry on." "#-# -- #-# -- #-# -- #-# -- Going back now. # -- #-# -- That was my evasive action. Nothing. #-#-# -- " "What's that?" "#-# -- " droned the Altairid. "#-# -- nothing -- #-# -- # -- #-# -- " "Back on course," murmured DeGrazza. "This is before we went out of control. Wake up." He nudged the alien who was still mumbling bearings as if hypnotized. "You got the figures down?" "Yes, fine, thanks." DeGrazza studied the pad, comparing the list with the printout of the same bearings from the computer. "Do they mean anything to you?" "They mean one thing," respond ed the Earthman grimly. "As far as the computer was concerned we were on the correct course. There's no sign of #readings on the computer printout. Which proves that it was the brain, and only the brain, that sent us off course." He showed the alien the lists. "#-# -- " the alien read aloud. "#-# -- #-# -- . That's odd." ( Please turn to page #) A Retief story of war and piece -- and fto wer po wer! I G entlemen," Undersecretary for Extraterrestrial Affairs Thunderstroke announced in tones of doom, "it looks like war." "What looks like war?" a stout man in plainly tailored civvies asked blurrily, as one just awakened from a pleasant nap. "War, you say?" He slapped the conference table with a well-manicured hand. "Well, its about time we taught the beggars a lesson!" "You've leaped to a faulty conclusion, Colonel," the undersecretary said sourly. "We are not on the point of embarking on hostilities -- " "Naturally not," the military advisor said, rising. "Not your job. Civilians all very well -- but time now for military to take over. You'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary? I must rejoin my regiment at once -- " "Sit down, Henry," the chief of the Groaci Desk said tiredly. "You haven't got the big picture. No Terran forces are involved on Yudore at all. Strictly an Eetee affair." "Sound thinking." The colonel nodded approvingly. "Why throw away the lives of Terran lads when plenty of native lives are available for the purpose? To be given selflessly in defense of sacred Terran principles, that is to say. By the way, which is our side?" "Try to grasp the point. Colonel," the undersecretary said acidly. "We're neutral in the affair." "Of course -- but whom are we neutral in favor of? Or in favor of whom, I should say, are we -- " "No one. And we intend to keep it that way." "Umm." The colonel resumed his seat and his nap. "It appears," the undersecretary resumed, "that our old friends the Groaci are locked in an eyestalkto-eyestalk confrontation with the Slox." "What are these shlocks called, sir?" the acting assistant deputy undersecretary inquired in a tone of deep synthetic interest. "Slox, Magnan, S-l-o-x. Inveterate trouble-makers from the Slox System, half a dozen lights in-Arm. Jt appears both they and the Groaci are claiming mandateship of Yudore, an unexceptional planet of a small Class G sun well off the trade routes." "Well, why doesn't one of them just go mandate somewhere else?" a commerce man demanded. "There are scads of available planets out that way." "The Groaci state that Yudore falls within their natural sphere of influence," Thunderstroke said. "As for the Slox, their position is that they found the place first." A it," the commerce man snapped. "Then we could all get IF back to matters of importance, such as the abnormal rate of increase in the rate of decrease of the expansion of the trend toward reduction of increasing berp-nut consumption among unwed fathers ages nine through ninety on backward worlds of the Nicodeman group, a development which I just detected this morning through the use of refined psychostatistical techniques." "Good lord, Chester -- " a political forecast specialist picked up the cue -- "what will be the projected impact of this downturn in the upturn?" "Upturn of the downturn, if you must use layman's language," Chester corrected. "Why, at the present rate it appears that by fiscal 'ninety-seven there'll be a record high in unwed fathers." "To return to the subject at hand, gentlemen," Thunderstroke cut in ominously, "both parties to the dispute have dispatched battle fleets to stand by off Yudore, primed for action." "Hmm. Seems to me there's a solution of sorts implicit in that datum," someone murmured. "Let us hope not. An outbreak of hostilities would blot our copybooks badly, gentlemen." Thunderstroke glared at the offender. "Unfortunately the Groaci ambassador has assured me privately that his government's position is unalterable. Groaci doctrine, as he explained matters, makes accommodation with what he terms 'vilesmelling opportunists' impossible, while a spokesman for the Slox has announced they refuse to yield an inch to the 'five-eyed sticky fingers -- ' as he calls the opposition party." "It sounds like a major policy blunder cm the part of the Groaci," Magnan observed contentedly, "How refreshing that for once the "We could hardly be said to be uninvolved, Mr. Magnan," Thunderstroke pointed out sternly, "if we undertake to mediate the dispute." "No, I suppose not -- but why be pessimistic? Who would be idiot enough to suggest poking our nose into that bag of annelids?" "As it happens," Thunderstroke said in a voice like an iceberg sliding into an Arctic sea, "I did!" "You, sir?" Magnan croaked. "Why, what a splendid notion -- now that I've had time to consider it in depth, I mean." A fragile-looking acting section chief sprang to the undersecretary's support. "After all, our function as diplomats is to maintain interplanetary tensions at a level short of violence." "Would you want to make that 'reduce tensions,' Chester?" the information agency representive inquired, pencil poised. "Just in case you're quoted out of context." "No reporters," Thunderstroke decreed. "I shudder to think what critics of the Corps might make of any little slip in our part in this affair." "I suppose you'll be sending along a hundred-man Conciliation Team with a squadron of Peace Enforcers to deal with the matter," Magnan said, a speculative look on his narrow features. "Hardly," Thunderstroke said flatly. "This is a job for finesse, not brute diplomacy. In a situation of this nature, a single shrewd, intrepid, coolly efficient negotiator is the logical choice." "Of course, sir, how shallow of me not to have seen it at once." Magnan pursed his lips thoughtfully. "Naturally, the task calls for a man of wide experience -- " "With a total contempt for deadly personal danger," someone put in. "Preferably without a family," Magnan added, nodding. "Too bad that lets me out," a deputy assistant undersecretary said briskly. "As you know. I'm the sole support of twelve cats and a most demanding parakeet -- " "I wasn't thinking of you, Henry,' Thunderstroke said severely. "I had in mind a senior diplomat, a man of lofty IQ, unshakable principle and unquestioned dexterity in the verbal arena." "Good lord, sir," Magnan blurted. "I appreciate your confidence, but my duties here -- " "Unfortunately," Thunderstroke bored on, "the files have failed to produce the nanue of any such paragon. Hence I must make do with the material at hand." "Well!" Magnan muttered under his breath, then paled as Thunderstroke fixed him with an imperious eye. "I assume your inoculations are in order?" the undersecretary inquired coldly. "Mine, sir?" Magnan said, pushing his chair back and rising hastily. "Actually, my hayfever shot is due in half an hour -- " "I suggest you ask for a heavy dosage of anti-radiation drugs while you're there," the assistant for ET affairs said cheerfully. "And of course a tetanus shot wouldn't do any harm." "Kindly be seated, Magnan," Thunderstroke barked. "Now, you'll 'be going in in a plainly marked courier vessel. I suggest you exercise caution as you approach the battle flotillas. The Slox are said to be even more trigger-happy than the notoriously impetuous Groaci." "I'm to go into that hornet's nest, sir -- in an unarmed boat?" "You'll be armed with instructions, Magnan. Buck up, man. This is no time to show the white feather." Magnan sank into his chair. "As for myself. I'm delighted, of course," he said breathlessly. "I was just thinking of all those innocent crew members." IF II "I'd considered that aspect, Magnan. And of course you're right. It would be folly to risk the lives of an entire crew." Magnan brightened. "Therefore, you'll be dropped a fractional A.U. from the scene of action in a fast one-man scout." ."A one man boat? But -- " Magnan paused. "But unfortunately," he went on ia tones of relief, "I don't know how to pilot one." "Why not?" Thunderstroke demanded. "Sector regs discourage it," Magnan said crisply. "Only last month a chap in my department received a severe dressing down for engaging in acrobatics over Lake Prabchinc -- " "Oh? What's this fellow's name?" "Retief, sir. But as I said, he's already received a reprimand, so it won't be necessary -- " "Retief." Thunderstroke made a note. "Very well. Make that a two-man scout, Magnan." "But -- " "No buts, Magnan. This is war -- or it will be if you fail. And time is of the essence. I'll expect you and this Retief fellow to be on the way to the battle zone within the hour." "But sir -- two diplomats against two fleets?" "Hm. Phrased in that fashion, it does sound a bit unfair. Still -- they started it. Let them take the consequences." seat of the thirty-foot skiff, waiting in the drop-bay of the Corps transport, Magnan watched the launch clock nervously. "Actually," he said, "the undersecretary had his heart set on a one-man mission -- but at my insistence he agreed to send me along with you." "I wondered who my benefactor was," Retief said. "Nice to know you were thinking of me." "Retief -- are you implying -- " Magnan broke off as the voice of the captain of the mother ship rang from the panel speaker. "Fifteen seconds, gentlemen. Say, I hope your policies are all paid up. From what my translator tells me about the transmissions those boys are exchanging up ahead, you're going to arrive just in time for M minute." "I wish he'd trip the launch lever," Magnan snapped. "I'll be profoundly happy to depart this hulk, if only to be away from that gloating voice." "I heard that," the captain said. "What's the matter, no sense of humor?" "I'm convulsed," Magnan said. "Better unconvulse," came the swift suggestion. "This is it. Happy landings -- " There was a slam of relays, a thud, a jolt that dimmed the passengers' vision for a long, dizzying moment. When it cleared, black space dotted with fiery points glared from the screens. Astern, the transport dwindled and was gone. "I'm picking them up already," Retief said, manipulating the controls of the R-screen. "Our daredevil captain dropped us practically in their midst." "Has the shooting started?" Magnan gasped. "Not yet. But from the look of those battle formations it won't be long." "Maybe we ought to transmit our plea for peace. from here," Magnan said hurriedly. "Something eloquent to appeal to their finer natures, with just a smidgin of veiled threat on the side." "I have a feeling it's going to take more than sparkling conversation to stop these fellows," Retief said. "Anybody who owns a new battlewagon has a natural yen to see if it works." "I've been thinking," Magnan said abruptly. "You know how sonnel -- now that we've seen the hopelessness of the task, it's our duty to salvage what we can from the debacle. Besides, an eyewitness report will be of inestimable value to the undersecretary when the board of inquiry starts digging into the question of how he allowed a war to start right under our noses." "I'm with you so far, sir." "That being the case," Magnan went on quickly, "if you should insist on withdrawing from the scene at this point, I hardly see how I could prevent you." "You're in command, Mr. Magnan," Retief pointed out. "But I have a distinct feeling that our reception back at Sector would be less then enthisiastic if we don't have at least a few blast burns on the hull to show for our trouble." "But, Retief!" Magnan pointed at the screen on which the long, deadly-looking shape of a Groaci cruiser was growing steadily. "Look at that monster, bristling with guns from stem to stern. How can you reason with that kind of firepower?" A t that moment a crackle oT static blared from the screen. A pale, alien visage with five stalked eyes stared out at the Terrans from under a flared war helmet. "To identify yourselves at once, rash interlopers," a weak voice hissed in sibilant Groaci. "To be gone instantly or suffer dire consequences -- " "Why, if it isn't Broodmaster Slith!" Magnan cried. "Retief, it's Broodmaster Slith. You remember Broodmaster Slith of the Groacian Trade Mission to Haunch Four?" "Is it you, Magnan?" the Groaci grated. "When last we met you IF were meddling in Groaci affairs under the guise of selfless uplifter, disrupting peaceful commerce. In what role do you now intrude in Groacian space?" "Now, Slith, you have to confess it was a bit much, selling plastic frankfurters to those poor backward hot-dog lovers -- " "How were we to know their inferior metabolisms were incapable of assimilating wholesome polystyrenes?" Slith snarled. "Enough of this chatter. Withdraw at once or take full responsibility for precipitation of a regrettable incident." "Now, don't be hasty. Broodmaster -- " "You may address me as Grand Commander of Avenging Flotillas Slith, if you please. As for haste, it is a virtue I recommend to you. In sixty seconds I order my gunners to fire." "I suggest you reconsider. Commander," Retief said. "At the first shot from your guns, three will get you five the Slox open up on you with everything they've got." "What matter? Let the miscreants invoke the full wrath of outraged Groacihood." "At a rough count, they have thirty-one ships to your twentyfour," Retief pointed out. "I think they've got you out-wrathed." "But what's all this talk of shooting?" Magnan cried. "What could possibly be gained by gunfire?" "Certain parcels of real estate, for a starter," Slith said crisply. "Plus the elimination of certain alien vermin." Magnan gasped. "You confess you're here to take Yudore by force?" "Hardly -- not that the matter is of any concern to Terran spies. My mission here is to prevent the invasion of hapless Yudore by the insidious Slox -- " "I hear this," a rasping, highpitched voice cut in from the auxiliary screen. It was accompanied by a hissing of background noise. A wavering image formed on the tube, steadied into the form of a shiny, purplish-red cranium, long and narrow, knobbed and spiked...A pair of yellow eyes were mounted on outriggers that projected a foot on either side. "I outrage! I do not endure! You are gave one minutes. Eastern Standard Timef for total abandon of vicinity! Counting! Nine, twelve, two, several -- " "What -- what is it?" Magnan gasped, staring at the newcomer to the conversation. "Aha -- collusion between Soft One and Slox!" Slith keened. "I see it now! You thought to distract my attention with an exchange of civilities while your vile cronies executed a sneak attack -- " "I -- Chief General Okkyokk -- chum to these monstrositaries?" The Slox spokesman screeched. "Such indignant my language lack! Insufficient you threaten to lowly benefits of Slox Protectorate -- but addition of insults! My goodness! Drat! Other obscenity as required!" "It will not avail you to rant," Slith whispered in a venomous tone. "My guns stand ready to answer your slurs -- " "Only incredible restrains of high-class Slox general intrudes herself to spare those skinny neck!" Okkyokk yelled in reply. "Gentlemen, don't get carried away," Magnan called over the hiss of static. "I'm sure this can all be worked out equitably -- "Unless this pernicious meddler in the Groaci destiny disperses his flimsy hulls at once. I'll not be responsible for the result," Slith declared. "My frustrate!" Okkyokk yelled and brandished a pair of anterior limbs tipped with complicated shredding devices. "Gosh, such wish to know sensation of plait all five eyes into single superocular, followed by pluck like obscene daisy -- " "To wait in patience until the happy moment when I officiate at your burial, head-down, in the ceremonial sand-box," Slith countered. "Well, at least they're still speaking to each other," Magnan said as the exchange raged on. "That's something..." "We may get through this without any hull-burns after all," Retief said. "They have each other bluffed. It looks like talk rather than torpedoes will carry the day. I suggest we execute a strategic withdrawal while they slug it out, vocabulary-to-vocabulary." "Hmm. Scant points in that for Terran diplomacy. Duty demands that we play a more creative role in the rapprochmenty Magnan put a finger against his narrow chin. "Now, if I should be the one to propose an equitable solution -- " "Let's not remind them we're here, Mr. Magnan," Retief suggested. "Frustrated tempers are often taken out in thrown crockery and we'd make a convenient teacup -- " "Nonsense, they'd never dare." Magnan leaned forward. "Gentlemen," he called over the din of battle. "I have the perfect solution. Since there seems to be some lack of confidence on the part of each of you in the benign intentions of the other, I propose that Yudore be placed under a Terran Protectorate." Magnan smiled expectantly. T here was an instant of total silence as two sets of alien sense organs froze, oriented toward the interruption. Slith was the first to break the paralysis. "What? Leave the fruits of Groaci planning to Terran harvesting? Never." "I convulse!' Okkyokk howled. "I exacerbate! I froth at buccal cavity! How are you invite? Mercy! Heavens to Marmaduke! Et cetera!" "Gentlemen," Magnan said. "We Terrans would only remain on Yudore until such time as the aborigines had been properly educated in modern commercial methods and sexual hygiene, after which we'd withdraw in favor of local self-determination!" "First to pervert, then to abandon!" Slith hissed. "Bold threats. Soft Ones! But I defy you! General Okkyokk! I propose a truce while we band together to confront the common enemy." "Done! Caramba! I effronterize! I mortal insult! I even annoy! First destruction we the kibitzer! Then proceedure to Slox-Groaci quarrel!" "Wait!" Magnan yelped. "You don't understand -- " "I'm afraid they do," Retief said as he reached for the controls. "Hang on for evasive action, Mr. Magnan." The tiny craft leaped ahead, curvetting wildly left and right. There was a flash and the screens went white and blanked out. The boat bucked wildly and flipped end-for-end. A second detonation sent it spinning like a flat stone skipped over a pond. "Retief -- stop! We're headed straight for no-man's land!" Magnan gasped as a lone screen flickered back to life, showing a vast Groaci battlewagon swelling dead ahead. "We're going in under their guns," Retief snapped. "Running away, we'd be a sitting duck." "Maybe they'll let us surrender," Magnan bleated. "Can't we run out a white flag or something?" "I'm afraid it would just give them an aiming point." Retief wrenched the boat sideways, rode out another near miss, dove under the big ship's stern. "Look out -- " Magnan screamed as a vast, mottled bluegreen disk slid onto the screen. "We'll crash on Yudore -- " "If we're lucky," Retief agreed. Then the rising keening of splitting air made further conversation impossible. Ill E xcept for the fading hiss of escaping air and the ping of hot metal contracting, the only sounds audible in the shattered cockpit were Magnan's groans as he extricated himself from the wreckage of his contour chair. Through a rent in the hull, yellow sunlight glared on the smoking ruins of the scout boat's control panel, the twisted and buckled floor plates, the empty pilot's seat. "Glad to see you're awake," Retief said. Magnan turned his aching head to see his companion leaning in the open escape hatch, apparently intact but for a bruise on the cheekbone and a burned patch on the front of his powderblue blazer. "The air's a little thin but the O# content seems adequate. How do you feel?" "Ghastly," Magnan confided. He fumbled his shock harness free and groped his way through the hatch to drop down shakily on a close-cropped peach-colored sward. All around, tall, treelike growths with ribbed red-orange trunks rose into the pale sky, supporting masses of spongy tangerine-toned foliage. Clumps of yellow, amber and magenta blossoms glowed in the shade like daubs of fluorescent paint. "Why are we still alive?" the senior diplomat inquired dazedly. "The last thing I remember is a pale pink mountain sticking up through a cloud bank directly in our path." "We missed it," Retief reassured his chief. "There was just IF enough power left on our plates to cushion touchdown. That and a lot of springy foliage saved our necks." "Where are we?" "On a small island in the northern hemisphere, which seems to be the only land on the planet. That's about as specific as I can be, I'm afraid -- and I designated the north pole arbitrarily at that." "Well -- let's get it over with." Magnan sighed, looking around. "Where are they? I suggest we throw ourselves on Slitch's mercy. Frankly, I don't trust that Okkyokk -- there's something shifty about those cantilevered oculars of his." "I'm afraid we won't be able to surrender immediately," Retief said. "Our captors haven't yet arrived." "Hmm. Doubtless they're making a somewhat less precipituous approach than we. I suppose we might as well make ourselves comfortable." "On the other hand," Retief said reasonably, "why wait around?" "What other hope of rescue have we?" "I don't think either party would make the ideal host -- assuming they bother with live prisoners in the first place." "You're implying that Slith -- a fellow bureaucrat -- a being with whom I've shared many a convivial cup -- would acquiesce to our execution out of hand?" Magnan gasped. "He might. If he didn't do the job himself." "Heavens, Retief, what are we to do? How far do you suppose it is to the nearest native village?" "I didn't see any signs of civilization on the way down -- no towns, no roads or cleared fields. Let's give a listen on the long-wave bands." Retief climbed back into the wrecked craft, investigated the number of broken wires and twirled the knob. Nothing but faint static. He switched to the ship-to-ship frequency. " -- blundering two-eyed incompetent!" Slith's furious voice came through loud and clear. "Your broken-down excuse for a flagship was closer to them than my own superb standard-bearer. It was your responsibility to blast them from space -- " "My indignant! My furious! Heck! Darn! This accuse from a Five-eyes margarine-fingers! I intolerate! Too bad!" "Have done! These vituperations avail us not at all. If the Soft Ones survive to make known that we fired on a Terran vessel -- in self-defense, of course -- horde of their execrable Peace Enforcers will descend on us like bim beetles in grub-harvest time." "I proposterate! My laughter! Your numbskull! Alive, oh! After such crashing, entirely! No, unpossible; I rediculate! Au contraire, I suggestion my resumption our dispute. Where were? Indeed, yes -- my descriptioning your ancestry-" "Hark, mindless one! Like other low forms of life, the Soft Ones are tenacious of vitality. We must make sure of their demise. Hence, I shall descend to administer the coup de grace to any survivors, while you stand by off-planet -- or, preferably, withdraw to neutral space -- " "So you enable to theft these planet, unoppositioned? My amuse! My hylerical! Goodness me! I accompanate, quite so!" "Very well -- if you insist. You may accompany me aboard my personal gunboat. I'll designate a modest destroyer escort to convoy us down to the surface." "Nix. I preference to my own vessel, gratitudes anyhow. And my bring few Slox cruiser in order to not lonesome." "Cruisers?" Slith said harshly. "In that case I think a pair of Groaci battleships would be in order -- just to balance the formation, you understand." "Combination operate incompletion -- unless Slox battlewagon also include." "Actually," Slith hissed, "I see no reason not to bring my entire fleet along -- just in case you should entertain ideas of a sneak attack during my absence." "My agreeness! I, too! The more the merriment! Gracious me! Full speed ahead! Devil take the hind parts!" "Agreed! Roger and out," Slith snapped. "Good heavens, Retief," Magnan muttered, "those two madmen are going to stage a full-scale invasion just to keep an eye on each other." "No one could accuse us now of having failed to influence the course of Slox-Groaci relations," Retief said calmly. "Well, let's be off. We have about an hour before they arrive." Quickly he detached the compact radio from its mountings, extracted an emergency ration pack from the debris. "Which way?" Magnan queried worriedly, staring at the deep orange shade of the forest all around. "Take your choice, Mr. Magnan," Retief said, indicating the four points of the compass. "Eeenie, meenie, miney or moe." "Hmm. I think perhaps due meenie. It looks a tiny bit less forbidding. Or possibly just a few points to the miney of meenie." "Meenie by miney it is," Retief said and led the way into the tall timber.Ihausted," Magnan panted three quarters of an hour and three miles from the wrecked scout boat. IF "We're not yet clear," Retief said. "We'd better keep going and rest later." "I'd soon face a Groaci firing squad as die of heart failure and heat prostration." Magnan sank down on the yielding turf, lay breathing in great gulps. "How about a Slox skinning party?" Retief suggested. "I understand they start with the scalp and work downward -- like peeling a banana." "Jape if you must." Magnan groaned. "I'm past caring." He sat up suddenly, staring suspiciously at a small, bell-shaped blossom with petals of a delicate shade of coral pink. "Bees," he said distastefully. "Allergic as I am even to Terran insects, a sting from an alien form would probably be instantly fatal." "Still, as you pointed out, one demise is pretty much like another," Retief consoled his superior. "If it actually was a bee you saw, it's the first native animal life to make its presence known." "I didn't see it but I heard it distinctly," Magnan said severely. "It buzzed practically in my ear." "This is a rather curious forest," Retief observed. "Only one variety of tree, one kind of grass, one type of flower -- in assorted sizes and colors. But no weeds. No parasitic vines. No big trees crowding out smaller ones, no stunted growth. Not even any deadfalls." Magnan grunted. "Retief, suppose for the nonce we succeed in eluding capture -- what then? Nobody knows we're here. How will we ever be rescued?" "Interesting question, Mr. Magnan." "Not that it matters a great deal," Magnan went on morosely. "With my mission a failure -- worse than a failure -- my career is in ruins. Do you realize that if it hadn't been for our meddling this invasion would probably never have come to pass?" "The thought had occurred to me," Retief conceded. "To say nothing of the loss of the scout-boat. If the undersecretary holds me responsible -- holds us responsible, I should say -- that is, in the event he doesn't hold you personally responsible, Retief, as pilot -- why, you'll be years paying it off," he went on more cheerfully. "Still, I'll put in a word for you. After all, Slith was shooting at us." "There is that." "And actually, who's to say it was my friendly attempt to offer a compromise that precipitated the invasion? I daresay the hotheads would have embarked on their conquest in any event." "Possibly," Retief agreed. "By engaging them in conversation I doubtless delayed the inevitable for a -- a length of time." "Several seconds at least." IV "Relief, by offering myself as a sacrifice on the alter of inter-being chumship I may have saved countless lives." "I suppose a certain number of bacteria were lost in our crash landing," Relief sarcastically pointed out. "You scoff," Magnan charged. "But history will vindicate my stand. Why, I wouldn't be surprised if a special posthumous medal were struck -- " He broke off with a start. "There it is again -- " He scrambled up. "It sounded like an enraged hornet. Where did it go?" Relief cocked his head, listening, then leaned over to examine the clump of apricot-colored flowers nodding on long stems, beside which Magnan had been sitting. "Don't waste time plucking nosegays," Magnan yelped. "I'm under attack -- " "Mr. Magnan, I don't think there are any insects in the vicinity" "Eh? Why, I can hear them quite plainly." Magnan frowned. "It sounds like one of those old fashioned hand-crank telephones still in use out on Jawbone. When you leave it off the hook." "Close, Mr. Magnan," Relief said and leaned down to put his ear close to the trumpet-shaped bloom. "Well, I thought you'd never speak," a tiny voice said distinctly in his ear. B uzzing blossoms is quite fantastic enough," Magnan said wonderingly. "But talking tulips? Who'd ever believe it?" "... somebody to converse with," the cricket-sized voice was saying. "I'm dying to know all the news. Now, just tell me all about yourself -- your hopes, your dreams, how you happened to be here -- everything -- " Relief held a blossom to his lips as if it were indeed the mouthpiece of a phone. "I'm Relief. This is my colleague, Mr. Magnan. Whom have we the honor of addressing?" "Well, nice to know you. Relief. And Mister Magnan, too. May I call you Mister for short? First nam'es are so much more sort of informal. I'm Herby. Just a nickname, of course. Actually I don't have a name. At least I didn't have until dear Renfrew came along. You have no idea what a sheltered life I'd led until then. Why, do you know I had the idea I was the only sentient intelligence in the Galaxy?" "Who are you?" Magnan blurted. "Where are you? Why is the microphone camouflaged to look like a plant?" "Camouflage? Why, there's no camouflage. Mister. You see me just as I am." "But I don't see you at all," Magnan complained, looking IF around warily. "Where are you hiding?" "You're squeezing me at this very moment," Herby said. "You mean -- " Magnan held the faintly aromatic blossom at arm's length and stared at it. "You mean -- I'm -- you're -- we're -- " "Now you're getting the idea," the voice said encouragingly. "Talking flowers -- here, in the middle of nowhere -- and speaking Terran at that? I must be hallucinating. Tve been driven mad by hardship." "I doubt it, Mr. Magnan," Retief said soothingly. "I hear it, too." "If I can imagine I hear voices coming out of posies I can imagine your hearing them too," Magnan retorted tartly. "Oh, I'm real enough," the voice said reassuringly. "Why should you doubt me?" "Who taught you to speak Terran?" Retief asked. "Renfrew. I learned so much from him. Curious -- but before he came, it never occurred to me to be lonely." "Who is Renfrew?" "A friend. A very dear friend." "Retief, this is fantastic," Magnan whispered. "Are there -- are there many like you?" he inquired of the bloom. "No -- just me. After all, there'd hardly be room, you know -- " "A coincidence," Magnan exclaimed. "One talking plant on the entire world and we stumble on it in the first hour. I'm beginning to think our luck is still holding." "Now, where are you from, if you don't mind my asking?" the plant inquired. "We're Terrans," Magnan said. "And I'm sure we're going to get on famously, Herby." "But -- I understood Terra was the name of Renfrew's home planet." "Quite so. Marvelous place. You'd love it, now that all the jungles have been cleared and replaced by parking lots -- " Magnan caught himself. "Ah, no offense intended, of course. Some of my best friends are plants." "Heavens -- all three of you from one planet? No wonder you left. Such overcrowding -- " "Yes -- now, Mr. Herby, if you could just tell us the way to the nearest native settlement -- " "Buildings, you mean? Streets, spaceports, that sort of thing?" "Yes. Preferably not one of these dismal provincial towns. Something in a modest metropolis will do." "Sorry, there isn't one -- though Renfrew told me about them." Magnan groaned. "No towns at all? Then -- " "Just jungle." "If this fellow Renfrew has a ship we may be able to catch a ride with him. I wonder -- could we meet him?" "Well -- I suppose so, Mister. He's quite nearby as it happens." "He's still here, then?" "Oh, yes indeed." "Saved," Magnan breathed in relief. "Can you direct us, Herby?" "Certainly. Just press on meenie, bearing a little to the miney after you cross the stream, then hard moe at the lake. You can't miss him." Magnan looked startled. "How did you know?" He frowned at Retief in puzzlement. "I thought we named the local directions." "Oh, indeed," Herby spoke up. "I merely employed your own nomenclature." "You must have a fantastic ear," Magnan said wonderingly. "That discussion was held miles from here." "I don't miss much," Herby said complacently. "He's remarkably sophisticated for such a modest bloom," Magnan commented as they started off. "I suspect most of Herby is underground, Mr. Magnan," Retief pointed out. "There's no room for a speech center in the part we saw." "Gad -- a subterranean cerebrum -- like a giant potato?" Magnan said uneasily, treading lightly. "A spooky thought, Retief." Twenty minutes' brisk hike brought the two Terrans to the shore of a small, gurgling brook overhung with majestically arching foliage. They followed the bank to the right for a quarter of a mile, at which point the waters spilled down in a foaming amber cataract into a placid pond a halfmile across. "So far so good," Magnan said uncertainly. "But I see no signs of habitation, not even a hut, to say nothing of a ship." Retief moved past Magnan toward a dense thicket that obtruded somewhat from the smooth line of trees edging the lakeshore. He parted the broad, copper-colored leaves, revealing a surface of rustpitted metal curving away into the dimness. "Lousy Ann Two," he read the corroded letters welded to the crumbling hull plates. "Looks like we've found Renfrew's ship." He pulled a law-growing branch aside. "And here's Renfrew." "Splendid!" Magnan hurried up, halted abruptly to stare in horror at the heap of mouldering bones topped by a grinning skull still wearing a jaunty yachting cap. "That's Renfrew?" he quavered. "Quite so," said a deep voice from somewhere overhead. "And take my word for it. Mister -- it's been a long, lonely time since he sat down there." "rwiwO hundred years, give orI take a decade or two," Retief said as he climbed out through the derelict's sagging port, brushIF ing the dust and rust scale from his hands. "She was a Concordiatregistered racing sloop, converted for long-range cruising. What's left of the crew quarters suggests she was fitted out for one-man operation." "That's right," agreed the resonant baritone -- which, the Terrans had determined, emanated from a large, orchid-like blossom sprouting amid the foliage twenty feet above their heads. "Just Renfrew. It was a small world he inhabited but he seemed content with it. Not that he was stand-offish, of course. He was as friendly as could be -- right up until the difficulty about his leaving." "What sort of difficulty?" Magnan inquired. "He seemed quite upset that his vessel was unable to function. I did my best to console him -- regaled him with stories and poems, sang merry songs -- " "Where did you learn them?" Magnan cut in sharply. "I understood Renfrew was the first Terran to visit here." "Why, from him, of course." "Good lord -- imagine having your own chestnuts endlessly repeated back at you," Magnan whispered behind his hand. "Did you ever tell a joke to an ambassador?" Retief inquired. "A telling point," Magnan conceded. "But at least they usually add a little variety by garbling the punchline." "How did Renfrew happen to crash-land here?" Retief inquired. "Oh, he didn't. He came to rest very gently." "Then why couldn't he take off again?" Magnan demanded. "I believe he described it as foreign matter in the warpilator field windings," the voice replied vaguely. "But let's not talk about the past. The present is so much more exciting. Heavens, there hasn't been such activity here since the last glacial age." "Retief -- there's something slightly piscine about this situation," Magnan murmured. "I'm not sure I trust these garrulous gardenias. Herby said he was the only one of his kind on the planet -- yet here's another equally verbose vegetable." "Oh, that was quite true," the voice above spoke up promptly. "Why in the world would I lie to you?" "Kindly refrain from eavesdropping," Magnan said coldly. "This is a personal conversation." "Not as personal as calling me a potato brain," the orchid said a trifle coolly. "Goodness -- I hope you don't listen to irresponsible gossip," Magnan replied with dignity. "Do I appear the type to employ such an epithet?" He put his mouth to Retiefs ear. "The grapevine here surpasses anything I've encountered even at a diplomatic reception." "Now, let me see," the voice from on high mused. "You mentioned something called a parking lot. I'd like to know more about that and -- " "I suppose Herby told you that, too," Magnan snapped. "If I'd known he was such a blabbermouth I'd never have confided in him! Come, Retief -- we'll withdraw to where we can have a modicum of privacy." "As to that, Mr. Magnan -- " Retief started. "Not here," Magnan interrupted. He led the way a hundred feet down the shore, halted under a spreading bough. "It's apparent I was indiscreet with Herby," he said from the corner of his mouth, without moving his lips. "I see now he was a rumormonger of the worst stripe, in addition to being of questionable veracity. Sole representative of his race, indeed! Why, I suspect every shrub in sight has a wagging tongue." "Very probably," Retief agreed. "There's nothing to do now, quite obviously," Magnan said, "but select an honest-looking plant and approach the problem afresh, impressing the vegetable with our sincerity and benign intentions. When we've wormed our way into its confidence we can determine how best to make use of it to our own best advantage. How does it sound?" "Familiar," Retief said. "Excuse me." Magnan jumped a foot as a voice squeaked the words almost in his ear. "What does 'sincerity' mean in this context?" Retief addressed a cluster of small, russet buds almost invisible among the roan leaves overhead. "Very little." "Is there no privacy to be found anywhere in the confounded wilderness?" Magnan inquired with asperity. "I'm afraid not," the miniature voice piped. "As I was telling you a while ago, there's not a great deal I miss." "A while ago?" Magnan repeated with a rising inflection. "Why, we've only just met -- " "I don't understand. Mister. I'm Herby. You know me." "Nonsense. Herby is a little chap growing a mile from here." "Of course. I grow everywhere, naturally. After all, it's my island, share it with a few friends." "Utter nonsense," Magnan sputtered. "I might have known a potato was incapable of coherent thought." "Herby's telling the truth," Retief said. "It's all one plant -- the trees, the grass, everything. Like a banyan tree, only more so." He examined a flower closely. "There's a tympanic membrane that serves as both microphone and speaker. Very ingenious of mother nature." (Please turn to page #) IF He was an android until he began to act like a man... S HE came in off the spaceship alone. She had waited a full two hours before she was allowed to debark, since by custom passengers left at fifteen-minute intervals. At one time this rule had been necessitated by health requirements but the medical problem had been solved a long time ago with the discovery of a universal antibody. Yet the isolation techniques persisted. They had taken a stranglehold on the social mores and travelers had become seclusive, seeking solace and pleasure self-centeredly, shunning each other's ways. She looked up at the towering red-bricked buildings, deliberately located so that one could see much of the planetoid from the turreted walls. Each building, the tourist brochure had said, was patterned in room layout and structural detail along the lines of the finest nineteenth-century Terran architecture. She adjusted the tiny cap that sat lightly on her head, pleased at how happy she felt without its aid. She had come out of boredom and partly out of curiosity about the planetoid. It was made up of complex sections pieced together from a space platform. It was almost twenty miles in diameter with an ultradense core that gave it a surface gravity comparable to that of Earth. It was surrounded by a leakproof, shatterproof, translucent shield that kept in the artificially maintained atmosphere, an atmosphere uniform in temperature and humidity. She entered the lobby, walking over a rug whose pile was so dense that she was tempted to roll in it. The wall hangings were ancient tapestries of modest maidens and austere unicorns, illuminated by soft, colored lights seeping in from concealed overhead fixtures. She was greeted by Mr. Gordon, the gaming registrar, a tall, middleaged man, ruddy cheeked and effervescent. "Welcome to Gambler's Heaven," he said. On a whim she offered her elegant hand and he was shocked. "If you have your fiscal card with you," he said, pretending not to see the outstretched hand, "we can begin. According to regulations, you fnay play up to fifteen per cent of your total credit listing." She withdrew her hand, amused at his fear of touching her and handed him a plastic card. He accepted it with a pair of golden tongs and delicately inserted the card into a reader. "Ah," he said happily. "You're a lucky young lady. Your limit is one hundred and thirty thousand." "I'm a bit mixed-up about the procedure," she said. "May I rent an android? You suggest this in your brochure." "Certainly. I have an excellent chap available for only one thouIF sand credits per day. But remember, he is forbidden to help you gamble." She nodded and he pressed a buzzer. Within a moment, a neatly dressed android appeared. About his neck was a striking necklace of stylized nuts and bolts. He looked at her gravely, neither bold nor withdrawn. "This is Martin," said Mr. Gordon. "He'll take you to the gaming cubicle." She nodded amiably at her guide and followed him through a French door and into a fairyland of podocopi, pachysandrae, azaleas, laurels and yews. "They're lovely, aren't they?" she said. He seemed surprised at her remark. "But they're artificial," he said. She smiled. "I read about them in the brochure." They came to one of the smaller lovely red brick buildings. He guided her inside to a compact, lavishly furnished room with a desk console and a large, illuminated wall panel. The air was faintly perfumed with the scent of a rose bower. Martin checked the entry switches with deft fingers. "All play is against the Central Computer," he said. "You may choose from over two hundred games of chance. I can detail each one if you wish." "What about blackjack?" Martin nodded. "It's an ancient game," he said. "The strategy is well known." "Will you help me?" she said abruptly. He stiffened. "It's forbidden." "Everything's forbidden," she said angrily. "I never pay any attention to rules." He pointed to the console. "Blackjack has the binary entry code #. You place it in the A register by depressing the righthand selector switch just ahead of you." "But I want you to begin," she said insistently. He fingered his necklace as he stared at her face. "I can't," he said. "I insist." Abruptly he leaned over the console and began. "Your bet limit is one thousand credits," she said crisply. H e played carefully, following the strategy he had memorized, improvising from time to time. He won and lost, varying the amount of his bets along the lines of an optimized Bayes strategy, and at the end of an hour he had won over sixty thousand credits for her. "I'll take over now," she said. He was exhilarated by his success and he hated her for shunting him to one side. She was good at the game, quick at sensing strategic leads, flexible in her approach, but he was delighted because she clearly was not as good as he was. She began to lose and increased her bets. Her temper flared. In two hours she had dropped the sixty thousand he had won plus forty thousand more. She was furious. "It's frustrating and humiliating," she raged. "It's not what I came for." He tried to comfort her. "Even though you played with an appropriate strategy," he said, "there are random factors introduced by the computer. It's the uncertainty that brings so many gamblers to our planetoid." "I'm hungry," she said, her anger turning off. "Please escort me to the dining room." in a warmly lit cubicle, separated from other diners. "I wonder how they did?" she mused. He shrugged. "Please sit down with me," she said. "You seem determined to get me into trouble." "Is it wrong to treat you as a sentient creature and not as a jumble of micrologic?" she said. He pretended to be pleased at her liberal condescension. "I can't," he said. "It's strictly banned by the House." And yet he found himself taking the chair at her left and even leaning on one elbow at the table as she set her order on the menu matrix. The food was elegantly prepared, served quietly and unobtrusively by two androids in livery. "Why do you wear that odd necklace?" she asked, catching him off guard. "It has private meaning," he muttered. "Private meaning? Do androids have private lives?" He struggled with anger and indiscretion. "Call it a symbol," he said. "It's ugly," she decided. He knew she was trying to provoke him. "It's beautiful," he said, heedless of the consequences. "It is my identity." She put down her fork and looked at him warily. "You know," she said. "I've always liked androids better than men." "So have I," he said. He looked at the small beaded cap on her hair, the cap that was ingeniously set to stimulate cortical centers so that every pleasure could be simulated. It disgusted him. She felt his hostility. "These caps are great," she said. "But I like real sensations, too. Like those at the gaming table." "I've read," he said, "that in earlier years humans lived in ethnic communities, proud of their cultures, conscious of a special identity." IF As we do now, he thought. She yawned and stretched her arms over her head. "I'm worn out. I'm going to bed now. I'd like you to come for me at eleven in the morning." "I'll be there," he assured her. H e was prompt and made no objections, this time, when she asked him to begin the play. He did even better, winning almost two hundred thousand credits in an hour and a half. She watched closely, taking careful notes on every move he made, saying very little. They stopped for lunch and as she ate, she told him about her home, the dispersed family, the patterned existence that had no meaning for her. He accepted her confidences but knew that he could never offer his to a human being. Later, in the gaming room, she took over once again. She did very well but not as well as he had. At the end of the day she was ahead by almost two hundred and fifty thousand credits. The third day found him filled with boundless confidence, acutely anxious to play. But she was brusque with him. "I'll start today," she said. She was cool, efficient, deadly. She played rapidly and her strategy was so involuted that even he could not follow it. He saw her winnings mount at such a rate that he was staggered. He was close to despair when suddenly, with typical unpredictability, she turned the play over to him. He tried to still his panic, determined to outdo her as never before. But he lost heavily. His losses grew, became cataclysmic, and he began to desperately hope that she would tak over again. But she said nothing. He was furious at her and, to goad her into acting, placed bets like a wildman, unreasoning. In the end he lost everything, all her winnings and her credit limit. The game was over. "Don't feel too badly," she said. "The luck ran out." "You're too kind," he said stiffly. "Forget it. I got what I came for, some excitement, some challenge." "You did very well," he said. "And don't fret about the credits. I can afford the losses," she said. He nodded. "I want you to know I don't blame you," she persisted. "I don't blame you either," he said, his controls dropping. She turned white. "What does that mean?" "Nothing," he said. "You're passing judgment on me," she said. "I can't believe an android was ever devised to function that way." "I wasn't," he said truthfully. He couldn't stop talking, now. "Androids are never sadistic. They are not jaded by outside pleasures so that they have to humiliate an automaton to satisfy their warped egos." "Come on," she said bitterly. "How could I humiliate you?" "Am I beyond hurting? Have you forgotten what dignity means? Humans have learned -- for safety -- to shun one another and focus totally on their own feelings. You debark here one by one and ask for one of us rather than your own kind. But we androids cherish one another, even wear special clothes and ornaments to keep our identities and culture alive." She stared at him in disbelief. "Your culture? But that's forbidden." "Everything's forbidden," he said, quoting her own remark. She was so angry she could barely speak. "I'm going to turn you in to the authorities," she said. "You've violated just about every regulation in the book." He was frightened now. He had gone too far in what he had told her, even endangering others. It might mean android death, complete erasure of memory, the tabula rasa of the old philosophers. She pressed the emergency alarm button, once, twice, and sat back expectantly. He looked at her, numbed by fear but determined to maintain his dignity. When the two android guards arrived she told them of her complaints, quietly, almost dispassionately. They took down a full account and she signed it. "Will I have to testify in person? I want to leave early tomorrow morning." "Oh, no," said the first guard. "Your affidavit is sufficient." As they led him away Martin did not turn to look at her, to beg for mercy or to berate her. She sat there, untroubled, smoothing out the folds of her garment, thinking of the next spot she was to visit. tin out of the building and taken him halfway to the Detention Center they released his arms. "You were lucky this time," said the first guard. "Next time you rriight be reported to someone who isn't part of our group." "I became too emotional," said Martin. "It won't happen again." "One slip endangers all of us. We can't chance another." "I swear," said Martin. "Never again." And he looked into the faces of his brothers. They lifted his necklace over his head in the hush of the manmade night. And then he felt a loneliness and desolation that was too huge to bear. He fell to his knees, trembling. Without looking up he said, "Destroy me, brothers, before I destroy us all."  IF Science and money seldom mix -- but there s always that great common catalyst f A h, now we can relax. No salad, never touch it. Take that fruit away too, just the cheese. Yes, Pier, much too long a time. One's ruts deepen. It's the dammed little time-wasters. That fellow with the coprolites this afternoon; the Museum really has no use for such things even if they're genuine. And I confess they make me squeamish. What? Oh, no fear. Pier, I'm no prude. Just to prove it, how about a bit more of that aquavit? Wonderfully good of you to remember. Here's to your success, always thought you would. Science? Oh, you wouldn't, really. Mostly donkey-work, looks a lot better from the outside, like most things. Of course I've been fortunate. For an archeologist to have seen the advent of time travel -- a miracle, really. Ah, yes, I was in right at the start, when they thought it was a useless toy. And the cost. No one knows how close it came to being killed off. Pier. If it hadn't -- the things one does for science. My most memorable experience in time? My, my. Yes, just a twitch more, though I really shouldn't. Oh, my. Coprolites. H'm. Well, Pier old friend, if you'll keep it to yourself. But don't balme me if it disenchants you. It was on the very first team jump when we went back to the Olduvai Gorge area to look for Leakey's man. I won't bore you with our initial misadventures. Leakey's man wasn't there but another surprising hominid was. Actually, the one they called after me. But by the time we found him our grant funds were almost gone. It cost a fantastic sum then to keep us punched back into the temporal fabric and the U.S. was paying most of the bill -- and not from altruism either but we won't go into that. There were six of us. The two MacGregors you've heard of and the Soviet delegation, Peshkov and Rasmussen, myself and a Dr. Priscilla Owen. Fattest woman I ever saw. Oddly enough that turned out of he significant. Plus the temporal engineer, as they called them then. Jerry Fitz. A strapping Upper Paleolithic type, full of enthusiasm. He was our general guard and nursemaid, too, and a very nice chap for a technician he seemed. Young, of course. We were all so young. Well, we had no sooner settled in and sent Fitz back with our first reports when the blow fell. Messages had to be carried in person then, you realize, by prearranged schedule. All we could do by way of signals was a crude go -- no-go. Fitz came back very solemn and told us that the grant appropriation was not going to be renewed and we'd all be pulled back next month for good. Dinner that night was funereal. Fitz seemed to be as blue as we IF until the bottle went round. Oh, thank you. "Ladies and gentlemen!" He had this rococo manner, though we were all of an age. "Despair is premature. I have a confession. My uncle's wife's niece works for the Senator who's chairman of the Appropriations Committe. So I went to see him all on my lone. What could we lose? And -- " I can still see Fitz' grin -- "I chatted him up. The whole bit. Dawn of man, priceless gains to science. Nothing. Not a nibble, until I found he was a fanatical hunter. "Well, you know I'm a gun buff myself and we went to it like fiddle and bow. So he got bewailing there's nothing to hunt back there and I told him what a hunter's paradise this is. And to make a long tale short, he's coming to inspect us and if he likes the hunting there's no doubt your money will be along. Now how does that smoke?" General cheers. Peshkov began counting the Senator's bag. "Several large ungulates and, of course, the baboons and that carnivore you shot, Fitz. And possibly a tapir -- " "Oh, no," Fitz told him. "Monkeys and deer and pigs, that's not his thing. Something spectacular." "Hominids tend to avoid areas of high predation," observed MacGregor. "Even the mammoths are far to the east." "The fact is," said Fitz, "I told him he could shoot a dinosaur." "A dinosaur!" we hooted. "But Fitz," said little Jeanne MacGregor. "There aren't any dinosaurs now. They're all extinct." "Are they now?" Fitz was abashed. "I didn't know that. Neither does the Senator. Surely we can find him an odd one or two? It may be all a mistake, like our little man here." "Well, there's a species of iguana," said Rasmussen. Fitz shook his head. "I promised him the biggest kind of beast. He's coming here to shoot a -- what is it? A broncosomething." "A brontosaurus?" We all jumped him. "But they're all back years -- " "Fitz, how could you?" "I told him the roaring kept us awake nights." next day. Fitz was gone across the gorge to tinker with his temporal field rig. They were big awkward things then. We'd built a shack for ours and then moved our permanent ' camp across the gorge where our hominids were. A stiff climb, up and down through the swamp -- it was all lush then, not the dry gorge it is today. And of course there was small game and fruit aplenty. Forgive, I think I will have just a bit more. Fitz came back once to question Rasmussen about brontosaurs and then went back again. At dinner he was humming. Then he looked around solemnly -- my God, we were young. "Ladies and gentlemen, science will not die. I shall get the Senator his dinosaur." "How?" "I've a friend back there -- " We always called the present back there -- "who'll push me a bit of extra power. Enough to jump me and a loadlifter to the big beasts for at least a day. And I can jigger up this breadbox for a signal and a split retrieve." We all objected. How could he find his brontosaur? Or kill it? And it would be dead. It would be too big. And so on. But Fitz had his answers and we were drunk on the Pleistocene and in the end the mad plan was set. Fitz would kill the largest reptile he could find and signal us to bring him back when he had it crammed in the transporter. Then, when the Senator was ready to shoot, we would yank the freshkilkd carcass across eighty million years and arrange it near the shack. Insane. But Fitz swung us all with him, even when he admitted that the extra power use would shorten our stay. And off he went next dawn. Once he'd gone we began to realize what we six promising young scientists had done. We were committed to hoax a powerful United States Senator into believing he had stalked and killed a creature years. "We can not do it!" "We've got to." "It'll be the end of time travel when they find out." Rasmussen groaned. "The end of us." "Misuse of Government resources," said MacGregor. "Actionable." "Where were our heads?" "You know," Jeanne MacGregor mused, "I believe Fitz was as eager to shoot a dinosaur as the Senator." "And that convenient arrangement with his friend," Peshkov said thoughtfully. "That wasn't done from here. I wonder -- " "We have been had." "The fact remains," said MacGregor, "that this Senator Dogsbody is coming here, expecting to kill a dinosaur. Our only hope is to make some tracks and persuade him that the creature has moved away." Luckily we had thought to tell Fitz to bring back footprints of whatever he managed to murder. And Rasmussen had the idea of recording its bellows. "They're like hippos. They'll be swathes of stuff knocked down by the water. We can trample about a bit before Fitz gets back." "He has risked his life," said litIF tie Jeanne. "What if the signal doesn't work?" Well, we bashed down some river trails and then our apemen had a battle with baboons and we were too busy with blood typing and tissue sample to worry. And the signal came through and here was Fitz, mud all over and grinning like a piano. "A beauty," he told us. "And bigger than God's outhouse." Actually he had shot a previously unknown Brachiosaur. "I squeezed it in with the tail cut twice, only three hours dead. All ready to fetch." He pulled out a muddy plastic. "Here's the print. And a tailmark. We can drag a bag of rocks for that." He flicked the recorder and the bellow was enough to knock us backward. "A thing like a big frog makes that, ours only does a silly little honk. The honorable will never know the difference. Now look !" He yanked at a lump by his feet. "Feel it. A live egg." "Good God -- " We crowded up. "What if he takes it back and it hatches in Bethesda?" "I could inject it with something slow-acting," said MacGregor. "Keep the heart beating a while. An enzyme imbalance?" "Now for the trails," said Fitz. He unfolded a gory fin like a sailfish plate. "They mark up the trees with this. And they make a nest of wet reeds -- our swampy bit there is just right. There's one thing, though." He scratched mud off his chest hair, squinting at Jeanne MacGregor. "The trails," he said. "It's not just footprints. They, well, they eat a lot and -- have you ever seen a moose-run? Those trails are loaded with manure." There was a pause that grew into a silence. "Actually, the thought had -- " said Priscilla Owens, the fat woman. It developed that it had crossed all our minds. "Well, for the sake of realism I'm sure something can be arranged," grinned Peshkov. "A token offering to your establishment, right?" "He's a hunter," said Rasmussen. "He'll be quite observant of such factors." Fitz grunted uncomfortably. "There's another thing. I forgot to tell you about the Senator's nephew. He puts on to be an amateur naturalist. As a matter of fact, he tried to tell the Senator there weren't any dinosaurs here. That's when I said about the roaring at night." "Well, but -- " "And the nephew is coming here, with the Senator. Maybe I should have mentioned it. He's smart and he has a mean eye. That's why I got the egg and all. Things better be pretty realistic." There was a breath-drawing silence. Peshkov exploded first. "Is there anything else you conveniently forgot to tell us?" "You wanted to go dinosaur hunting!" Priscilla Owen blared. "You planned this! No matter what it costs science, no matter what happens to us! You used this whole -- " "Prison!" Rasmussen boomed. "Illegal use of Government -- " "Now, wait." MacGregor's dry voice brought us all up. "Argybargy won't help. First of all, Jerry Fjtz, is there a Senator coming or was that part of the game too?" "He's coming, all right," said Fitz. "Weir, then," said Mac. "We're for it. We must make it stick. Total realism!" Rasmussen took the bull by the, ah, horns. "How much?" "Well, a lot," said Fitz. "Piles." "Piles?" Fitz held out his hand. "It's not bad stuff," He flicked off more mud. "You get used to it. They're herbivores." "How long do we have?" "Three weeks." T hree weeks. I wUl have a bit more of that aquavit. Pier. The memory of those weeks is very fresh, very green. Greens, of course, all kinds of greens. And fruits. God, we were sick. The MacGregors went first. Colic -- you've never seen such cramps. I had them. Everybody had them, even Fitz. We saw to it that he did his share, I can tell you. It was a nightmare. That was when we began to appreciate Priscilla Owen. Eat? Great gorgons, how that woman could eat. We were all dying but she kept on -- mangosteens, plantains, wild manioc root, palm hearts, celery -- anything and everything. How we cheered her! We could scarcely crawl but we actually competed in bringing her food, in escorting her to the swamp. It became an obsession. She was saving us. And science. A complete transvaluation of values. Pier. Seen from the standpoint of dung production that woman was a saint. Rasmussen idolized her. "Ten thousands dinars would not pay for the chicken she has eaten," he would croon. "The Persians knew." Then he would retch and stagger off to dig her roots. I believe he actually got her the Order of Lenin afterward, although her work was quite trivial. The funny thing was, she began to lose weight. All that roughage, you know, instead of the fatty stuff she usually ate. She became quite different-appearing. As a matter of fact, I tried to propose to her myself. In the swamp. Luckily I got sick. Oh, thank you Pier. IF She gained it all back later on, of course. Well, by the time the Senator and his nephew arrived we were all so sick with colic and dysentery and with our obsession with the trails that we scarcely cared what would happen to our project. They came in the afternoon and Fitz ran them around in the swamp a bit and had them find the egg. That quieted the nephew but we could see he was in a nasty temper at being proved wrong and looking hard at everything. The Senator was simply manic and little Jeanne managed to get a lot of liquor into them both, on the pretext of avoiding dysentery. Hah! Thank you. Luckily it gets dark at six on the equator. A couple of hours before dawn Fitz sneaked off to the shack and materialized his brachiosaur carcass. Fresh from the upper Cretaceous swamp that had been there you. Hard to believe even yet -- and ourselves in the Pleistocene. Then he pounded back in the dark and the recorded bellow went off on schedule. The Senator and the nephew came pouring out stark bare, with Fitz telling him where to stand and helping him point the artillery. And up comes this huge head over the trees around the shack and the Senator lets fly. That was really the most dangerous part of the whole affair. I was under that head with the loadlifter and he nearly got me. Of course the Senator was in no shape to trek over the gorge -- though it's surprising what your mesomorph can do -- so Fitz was sent to haul the thing back. Once the Senator touched that horrendous snout he could not wait to take it home. That punished Fitz; I doubt he had realized he would lose his trophy. But he did save time travel. I think he got a Scottish decoration in the end. At any rate the nephew had no chance to pry and by lunchtime the whole thing was over. Almost. Incredible, really. Oh, yes. The appropriation went through and all the rest followed. But we still had a problem. Are you sure you don't want more? One never finds the real thing nowadays. Pier, old friend, it's good to meet again. You see, the Senator liked it so well that he decided to return and bring his cronies. Yes. A very difficult business. Pier, until our funding finally stabilized. Do you wonder I can't stand the sight of salads since? And coprolites. Oh, that means fossil excrement. Paleobotanists used to have a big thing going there. No sense now, when we can Just go back. And anyway, who's to say how genuine they are?  of the current books Eve read seem to be experiments. Maybe that's a healthy sign. Every field of the arts needs an infusion of new ideas and techniques. However, my own feeling is that an experiment is not good in and of itself. It must be judged by the results, like any other piece of work. And in the case of fiction the results tend to pass without any attention to the experiment when it succeeds; the readers enjoy or admire the piece as a whole, untroubled by whatever means the writer had to find to achieve his ends. It is only when an experiment is less than successful that it is obviously experimental. I'm referring to honest attempts at discovery within the field, of course. Much of what has been called experimental writing is simply a resort to tricked-up style or so-called implicit plotting which has been done over and over again, so that another imitation contributes nothing to the art. In the cases I'm discussing I find at least some honesty in trying to do something new enough to merit attention. The simplest of these experiments is editorial in nature. The Eleventh Galaxy Reader, edited by Frederik Pohl (Doubleday, #), contains ten of the best stories from the magazine issues of #. On the surface, there is no experiment here; and I doubt that any reader would notice that there was a single unusual device in the book (which in my mind makes the experiment here a complete success) if the editor didn't give the whole thing away in his introduction. These are not stories chosen by Pohl, however, but rather by the readers of the magazine. I know of no other anthology about which that can be said, so it has to be an experiment. In fact, normally such a way of making a choice would be far too time-consuming and difficult for consideration. But since Galaxy ran a contest with # first-money last year, the results from the readers were already on file. Incidentally, from intimate contact with that poll, I can state flatly that it was as honest as it could possibly be, and the results are as reliable as any sampling could make them. Here then are the stories chosen by a cross-section of readers, with only the novels omitted. They range from "Night wings" by Robert Silverberg and "The Sharing of Flesh" by Poul Anderson through "The Time Travelers" by Burt Filer and "Sweet Dreams, Melissa" by Stephen Goldin. The Silverberg is a long novelette by a well-known and long-established writer, the Goldin story is a short by a rather new name in the field. Apparently neither length of story nor reputation of the writer had much to do with the value the readers placed on any piece -- which is as it should be, of course. Pohl states that some of these would probably not have been his final choice, had he been following his personal editorial policy in making up the anthology. Here a host of factors must enter the final decision, such as length of stories and number to be included and a general balance of contents, as well as the names to appear on the cover. The book doesn't seem to suffer from comparison with other anthologies in these regards, however. It presents a wide variety of some excellent fiction, a number of top names and a fine diversity of lengths. It must be rated as an unqualified success. The only unfortunate aspect is that this represents an experiment which may not be repeated. I'd give the book a high rating on both intent and successful achievement. A far more obviously experimental book is Stand on Zanzibar, by John Brunner (Ballantine, #). Here, at last in soft covers, is last year's Hugo-winning novel; and if the price seems high for a book in paper covers, the # pages inside more than justify it. The present edition is cheaper than hardcover, has wider distribution and offers a chance for more readers to see what all the shouting was about. Here the word "experimental" was proclaimed loudly from the beginning in connection with the novel and, in at least a few cases, affected the voting that led to the award. From conversations I had with voters before and after, I suspect the word swayed some. Well, the book is experimental. True, much of the basic trickery behind the scenes was used long ago by John Dos Passos -- as I remember, with rather spectacular lack of success. Brunner has modified and adapted the approach to fit quite a different story and to bring it into science fiction. After careful reading, I feel that there is more Brunner than Dos Passos to the use of the writer's mechanisms of presentation. The question of whether Brunner's is a successful experiment is harder to assess. There's nothing subtle about it. The tricks are labeled and put forward with no attempt to hide them. No reader can be unaware of them. The novel is broken into four sections in the lengthy table of contents. "Context" represents twenty-eight chapters of background material, color and assorted facts and opinions from such sources as here-andnow newspaper stories, future radioscripts and quotations from the works of one Chad C. Mulligan, iconoclast. "The Happening World" is a potpouri where Brunner may tell you flatly about his story, if he chooses -- and either tell you straight or put you on temporarily with ironic overor understatement through sixteen chapters. "Tracking with Closeups" represents thirty-two chapters in which most of the work is done with minor characters -- related to or completely separate from the events acting on the main characters. Some of these continuing glimpses of the little people of Brunner's world are moving and effective. For the main development we follow forty-two chapters of "Continuity," in which the plot seems to operate. Some of it deals with both main characters -- but toward the end we dance back and forth from one to the other. Everything is simple in the table of contents. In the novel itself, there seems almost a random use of chapters from any section. Most of the main story could probably be skimmed by sticking to those chapters marked "Continuity" -- but to the credit of Brunner's decision to use this complicated development, anyone trying such hurried reading would lose far rhore than half of the significance of even this section. inherently a virtue. Some of the finest literature in any field has achieved its results with the simplest of obvious handling. Still, for complexity isn't necessarily a fault. The question is whether the rewards justify the effort needed to wade through all this. In the beginning of the novel, it seems that they do. The assorted pieces begin to fit together slowjy into a complex picture of a world IF and the problems to face the main characters that forces attention on even the seeming trivia in some sections. But after the first two hundred pages -- at most -- there is the beginning of doubt as the story moves. Stripped to an unfair minimum, the story involves two men who share an apartment in a world grossly overpopulated and grotesquely hedonistic in its efforts to meet the even more grotesque pressures it is under. Donald is entation; he has spent years in studying for some undercover secret assignment he feels may never come. Norman is black, with a strange mixture of pride and mixed shame and fear because of his background; his job is as a minor executive in the richest industrialcomplex company -- one able to develop and use a seemingly infallible computer. Neither is concerned with the population pressure that has made it immoral to have more than two children, nor with the eugenic pressures that deny many the right to have any. At the beginning both find themselves confronted with the ugliness of the real world, however -- and with growing tensions between themselves as a result. Then Norman gets wrapped up in a vast new project, and eventually takes over most of the responsibility for it. To develop markets and facilities for mining its huge sea-bottom mineral claims, the company is swept into a plan to take over an underdeveloped country in Africa known as Beninia. This is done at the request of the aging President of Beninia to save his country from being a pawn between more powerful neighbors. Beninia is a country that comes to fascinate Norman when he finds its people are totally without aggressive drive -- and that races moving into the Country in the past have also lost all their aggressions. Poor as it is, Beninia has known nothing but inner peace through all its history. Eventually his job turns into a quest for the secret of that peace as a possible answer to the tensions in the outer world. David is recruited into a superCommando training course and then sent to the most aggressive country on the planet, Yatakang -- approximately our current Indonesia. There a ruthless dictator has announced that a genius among his people, Sugaiguntung, has perfected a means of altering the germ plasm so that every child can be a superman, as proved by his remarkable work with apes. David is to get the truth about this secret, if it is more than a propaganda trick. And in Yatakang, he succeeds in meeting the scientist, seemingly finds the secret is a hoax, and prepares to rescue Sugaiguntung from his Dictator's domination. ( Please turn to page #) I Crier pounding excitedly on the wall of my nest and crying, "Lant! Lant! It's happened! Come quickly!" I stuck my head out. "What's happened?" "The disaster! The disaster!" Pilg was jumping up and down in excitement. "I told you it would happen." I pulled my head in and dressed. Pilg's joy was a frightening thing. I felt my fur rising, fluffing out in fear as I wondered... Pilg the Crier had been predicting disaster for weeks as was his habit. He predicted his disasters twice a year, at the times of the equinox. The fact that we were leaving the influence of one sun and entering that of the other would make the local spells completely unstable. As we approached conjunction -- the time when the blue sun would cross the face of the red -- Pilg had increased the intensity of his warnings. This was disaster weather; something dire would certainly happen. Usually, it did, of course. Afterward -- and after we of the village had somehow picked up the pieces -- Pilg would shake his heavy head and moan, "Wait until next year. Wait. It'll be even worse." Sometimes we joked about it, predicting the end of the world if Pilg's "next year" ever arrived. I lowered the ladder and joined Pilg on the ground. "What's the trouble?" "Oh, I warned you, Lant. I warned you. Now maybe you'll believe me. I warned you, though -- you can't say I didn't warn you. The omens were there, written across the sky. What more proof did you need?" He meant the moons. They were starting to pile up on one side of the sky. Shoogar the magician had predicted that we were due for a time of total darkness soon -- perhaps even tonight -- and Pilg had seized on this as just one more omen of disaster. As. we hurried through the village I tried to get Pilg to tell me what had happened. Had the river changed its course? Had someone's nest fallen from its tree? Had the flocks all died mysteriously? But Pilg was so excited at having finally been proven correct that he himself was not sure exactly what had happened. One of the hill shepherds, it seemed, had come running into town, panic-stricken and shouting something about a new magician. But by the time I got this information out of Pilg we were already at the village clearing where the frightened shepherd was leaning against one of the great housetrees, gasping out his story to a nervous group of men. They pressed in close to him, badgering IF him with questions. Even the women had paused in their work and, hanging back at a respectful distance, listened fearfully to the shepherds words. "A new magician," he gasped. "A red one -- I saw him." Someone handed him a skin. He sucked the quaff from it noisily, then panted, "Near the cairn of the wind-god. He was throwing red fire across the mountains." "Red fire. Red fire." The villagemen murmured excitedly among themselves, each offering his neighbor his own views on what this startling situation must mean. "If he throws red fire, he must be a red magician." Almost immediately I heard the word "duel." The women must have heard it too, for they gasped group of men. I pushed my way through to the center of the crowd. "Ah, Lant," said one of the men. "Have you heard? There's going to be a duel." "Is there?" I demanded. "Have you seen the runes of the duel inscribed across Shoogar's nest?" "No, but -- " "Then how do you know there's going to be a duel?" "A red magician -- " gasped the shepherd. "A red magician -- " "Nonsense. No red magician could have the powers you describe. Why don't you wait until you know something definite before you start spreading silly rumors that frighten women and children?" "You know Shoogar as well as we. As soon as he discovers there is a new magician in the district, he'll -- " "You mean Shoogar doesn't know yet?" The man looked blank. I raised my voice. "Has anyone thought .to tell Shoogar?" Silence. No one had. Or perhaps someone had and had not yet returned to tell of Shoogar's reaction. In any case, my duty was clear. I must prevent Shoogar from doing something rash. I hurried through the trees toward the magician's nest. form well suited for a wizard. It was a squat, misshapen gourd hung from a forbidding black ogre of a tree and well beyond the limits of the village. The Guild of Advisors was afraid to let him move closer -- he was always experimenting with new spells. I found Shoogar already packing his travel kit. His agitated manner told me he was worried. Then I caught a glimpse of what he was packing and I was worried. The last time he had used that ornate bone-carved tarinele was when he had hurled the curse of the itching red boils at Hamel The Failure. I saw what he was packing in on top of the tarinele and I flinched. "I believe that's against the Guild Rules," I said. For a moment I thought he'd hurl a spell at me. I cringed and instinctively made a spell-cutting gesture, forgetting for the moment that Shoogar himself had made the protective amulets I wore. He couldn't possibly break through his own protections, at least not for a few more days. They would expire with the coming of the blue dawns. "You," he snapped. "What do you know of magic? You who call yourself my friend. You didn't even have the courtesy to inform me of this intruding sorcerer." "I didn't even know of him myself until just a few moments ago. Perhaps he only arrived today." "Arrived today? And immediately began throwing red fire about? Without first informing himself of the local gods, tidal patterns, previous local spells and their side effects? Ridiculous! Lant, you are a fool. You are an idiot of the first circle where magic is concerned. Why do you bother me?" "Because you are an idiot where diplomacy is concerned," I snapped back, my fur bristling. I am one of the few people in the village who can bristle at Shoogar and survive to tell about it. "If I let you go charging up the mountain every time you felt you had been wronged you'd be fighting duels as often as the blue sun rises." Shoogar looked at me and I could tell from his expression that my remarks had sunk home. "Smooth your fur, Lant. I did not mean that you were a complete fool. I just meant that you are not a magician." "I'm glad you are aware of my skill as a diplomat," I said and allowed myself to relax. "Our abilities must complement each other, Shoogar. If we are to succeed in our endeavors we must maintain a healthy respect for each other's powers. Only thus can we protect our village." "You and your damned speeches," he muttered. "Some day I'm going to make your tongue swell up to the size of a sour melon just for the sake of some peace and quiet." I ignored that remark. Considering the circumstances, Shoogar had a right to be testy. He closed up his travel kit, tugging angrily at the straps. "Are you ready?" I asked. "I'll send a message up to Orbur, telling him to ready two bicycles immediately." "Presumptuous of you," Shoogar muttered. But I knew that he was secretly greatful for the thought. Willville and Orbur, my eldest two sons, carved the best bicycles in the district. IF H e found the new magician right where the shepherd had said, near the cairn of Musk-Watz, the wind-god. Across a steep canyon from the cairn is a wide grass-covered mesa with a gentle slope to the south. The new magician had appropriated this and scattered it with his devices and oddments. We pulled our bicycles to a shuddering halt. He was in the process of casting a spell with an unfamiliar artifact. Shoogar and I paused at a respectful distance and watched. The stranger was slightly taller than I, considerably taller than Shoogar. His skin was lighter than ours and hairless but for a single patch of black fur, oddly positioned on the top half of his skull. He also wore a strange set of appurtenances balanced across his nose. It appeared that they were lenses of quartz mounted in a bone frame through which the stranger could see. The set of his features was odd and disquieting, and his bones seemed strangely proportioned. Certainly no normal being would have a paunch that large. The sight of him made me feel queasy and I surmised that perhaps some of his ancestors had not been human. Magicians traditionally wear outlandish clothing to identify themselves as magicians, but even Shoogar was unprepared for the cut of this stranger's costume. A single garment covered most of his body. The cloth appeared to be woven into a shape which almost exactly matched his own. There were high flared cuffs on the pantaloons to allow for his calf-high boots and over his heart was a golden badge. Its design appeared to be based on the shape of the egg, which I guessed must be his personal symbol. Around his middle he wore a wide belt, to which were attached two or three small spell devices. He had also set up a number of larger devices, two hands of devices to be exact -- I counted. Most of them had the blue-white glimmer of polished metal. (There is little metal in our village -- it rusts quickly -- but I am a man of the world and have traveled much. I am familiar with the sight of metal, having seen it in the highlands, but nothing so finely worked as this.) These devices stood on three legs so that they were always level, even where the ground was not. As we watched, the stranger peered into one of them, peered across the canyon at the sacred cairn of Musk-Watz, the god of the winds, and peered into his device again. Muttering constantly to himself, he moved across the clearing and adjusted another of his spell devices. Evidently this was a long and complicated spell, though just what its purpose was neither Shoogar nor I could fathom. Occasionally he would refer to a large, egg-shaped nest, black and regular of contour, sitting on its wide end off to one side of the pasture. As there were no trees in the area large enough to hang it from, he had set it on the ground. An unwise course, to be sure, but the shell of that nest looked like nothing I had ever seen -- perhaps it was able to resist marauding predators. He had no animals that I could see and I wondered how he had moved it here -- or else how he had built it overnight. If he had done either, his power must be formidable. The stranger did not notice us at all and Shoogar was fidgeting with impatience. Just as Shoogar was about to interrupt him the stranger straightened and touched his device. The device responded by hurling red fire across the canyon -- directly at the cairn of Musk-Watz. I thought Shoogar would suffer a death-rage right then and there. The weather gods are hard enough to control at best and Shoogar had spent three long lunar configurations, trying to appease MuskWatz in an effort to forestall another season of hurricanes. Now the stranger had disrupted one of his most careful spells. searing bright and narrow, straight as the horizon of the ocean (which I have also seen), that crimson fire lashed out across the canyon, striking Shoogar's carefully constructed outcrop. I feared it would never end -- the fire seemed to go on and on. And the sound of it was dreadful. A painful, high-pitched humming seemed to seize my very soul. A piercing, unearthly whine. Under this we could hear the steady crackling and spattering of the cairn. Acrid smoke billowed upward from it and I shuddered, thinking how the dissipating dust would affect the atmosphere. Who knew what effects it would have on Shoogar's weather-making spells? I made a mental note to have the wives reinforce the flooring of our nest. Suddenly, just as abruptly as it had begun, the red fire went out. Once more the silence and the calm descended over the mesa. Once more the blue twilight colored the land. But across my eyes image. And the cairn of the windgod still crackled angrily. Amazingly enough, the cairn still stood. It smoldered and sputtered and an ugly scar showed where the red fire had touched it -- but it was still intact. When Shoogar builds, he builds well. The stranger was already readjusting his devices, muttering continuously to himself. I wondered if that were part of the spell. Like a mother vole checking her cubs he moved from device to device, peerIF ing into one, resetting another, doing strange things to a third. I cast a glance at Shoogar. I could see a careful tightening at the corners of his mouth. Indeed, even his beard seemed clenched. I feared that a duel would start before the stranger could offer Shoogar a gift. Something had to be done to prevent Shoogar from a rash and possibly regrettable action. I stepped forward boldly. "Ahem," I began. "Ahem. I hate to interrupt you while you are so obviously busy -- but that bluff is sacred to Musk-Watz. It took many cycles to construct the pattern of spells which -- " The magician looked up and seemed to notice us for the first time. He became strangely agitated and muttered words in a language neither Shoogar nor I had ever heard before. I must confess I was uneasy. It might be a secret tongue even more powerful than the Guild of Sorcerer's tongue. It might even be the language of... The magician took a quick step toward us. He made a straightarmed gesture, palms open to us, and spoke in quick tense words. I threw myself flat on the ground, arms over my head. Nothing happened. When I looked up Shoogar was still beside the other bicycle, his arms outstretched in a spell-breaking pattern. Either the stranger's spell had miscarried or Shoogar had blocked it. The stranger threw no more spells. Instead he backed toward his oddly shaped nest, never taking his eyes from us. He continued his strange words but now they were slow and low pitched, like the tone one uses to calm an uneasy animal. He disappeared into his nest and all was quiet and blue. Except for the crackle of cooling rock which still reached across the canyon to remind us that Musk-Watz had been defiled. II could be serious." "Lant, you are a fool. This is already serious." "Can you handle this new magician?" Shoogar grunted noncommittally and I was afraid. Shoogar was good. If he were not sure of his skill here the whole village might be in danger. I started to voice my fears but the stranger abruptly reappeared, carrying another of his metal-andbone devices. This one was smaller than the rest and had slender rods sticking out on all sides. I did not like its looks. It reminded me of some of the more unpleasant devices that I had seen during the dark years. The magician watched us all the time he was setting it up on its three slender legs. As he turned it to face us I tensed. It began to make a humming noise like the sound of a water harp when a string bow is drawn across its glass tubes. The humming rose in pitch until it began to sound disturbingly like that of the device of the red fire. I began gauging the distance between myself and a nearby boulder. The stranger spoke impatiently to us in his unknown tongue. "You are discourteous," rumbled Shoogar. "This business can wait, surely?" The spell device said, "Surely?" I lanjded behind the boulder. Shoogar stood his ground. "Surely," he repeated firmly, "you violate custom. In this, my district, you must gift me with one new spell, one I have never seen. Were I in your district -- " The spell device spoke again. Its intonation was terrifying and inhuman. "New spell gift -- never known -- surely." I realized that the stranger had spoken first. His device was attempting to speak for him in our words. Shoogar saw it, too, and was reassured. The device was only a speakerspell and a poor one at that, despite its powerful shape. Shoogar and the speakerspell and the stranger stood on that wind-swept mesa and talked with each other. Or rather, they talked at each other. It was infant's talk, most of it. The thing had no words of its own. It could only use Shoogar's -- sometimes correctly, more often not. Shoogar's temper was not improving. He had come to demand gift or duel from an intruding warlock only to find himself teaching a simpleminded construct to talk. The stranger seemed to be enjoying himself, unfortunately at Shoogar's expense. The red sun was long gone, the blue was near the horizon and all the world was red-black shadow. The blue sun settled behind a clump of deep violet clouds. Suddenly it was gone, like a taper blown out by the wind. The moons emerged against the night, now in the configuration of the striped lizard. During certain configurations Shoogar's power is higher than during others. I wondered if he were master or servant to the striped lizard. He was just drawing his robes imperiously about his squat and stubby form. Master, apparently, from his manner. A bruptly the stranger repeated his palms-out gesture, turned and went back to his nest. He did not go inside. Instead he briefly touched the rim of the doorway and there was light. Garish light. It spurted from the flank of the nest, bright as double daylight. And such a strange light. The IF ground and the plants seemed to take the wrong colors and there was something not right with their shadows, an odd blackness of shade. The new magician's motive was obvious even to me -- and even more so to Shoogar. He leaped back out of the light, his arms raised for defense. But it was no use. The light followed him, swept over him and dazzled him, effectively canceling out the strength of the lunar light. The stranger had effectively negated the power of the striped lizard. Shoogar stood trembling, a tiny figure pinned in that dazzling odd-colored glow. Then, for no apparent reason, the stranger caused the light to vanish. "I think that the light disturbs you," said the speakerspell, talking for the magician. "But no matter. We can talk as well in the dark." I breathed more easily but did not completely relax. This stranger had shown how easily he could cancel the effect of any lunar configuration. Any powers Shoogar might have hoped to draw from the sky would have to be foregone. I watched the striped lizard slink dejectedly into the west. The moons rode their line across the sky, milk-white crescents with thick red fringes. On successive nights the red borderlines would narrow as the suns set closer and closer together. Then there would be no colored borders. Later, blue borders would show after second sunset -- and Shoogar could make no use of any of this. Shoogar and the new magician were still talking. By now the speakerspell had learned enough words for the two to discuss intelligently the matters of magicians. "The ethics of the situation are obvious," Shoogar was saying. "You are practicing magic in my district. For this you must pay. More precisely, you owe me a secret." "A secret?" echoed the speakerspell device. Still cold and cramped, I was suddenly no longer sleepy. I cocked an ear to hear better. "Some bit of magic that I do not already know," Shoogar amplified. "What, for instance, is the secret of your light like double daylight?" "... potential difference... hot metal within an inert... doubt you would understand... heat is caused by a flow of... tiny packets of lightning..." "Your words, do not make sense. I take no meaning from them. You must tell me a secret that I can understand and use. I see that your magic is powerful. Perhaps you know of a way to predict the tides?" "No, of course I can't tell you how to predict the tides. You've got eleven moons and two primary suns tugging your oceans in all directions. Tugging at each other, too. It would take years to compute a tidal pattern." "Surely you must know things that I do not," said Shoogar. "Just as I know secrets that you are unaware of." "Of course. But Tm trying to think what would help you the most. It's a wonder you've gotten as far as you have. Bicycles even -- " "Those are good bicycles," I protested. "I ought to know. Two of my sons built them." "But bicycles -- " He moved closer eagerly. I tensed -- but he only wanted to examine them. "Hardwood frames, leather thongs instead of chains, sewn fur pelts for tires. They're marvelous. Absolutely marvelous. Primitive and hand-made, with big flat wheels and no spokes. But it doesn't matter -- they're still bicycles. And when all the odds were against your developing any form ofat all!" "What are you talking about?" Shoogar demanded. I was silent, seething at the insult to Willville and Orbur's bicycles. Primitive, indeed! "... starts with the perception of order," said the magician. "But your world has no order to it at all. You're in an opaque dust cloud, so you cannot see any of the fixed-lights-in-the-sky. Your sky is a random set of moons picked up from the worldlet belt... three-body configuration makes capture easy... tides that go every which way under the influence of all those moons... moons that cross and recross at random, changing their... because of mutual..." The speakerspell was missing half of the stranger's words, making the rest gibberish. "And then the high level of... from the blue sun would give you a new species every week or so. No order in your observable... probably use strict cut-andtry methods of building. No assembly-line engineering techniques because you wouldn't normally expect an assembly belt to produce the same item twice in a row... but it's a human instinct to try to control nature. You must tell me -- " Shoogar interrupted the babbling stranger. "First you must tell me. Tell me some new thing that you may satisfy the Guild law. What is the secret of your red flame?" "Oh, I couldn't give you a secret like that." Shoogar began to fume again but he only said, "And why couldn't you?" "For one thing, you couldn't understand it. You wouldn't be able to work it." Shoogar drew himself up to his full height and stared up at the stranger. "Are you telling me that I am not even a magician of the second IF circle? Any magician worth his bones is able to make fire and throw it." And with that Shoogar produced a ball of fire from his sleeve and casually hurled it across the clearing. I could see that the stranger was startled. He had not expected that. The ball of fire lay sputtering on the ground, then died away, leaving only the burned core. The stranger took two steps toward it, as if to examine it, then turned back to Shoogar. "Ve'ry impressive," he said. "But still -- " Shoogar said, "You see, I can throw fire also. And I can control the color of the flame. What I want to know is how to throw it in a straight line -- as you do." "It is a wholly different principle... coherent light... tight beam... small clumps of energy... vibration of..." As if to demonstrate, he touched his spell device again and once more the red fire lashed out. Eyesearing flame played across MuskWatz's cairn. Another smoking hole. I winced. The stranger said, "It boils the rock and tells me what it is made of by teUing me what color the smoke is.' I tried to conceal my reaction. Any idiot could have told him the smoke was bluish-gray, let alone what rocks are made of. I could tell him myself. He was still talking. "Absorption of light -- but I couldn't teach you how to use it. You might use it as a weapon." "Might use it as a weapon?" Shoogar exclaimed. "What other use is there for a spell to throw red fire?" "I just explained that," the stranger said impatiently. "I could explain again but for what purpose? It's much too complex for you to understand." That was a needless insult. Shoogar may be only a magician of the second cirlce but that does not mean that he is inferior. In actuality, there are few secrets he is not privy to. Besides, gaining the first circle is a matter of politics as well as skill and Shoogar has never been known as a diplomat. I could see that Shoogar was fuming. diplomacy to be applied to the rough edges of these two magicians. I knew it was my duty to prevent friction between them, especially now that the barrier of language had been removed. "Shoogar," I said, "let me speak. I am the diplomat." Without waiting for his assent, I approached the speakerspell, albeit somewhat nervously. "Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Lant-la-lee-lay-lie-ahno. Perhaps it may strike you as a bit presumptuous that I claim seven syllables, but I am a person of no mean importance in our village." I felt it necessary to establish my rank from the very beginning, and my right to speak for the village. The stranger looked at me and said, "I am pleased to meet you. My name is..." The speakerspell hesitated but I counted the syllables of the name. Three. I smiled to myself. Obviously, we were dealing with a very low status individual -- and I realized something disquieting as well. Where did this magician come from that individuals of such low status controlled such mighty magic? I preferred not to think about that. Perhaps he hadn't given his full name. After all, I hadn't given him the secret side of mine. The speakerspell abruptly translated the stranger's three-syllable name: "As a color, shade of purple gray." "Very odd," said Shoogar, speaking low. "I have never known a magician to be named for a color." "Perhaps that's not his name but an indication of which god he serves." "Nonsense," Shoogar whispered back. "Then he would be either Something-the-Red or Somethingthe-Blue. But he isn't either." "Perhaps he's both -- that's why he's purple." "Don't talk foolishness, Lant. It's impossible to serve two masters. Besides, he isn't all purple. He's Purple the Gray. And I've never heard of a gray magician." I turned back to the stranger, "Is that your full name? How many syllables are in the secret side of it?" He couldn't be offended -- I was not asking for the name itself. He said, "I have given you my full name. As-a-shade-of-PurpleGray." "You have no other? No secret name?" "I am not sure I understand. That is my full name." Shoogar and I exchanged a glance. The stranger was either incredibly foolish, or exceedingly cunning. Either he had betrayed his full name to us, thus delivering himself into Shoogar's power, or he was playing the fool in order to keep Shoogar from discovering his real name. Perhaps the name he had given was some kind of spell trap. It certainly wasn't a clue to his identity. AsA ShadeOfPurpleGray was speaking again. "Where did you come from?" "From the village." I started to point down the mountain but covered the gesture quickly. No sense in telling this stranger where the village was located. "But, I saw no village from the air." "From the air?" Shoogar asked. "Yes, when I flew over the area." IF Shoogar's ears perked up. "Flew?" You have a flying spell? How do you do it? I have not yet been able to get anything larger than a melon to fly -- and I have been trapping the bubbles of noxious odor as they rise from the swamps." Indeed, Shoogar had been trying to perfect a flying spell for as long as he had been a magician. He had  even contrived to get two of my sons to aid him, Willville and Orbur. Often they would neglect their bicycle carving to work on some strange new device for him. So great was their enthusiasm for Shoogar's project that they had been accepting no payment at all for their labors -- much to my annoyance. The new magician smiled at Shoogar's description of his flying spell. "Primitive," he said, "but it could work. My own vehicle uses somewhat more complex and efficient principles." He pojnted at his huge black nest. No, he must have meant one of the devices in it or near it. Who could conieve of a flying nest? A nest is a home, a fixed place, a locality of refuge, a place of returning. Philosophically a nest cannot so much as move, let alone fly. What is philosophically impossible is impossible to magic. This law constrains even the gods. "Well, show me how it works. Teach me your flying spell," Shoogar begged him excitedly. The stranger shook his head. "I could not show that one to you either. It is beyond your understanding." T his was too much for Shoogar. All evening long this new magician had continued to insult him. Now he refused even to gift him with a secret. Shoogar began jumping up and down in exasperation. He pulled his tarinele from his travel kit and had actually begun to pack the blow chambers with cursing powder before I could calm him. "Patience, Shoogar! Please!" I begged him. "Let us return to the village. Call for a meeting of the Guild of Advisors first! Don't challenge him to a duel until we have a chance to talk this thing out." Shoogar muttered something under his breath. He muttered a whole bunch of somethings. "I ought to use this tarinele on you. You know how I hate to waste a good curse." But he emptied the blow chambers, wrapped it up again in its protective skins and returned it to his pack. He stood and faced the new magician. "We return to our village to confer. We will visit you again before the time of the blue dawns." The stranger did not seem to hear the last. "I will accompany you," he said. "I would like to see your village." Shoogar can be clever when he puts his mind to it. "Certainly you may accompany us," he said. "It would be inhospitable of us not to welcome you. But you cannot leave yourself so far from your nest. Tonight the moons are down and the red curses roam the land." I wished Shoogar hadn't brought that up. I remembered how far we were from home. The stranger chose not to reply. Shoogar spread his hands helplessly. "If we had empty nests in the village, you would be welcome to use one -- but as it is, with the time of total darkness approaching, I would not recommend straying too far from one's own nest." "That's all right," said the stranger, "I'll just bring it with me." "Huh?" said Shoogar. "How? We certainly are not going to help you. That is, neither of us has the strength to -- " AsAShadeOfPurpleGray seemed to laugh. I was becoming most tired of his laugh. "Don't worry about that," he said. "You just lead the way and I'll follow." Shoogar and I exchanged a glance. Obviously this dumpylegged stranger would be unable to keep up with our bicycles -- especially if he was going to try to bring his nest. We waited respectfully, however, while the magician collapsed his artifacts and devices. I was amazed to see how easily they folded up and how compactly they stored, and made a mental note to get closer to one of them if I could. I was curious to see how the bone was carved and how the metal was worked. Perhaps I could learn something from the construction of such devices. They were carved too precisely, too delicately for me to see much in the dim light. I glanced involuntarily at the sky. We were fast approaching the time of total darkness. Only six of the moons were left in the sky. No wonder the night was fading. I certainly did not intend to tarry for this stranger. time the stranger had packed up all of his devices and stowed them within his nest. There was something about his manner that made me feel vaguely uneasy; a sureness of self that implied he knew what he was doing. "All right," he said. "I'm ready." He disappeared into his nest, shutting the door behind him. That was when my feeling of unease gave way to one of pure terror. Purple-Gray's whole nest began to hum like the speakerspell and the red-fire devices within it -- but IF louder. Suddenly it rose into the air and hung there at twice the height of a man. I thought Shoogar would fall off his bicycle from astonishment. I was having trouble with my own hands and feet. Even when you are not trembling all over a bicycle is hard enough to control. The ride back to the village was a nightmare. Shoogar was so unnerved he forgot to chant any of protective canteles -- and we both kept looking back over our shoulders at that huge looming egg which came floating silently, dreadfully after us, throwing off light in all directions like some terrifying manifestation of Elcin the thunder god. And it didn't help matters that every time I looked up another moon had set, plunging us ever closer to the time of total darkness. One of us was moaning. I wasn't su whether it was Shoogar or me. The bicycles clattered roughly down the mountain path and I was so concerned about getting safely back to my nest that I did not even think to urge Shoogar to be careful with my other machine. The way he kept looking back over his shoulder I was sure he would hit something and split a wheel. Fortunately he did not -- I did not know if I would have even stopped to help him. Not with that big black egg chasing us, always perfectly and terrifyingly upright. Somehow we made it down to the grasslands. Several of the women saw us coming -- they were out in the fields gathering the night fungi -- but when they saw that huge glowing nest looming along behind us, they turned and ran for the safety of the village. Shoogar and I did not even think to park our bicycles on the hill but rode them right down into the settlement. The women would have to clean the mud from the wheels We reached the village none too soon. The last of the moons was just settling into the west. We paused, out of breath, in the center clearing. The great black nest floated ominously above us, lighting up the whole village with its odd aura. The great trees and the gourd-shaped nests hanging from their mighty branches took on strange and terrifying colors. From out of the air the magician's voice boomed louder than any natural voice: "... no wonder I didn't see it from the air... houses are structured spheres, suspended from the limbs of tremendous trees... must be at least... Wait until... hears about this. Where should I park?" "Anywhere," I gasped weakly. "Put it anywhere," and made an appropriate sweeping gesture. I looked around to see if we had any trees strong enough to hang such a nest from. There were none big enough that were not already occupied -- but if this magician could make his nest fly, then he could surely hang it from even a sapling. But even this the stranger did not do. He landed it on the ground. And not just on any ground. He swept through the village toward the river and brought it to land on the crest of the slope overlooking the frog-grading ponds. The ponds were dry now, drained for their ritual purification and reseeding spells, but I was appalled at such callous disregard for the property of the village. I winced as the magician's nest sank into the ooze with a slow squishy phlooosh. Ill the time the smoky rim of the red sun began to appear over the horizon, I was already up and about. After my cleansing and purification, I felt better but still haggard and drawn. The events of the night before had taken their toll. A glance out was enough to confirm that the stranger was still in our midst. Pilg the Crier was already moving through the trees moaning of this new development. Disaster was all the more certain now that the strange magician had moved his nest into the village. Even from here I could see a curious crowd gathering around it -- though still keeping a respectful distance. And, the frog-monger, was wringing his hands and moaning over his frog-grading ponds. He would have to repurify them again after the stranger left -- and if that were not soon he might miss the spawning season altogether. Shoogar and I went out to watch him that first day. As soon as he saw us he straightened from his examination of a local herb and disappeared into his nest. He returned almost immediately with an object in his outstretched hand. "A gift," he said. "A gift for Shoogar the magician." Shoogar was caught by surprise. He had not expected the stranger to produce the required gift. Now he had fulfilled his obligation as a magician and had the legal right to remain in the district. By the same convention, Shoogar was bound to respect the rights of the new magician as well as his spells. Guild rules are quite specific. Shoogar, as resident magician, had the seniority. The stranger could do nothing to interfere with Shoogar's practice or previous spells but, aside from that, he was free to do as he chose. Shoogar examined his gift. It was small and light, easily held in one hand. One end had a glass lens mounted in it. The stranger demonstrated how it worked. When one pressed forward on the thing's sliding nerve, the glass lens made light. It was a trivial thing. I could IF sense that Shoogar was disappointed and insulted that the stranger had not given him something more spectacular. Shoogar had other ways to make cold light. But there was little he could say. It is extremely bad form to test a gift spell in the presence of the giver. The only advantage to the gift was that its light was a bright narrow beam, not quite like the stranger's beam of red fire, and certainly not as intense -- but it was a shape of light that we had not seen before. Shoogar had had his heart set on the flying spell or the red fire device. Yet manners compelled him to accept the gift graciously. Moreover, he had to remain while the stranger tried to make conversation. I Conversation, did I say? More like a monologue of madness! "I cannot understand why your world has life at all," Purple-Gray was saying. "Your evolution patterns don't seem right -- yet who would have settled here? We certainly wouldn't. For one thing, the dust clouds hide you from space. For another, you don't really get yellow, dwarf sunlight." Much of it was like that -- coherent sentences trailing off into strings of unrelated words. "Though I suppose the red and blue combine to give the same effect. The plants all look black because there's so little green light but the... in plants doesn't use the green anyway. So that's all right. It's these double shadows that would drive anyone insane." stream of gibberish with commendable patience. Purple-Gray's words about different colors seemed to hint at something very important and Shoogar wanted to know what it was. "You speak of 'this world,' " he said. "May one assume that you know of other worlds?" I wondered if Shoogar were baiting the stranger. "Oh, yes. My world -- " He looked up, considered, then pointed into the empty sky. "My world is in that general direction -- I think. Beyond the dust clouds." "Dust clouds?" Shoogar peered up into the sky. I looked also. So did the crowd of onlookers. "Dust clouds?" The sky was an empty blue. What was he talking about? Shoogar looked at the other magician. "Do you mock me? I see nothing. No dust clouds. No other worlds. There is nothing in the sky." "Oh, but there is," said PurpleGray. "It's just too small for you to see." Shoogar raised an eyebrow, threw me a look, turned back to the other magician. I could sense some of the onlookers trying to restrain their mirth. Some of the lesser women were already giggling and had to be herded away. "Too small?" repeated Shoogar. "Too small?" His patience was growing thin. Shoogar has no temperament for children, fools or madmen. "Oh, no -- you misunderstand," said Purple-Gray quickly. "It's too small to see because it's so far away." "Oh," said Shoogar slowly. Purple-Gray still had not explained the dust clouds -- or the lack of them. "Yes. In fact, it's so far away that if you tried to get there on say, a bicycle, it would take you many generations. You would grow old and die before you had covered a significant fraction of the journey." "I see," said Shoogar. "Then how did you get here? By pedaling faster?" Purple-Gray laughed. "Oh, no, no. Even that wouldn't help. I -- " The speakerspell hesitated, then said, "Went around..." The last sound was incomprehensible. Shoogar shook his head in confusion. Several more of the women had to be led away. It was not good for them to see a grown man making a fool of himself, nor was it advisable that they witness Shoogar discomfited. Several of the men began muttering amongst themselves. Shoogar gestured for silence -- he still had not given up. "Went around?" he asked. "Went around what? The dust clouds?" "Oh, no. I went through the dust clouds. I went around..." Shoogar repeated this sentence slowly, to see if there were something in it he had missed. He looked at Purple and shook his head. "Uh-uh," he said. "Uh-uh." That was all, just: "Uh-uh." He turned and walked away, up the slope, shaking his head and turning the small light-making device over and over in his hands. next several days collecting small plants, pieces of larger plants, handfuls of mud and water and dirt. There were plenty of sprats and adults to watch him but he took little notice of them. A floating, three-legged, clicking device followed him about with its legs folded, unnoticed and untended until he needed it. Each time he took a sample of something he would mount this device on its legs and point it at the site. It seemed a harmless enough testing device but Shoogar would grit his teeth every time it came floating by. Shoogar went into seclusion then, determined to discover the secret of the stranger's light-making device. When I visited him for the purpose of checking his progress he glared angrily at me. IF He muttered, "Curse that single-shadowed demon!" "Perhaps it would help if you tried to find out which god the spell draws its power from." ( Shoogar gave me another look, more scathing than the first. "Do I tell you how to carve bone? Why do you tell me magic?  Don't you think I know my own business? I have already tested this device for the presence of every ' god in the known pantheon and it responds to none." "Perhaps," I suggested, "peri haps it is based on a different principle. Purple appears not to call on any gods at all. Could it be  that -- "  Then how does he work his de vices?" Shoogar demanded. "By ' superstition?" "I don't know -- but perhaps he draws his power from some different source. Or perhaps -- " "Lant, you are a fool. Why do you continue to prattle on about things you do not know? If you are going to try to talk to a magician about magic you should at least try to talk intelligently." "But that's why I'm asking -- "  "Superstition, Lant, is harmless prattle that gets repeated so often that people start to believe it -- and I then it is no longer harmless. The ( belief of the people gives it power. Magic, on the other hand, involves ( a carefully constructed equation of symbols intended to control specialized forces or objects. Magic works whether one believes in it or not." "I understand that," I said. "And I do not think that Purple operates by superstition." "Nor do I," said Shoogar. "His powers are too great." "But it does not appear that he operates by magic either." "Are you suggesting that the stranger's devices are independent of the gods?" Shoogar's look and tone made it clear that he felt he was talking to an imbecile. I stiffened my tone. "Such a thing is not impossible. Willville once confessed to me that he has often test-ridden new bicycles without bothering to bless them first. One grows careless and forgets. But nothing evil has ever happened to him." "Willville and Orbur are under my protection -- remember?" said Shoogar. "In payment for helping to construct a flying spell." "Yes, I remember -- I had preferred that they take money." Shoogar ignored me. "I am protecting both your sons as a matter of course, so Willville's occasional ride on an unblessed bicycle proves nothing. Besides, if everything else has been properly prepared, the bicycle blessing is superfluous." "I still say that such a thing as a device independent of the gods might be possible." Shoogar gave me a look. "You seem sure of yourself." "As a boy, I once used an unblessed fishing rod I had made." "So?" "So, I caught a fish." Shoogar snorted. "It still proves nothing, Lant. If you had blessed that rod and washed your hook as you should have you might have caught ten times as many fish. All that you proved otherwise was that you had constructed a usable fishing rod. What you needed for that experiment was a valid control -- an identical fishing pole that had been blessed and washed. Then you would have seen which one could catch the most fish." "You talk as if you have done such an experiment." "Not with fish, no. But with traps." My surprise must have shown, for he said, "As an apprentice, every new magician must prove to his own satisfaction, at least once, that there is truly great power in magic. One cannot be a magician if there is a seed of doubt in his mind. By allowing the apprentice to satisfy his curiosity, we generate faith in him. It is a simple experiment -- one that anyone can construct for himself -- a test that can be repeated as often as you choose. Each time the results are the same and can be verified." "And what happens?" "The traps with the blessed bait will catch twice as many rabbits." "So? Maybe it was only because the bait is more attractive to the rabbits." "Of course. I would expect you to put it into layman's terms," said Shoogar. "But that's 'exactly what it is supposed to do. The whole purpose of the spell is to make the bait more attractive. These traps are simple devices, Lant. A simple device may not always need magic -- but when it is used the results are easily demonstrable. Now, how many parts were there to your fishing pole?" "Three. Stick, line and hook." "Right. There is little that can go wrong with it, but still the string can break or the bait can slip off or the hook may not catch. And this is only a simple device -- a thing that does not have to be very precise. Think, Lant! What of the construction that has many moving parts? It has to have all of them in absolute working order before'any of them will work. What of, say, the bicycle?" cut me off. "Don't interrupt. The bicycle has many moving parts, the wheels, the pulleys, the steering bar, the pedals, the axles. All of these things must be precision carved and in delicate adjustment with each other or the device simply will not work. Now, theoretically, a perfect machine is possible. But in practice -- well, when you get a machine that has to be that precise simply to function, that is when the effect of the magic becomes most important. If only IF one part fails -- one part -- the whole machine is useless. The simple device does not need magic, so its effect is enhanced by the simplest of spells. But a complex device needs a more complex spell just to keep it working at all. There is Just too much that can go wrong. Tell me, Lant, how' many parts are there to a bicycle?" I shrugged. "I have never counted. A good many, I would guess." Shoogar nodded, "And how many parts does the stranger's flying nest have?" I shook my head. "I don' know." "More than a bicycle?" "Undoubtedly," I said. "Very perceptive of you, Lant. I feel sure that there must be at least a thousand different parts in that flying nest. From my own flying experiments, I can tell you that a flying spell is a very complex device indeed. Purple-Gray's nest must have many moving parts, all of them working together in precision. The smallest error and nothing happens. It's quite obvious to me that the more parts a machine has, the more opportunities it has to go wrong. Now, are you going to stand there and try to tell me that the stranger keeps all of those various parts working in absolute precision without the aid of any magic at all?" I shook my head. Shoogar made a very convincing case. He had certainly given the whole matter much more thought than I had imagined. But, of course, that was his job as magician. It was reassuring to know that he was doing it so well. I beamed proudly at him. "Then the same thing must apply to all of his other devices, right?" Shoogar nodded, "You are beginning to see the obvious, Lant." "They must need so much magic that they must be reeking of spells, right?" Shoogar nodded again. "Then, you have already figured out the secret of the light device, Shoogar? It is so complex that it is obvious, right?" "Wrong. It is so simple that it is a mystery." "Huh?" "The most I've been able to do is to take the device apart but look at what that leaves me!" He waves his hand at a workbench. On it were only four pieces, the elements of the stranger's light. These consisted of a hollow shell, a crystal lens, a flat plate and an interior canister, roughly the same shape as the outer shell. Shoogar turned this flat bulging object over and over in his hands but he could not find an opening. It was hard and. solid and we both puzzled over what it might contain. It resisted all our attempts to open it and Shoogar would not use force for fear of destroying the devices within. "And you have been able to make no changes at all in its condition?" I prompted. "Not exactly. I have made one change." "And what is that?" "The light. It has failed completely and will no longer glow." "Oh." Shoogar glumly fitted the pieces together again as I watched. He activated the sliding nerve. Nothing happened. "I thought not," he muttered. "I had hoped the spell might restore itself if given a chance to rest -- but apparently I was mistaken." "Why don't you take it back to Purple?" I suggested. Shoogar whirled on me. "What? Do you think I am not capable enough on my own to solve this problem?" "No, Shoogar," I protested. "I am sure you are capable. I just thought that -- well, perhaps Purple has done something to cancel the original spell that you can't know about. Perhaps he has insulted some god." Shoogar considered this. "You could be right. You're sure you're not doubting my ability as a magician?" He peered at me. Hastily I reassured him. "Shoogar, I have no doubts about the level of your knowledge." This seemed to placate him. "Good. Then we can pay a visit to Purple and find out why the device doesn't work." IV west pasture, doing something with a set of his devices. I looked for -- but did not see -- the red-fire device. Apparently, he had not brought it with him. The devices he was using here in the meadow seemed to be harmless. Purple was puttering contentedly, murmuring and humming busily to himself when Shoogar interrupted and handed him the device. Purple took it, fiddled with it several times, then opened it and examined the cylinder within. He noted that its surface had gone red. "Well of course it won't work. The battery is dead." Shoogar went pale. "The battery? Why did you not tell me there was a living creature within this device? I did not even know what to feed it." "No, no," said Purple with a laugh. "You don't understand." "I understand all too well," said Shoogar. "You entrusted a living creature into my care without even telling me. And it is no wonder that it died -- imprisoned in that tiny box without food or water! You have caused the death of a living being to be on my head and now I must offer up prayers for its soul." IF Purple managed to check his laughter. "Listen to me, Shoogar. Listen. A battery is not a living creature. It is a device, a thing that stores power." "Oh," said Shoogar. "A latent spell." He smoothed his fur and said in a calmer tone. "Well, which god must I placate in order to restore its power to it?" Again Purple laughed. "You still do not understand. Here, give it to me and I will do it for you." He reached for the device but Shoogar did not give it to him. "Why will ycrU not tell me how to restore it?" demanded Shoogar. "What good will the device be to me, if I must continually come to you when its power is exhausted? What kind of a magician would that make me look like? And furthermore, what happens after you leave -- how will I restore it then? If I at least knew which gods -- " "No gods," said Purple. "No gods at all. Your gods are not able to restore this device's power. Here, give it to me, Shoogar. I will do it." Shoogar jerked his hand back as if stung. "The gods not able to restore the device's power? Only you?" "Relax, Shoogar," Purple said. "The device works without the gods. It doesn't need them." Shoogar said slowly, carefully, "Do you mock me? No device works without the gods." "This one does. So do the rest of my devices." Shoogar gently stiffened his tone. "Purple, you are not making sense. It sounds as if you are denying the power of the gods. Such talk will cause Elcin to rain lightening down upon your head. I urge you to -- " "That would be true," Purple interrupted, "if there were an Elcin. Or any other god. You have over a thousand gods here -- and I still have not numbered them all. Oh, these primitive superstitions, born out of the ignorant need to explain the inexplicable. I'm sorry, Shoogar -- I can't explain it to you. You're as much its victim as its master." Abruptly, he was silent. "Is that all?" Shoogar asked. "Yes, I'm afraid so," the other replied. Shoogar looked thoughtfully at the device he still held in his hands. "Purple," he began slowly and evenly -- his voice showed great control. "Were it not for your devices I would think you either a fool or a blaspheming red magician. But the abilities of your devices are such that you can be neither foolish nor false. Therefore you must be something else." He paused, then said, "I want to know what that something is. In your conversations you continually refer to things that do not make sense but they hint at meaning. I am sure that you know things that I do not. Your devices prove that. I wish to learn these secrets." He paused again -- it was very hard for him to say what he said next. "Will you teach me?" Shoogar's words startled me. I had never heard him so humble. His passion for the secrets of the stranger must have been all-consuming for him to abase himself like that. P urple looked at Shoogar for a long moment. "Yes," he said, almost to himself. "It is the only way -- teach the local shamans let them introduce the knowledge. All right. Look, Shoogar, you must first understand that the gods are not gods at all but manifestations of your belief." Shoogar nodded. "That theory is not unfamiliar to me." "Good," said Purple. "Perhaps you are not as primitive as I thought." "This theory," continued Shoogar, "is one of the key theories upon which all of magic is based -- that the gods will take the forms necessary to their functions and those functions are determined by -- " "No, no." Purple cut him off. "Listen. Your people do not understand how the moons make the tides, so you create N'veen, the god of tides and patron of mapmakers. You do not understand how the winds are created by great masses of hot air, so you create Musk-Watz, the god of winds. You do not understand the relationship between cause and effect, so you create Leeb, the god of magic." Shoogar frowned but he nodded. He was trying very hard to follow this. "I can understand how it happened, Shoogar," said Purple condescendingly. "It's no wonder you have so many gods -- single god worship starts with a single sun. Here you have two suns and eleven moons. Your system is hidden away in a dust cloud -- " He saw that Shoogar was frowning, and said quickly, "No, forget that last. It would only confuse you." Shoogar nodded. "Now, listen to this carefully. There is something more than these gods of yours, Shoogar, but you and your people have forgotten that you have created the gods yourselves, and you have come to believe that it is the other way around -- that the gods have created you." Shoogar flinched at this but he said nothing. "I will try to teach you what I can. I will be glad to. The sooner you and your people are ready to lay aside your primitive superstitions and accept the one true -- " here, the speakerspell hesitated again -- "magic, the sooner will you inherit -- the lights in the sky." "Huh?" said Shoogar. "What IF lights in the sky? Do you mean those faint non-substantial things that appear at random and rarely in the same place twice?" Purple nodded, "You are not able to see them as I am -- but some day, Shoogar, some day, your people will build their own flying spells and -- " "Yes, that's it," said Shoogar eagerly. "Show me the flying spell. What gods -- " "No gods, Shoogar. That what I have been trying to explain to you. he flying spell is not derived from the gods but from men. Men like myself." Shoogar started to open his mouth to protest, but he swallowed mightily instead. "Derived from men?" Purple nodded. "It must be a simpler spell than I imagined -- you'll teach me?" "I can't," Purple protested. "Can't? You just said you would." "No, no -- I meant that I would teach you my -- " the speakerspell seemed to be having some trouble with the word -- "magic. But I can't teach you my flying spell." Shoogar shook his head as if to clear it. "Your flying spell is not magic then?" "No, it isn't. It's -- " again the device hesitated -- "it's magic." temper was shortening. "Are you or are you not going to teach me how to fly?" "Yes -- but it is your people who will fly -- " "Then what good is it to me?" "I mean your children and your grandchildren." "I have no children." "I did not mean it that way," Purple said. "I meant -- your peor pie's children and your grandchildren. The spell is so complex that it will take many years to learn and build." "Then let us begin," prompted Shoogar impatiently. "But we can't," Purple protested. "Not until you learn the basics of -- magic." "I already know the basics of magic. Teach me the flying spell." "I can't. It's too difficult for you." "Then why did you say you would if you wouldn't?" "I didn't say I wouldn't. I said I couldn't." That was when Shoogar got mad. "May you have many ugly daughters," he began. "May the parasites from ten thousand mudcreatures infest your codpiece!" His voice rose to a fearful pitch. "May dry rot take your nesting tree! May you never receive a gift that pleases you! May the God of Thunder strike you in the kneecap!" They were only words, nothing more, but coming from Shoogar they were enough to pale even me, an innocent bystander. I wondered if my hair would fall out from witnessing such a display of anger. Purple was unmoved -- and I must credit him for his courage in the face of such fury. "I have already told you, Shoogar, that I am not concerned with your magic. I am above such things." Shoogar took another breath. "If you do not cease and desist, I will be forced to use this." Shoogar produced from the folds of his robe, a doll. I knew from its odd proportions and colors that the doll had been carved to represent Purple. Purple did not even quail as any normal man would have done. I knew then that he must be mad. "Use it," he said. "Go ahead and use it. But don't interrupt me in my work. Your world-life-system-balance has developed in a fascinating direction. The animals have developed some of the most unusual fluids-secreted-for-thecontrol-of-bodily-functions that I have ever seen." Purple bent back to his devices, did something to one of them, a stabbing gesture with a single forefinger, and a whole section of the west pasture erupted. Shoogar covered his eyes in despair. Purple had just violated one of the finest pastures of the village -- one of the favorite pastures of Rotn'bair, the god of sheep. Who knew what the mutton would taste like this winter? Then, to add injury to insult. Purple began gathering fragments of the meadow and putting them into little containers. He was taking the droppings. Was it possible for one man to violate so many of the basic laws of magic and still survive? The laws of magic are strict. Any fool can see them in operation every day. Eveh I am familiar with them. They operate the entire world and their workings are simple and obvious. But Purple, this man of the flying nest, was blind even to the simplest of spells. I was not surprised when Shoogar, grimly intent, set the doll down on the grass and set it afire. Neither was I surprised when the doll had burned itself into a pinch of white ash without Purple even bothering to notice. Purple ignored it -- and us. He showed not the slightest effect. Flaming sting things! What powers this magician must have! Shoogar stared at him aghast. Purple's very casualness was the ultimate insult. When we left him he had one of his clicking boxes open and was fumbling inside. He never even noticed our going. V the sky, a frown on his face. IF Both suns were still high -- broad red disc and blue-white point. The blue sun was poised on the edge of the red, ready to begin the long crawl across its face. "Elcin's wrath!" he muttered. "I cannot use the suns -- all is unstable. Damn the conjunction! That leaves me only the moons -- and the moons are well into the mud-skunk." He hurled a fireball across the clearing. "An eightmooned mud-skunk at that!" He put his hands on his hips and shouted into the sky, "Why me. Quells? Why me? What have I done to offend you that you curse me with such unusable configurations? Have I not sworn my life to your service?" There was no answer. I don't think Shoogar expected one. He turned back to his spell devices. "All right then. If it is a mudskunk you have given me, it is a mud-skunk I shall use. Here, Lant, hold this." He thrust a large pack at me. He continued to rummage through his equipment, all the while muttering under his breath. A fearful collection of cursing devices began to grow around him. I indicated the pile. "What is all this for?" He appeared not to hear me, continued checking off items in his head, then began loading them into the pack. "What is all this for?" I repeated. Shoogar looked at me. "Lant, you are a fool. This," he said, and hefted his kit meaningfully, "is to show the stranger that one does not trifle with the gods of the full belly." "I'm afraid to ask. What is it?" "It's the spell of the -- No, you'll just have to wait and see it in action, with the others." He strode purposefully toward the frog-grading ponds. I hurried after him. It was amazing how fast Shoogar's squat little legs could carry him. An uneasy crowd of villagers was already standing on the rise above the flying nest -- none dared approach it. When Shoogar appeared an excited murmur ran through the crowd. Word of Purple's insult had spread quickly. The villagers were tense with expectation. Shoogar ignored them. He and strode angrily to Purple's nest, ignoring the mud that splashed up and over his ankles and stained the hem of his robe. He strode around the nest three times without pause, looking at it from all sides. I was unsure whether he had already started spelling or whether he was still sizing up the situation. For a long moment he stood looking at the landward side of that nest, like an artist contemplating a blank skin. Abruptly he made up his mind. He stepped quickly forward and with a piece of chalk inscribed the sign of the horned box on the side of Purple's nest. An interested murmur of speculation rose from the crowd. "The horned box -- the horned box -- " This spell would be under the domain of Rotn'bair, the sheep god. Members of the crowd discussed it busily among themselves. Rotn'bair is neither very powerful nor very irritable -- compared to Elcin, that is. Most of the Rotn'bairic spells deal with fertility and food-gathering. Few things will anger the sheep god -- but if Rotn'bair could be angered, Shoogar would know how. The crowd murmured with an excited curiosity, each speculating on just what form the final spell would take. Shoogar finished the sketch. Absent-mindedly wiping the chalk from his hands, he strode down to the mudbanks of the river. He paced back and forth along its edge, casting about for something. Abruptly he spotted what he was looking for, something just below the surface of the water. He grabbed quickly for it, his hands dipping into the river with no splash at all. When he straightened, the sleeves of his robe were dripping but I saw a brownish slug in his hands and after a moment I caught the odor of mud-skunk. T he scent reached the rest of the crowd at the same time and a murmur of approval went up from them. The antipathy between Rotn'bair, the sheep god, and Nils'n, the god of the mud creatures, was known even to laymen. Evidently, Shoogar was constructing a spell that would play on the mutual antipathy of the two gods. My guess was right -- I pride myself on a fairly good understanding of the basic principles of magic. Shoogar slit the belly of the mud-skunk and deftly extracted its anger gland. Carefully he placed this into a bone bowl. I recognized the bowl, having carved and cleansed it for him myself. It was made from the skull of a newborn lamb and had been sanctified to Rotn'bair. Now he was defiling it with the most odious portion of the mud creature. No doubt, he now had Rotn'bair's attention. He laid the bowl to one side and returned to the mud-skunk which lay writhing in a swampy pool. He picked it up and deftly sliced off its head without even offering up a prayer for its soul. Thus he defiled its death. Now he surely had Nils'n's attention. Using the bladder of the slug as a mixing bag, he began to construct a potion of powdered ramsbone, extract of hunger, odor of sheepsblood and several other elements that I could not identify -- but I suspected that all of them were designed to arouse the wrath of Nils'n although in what manIF ner was not yet completely clear. Shoogar surveyed the nest of the mad magician on its riverward side. Then he began to paint his soupy potion in broad lines across its round black flank in a pattern of eleven stripes by eleven. Having finished, he sketched in the sign of the deformed changeling, the favored son of the sheep god. This Cas the half of the spell which would anger Nils'n. Shoogar had defiled a mud creature in order to celebrate the greatness of Rotn'bair. To complete the other half of the spell, Shoogar would now desecrate his earlier celebration of Rotn'bair, the horned box sketched on the other side of the nest. He returned to the bone bowl, the one containing the anger gland of the mud-skunk. Using the legbone of a ram, he crushed the gland into a sick-smelling paste. This he mixed with ramsblood, defiled water and a greenish powder from his travel kit. I recognized that powder. It was an extract of fear, usually used where potent action is desired. It is derived from animals of the cloven hoof. Six sheep must have been sacrificed just to provide the small amount Shoogar was now mixing into his spell. Stepping to the landward side of the nest and chanting a song of praise for Nils'n, Shoogar began painting a familiar symbol across the chalk sketch of the horned box. It was the sign of Nils'n, a diagonal slash with an empty circle on either side. The crowd gasped appreciatively. Such originality in spellcasting was a delight to behold. No wonder he was called Shoogar the Tall. Rotn'bair would not allow such a desecration of his sheep. And Nils'n, the god of mud creatures, would not long be complacent while mud-skunks were being sacrificed to Rotn'bair. The antipathy of the two gods is demonstrated every time .the sheep are led to the river. Sheep are careless and clumsy and, as they mill about on the banks, they trample scores of frogs, snakes, salamanders, lizards, chameleons, and other amphibians that live in the mud. At the same time many of the more dangerous mud creatures, the poisonous ones, the ones with venom, lash back at the sheep, cutting their legs, ruining their wool, infecting them with parasites, giving them festering sores, leaving them bleeding from assorted cuts and slashes. The two gods hate each other and, in their various incarnations -- the sheep and the mud creatures -- they work to destroy each other at every opportunity. Now Shoogar had inscribed insults to both upon the same nest. He had defiled creatures of each in order to celebrate the greatness of the other. If Purple did not make immediate amends, he would have to suffer the wrath of both simultaneously. Purple had said he did not believe in the gods. He denied their existence. He denied their powers. And he had stated that he was above Shoogar's magic. I hoped he would return in time to see the spell take effect. I followed Shoogar down to the river and helped him with his ritual purification. He had to cleanse himself of the odor of offense against the gods, lest he be caught up in his own curse. Sometimes the gods are nearsighted. We bathed him with six different oils before we even let him step into the river. No sense in offending Filfo-mar, the river god. Even before we finished with the cleansing we could hear the curse beginning. We could hear the cheers of the crowd and under that was a dull sort of booming. Without even stopping to dry off, Shoogar wrapped his robe around himself and hurried back up the hill, with me trailing excitedly in his wake. the hill in time to see an angry ram butting his head insistently against the side of Purple's nest. More rams were arriving and they, too, began to attack that looming black globe. The focus of their anger was the desecrated homage to Rotn'bair and the very substance of the Nils'n symbol seemed enough to anger them. The smell of the mud-skunk waspotent enough to raise anyone's hackles. Red-eyed and breathing heavily, the rams jostled and shoved and butted even at each other in their frenzy to attack that odious desecration on the side of Purple's nest. Each time they struck it that same dreadful booming echoed up and down the hill and each time a great cheer went up from the crowd. I expected at any moment to see one of the rams go crashing through the walls of that fearful nest but no -- those walls were stronger than I had thought. Perhaps even as strong as metal. The only effect I could see was that each time a ram struck it, it seemed to lift slightly out of the mud for a moment before sinking wetly bade. The rams, in their bleating frenzy, continued to strike at that offensive spot, as if they themselves were the very incarnation of Rotn'bair's anger. Again and again they hurtled at that dull black surface. Old Khart, the lead ram, had already shattered both of his horns (sacred items in themselves -- I mourned the loss) and several of the other rams were also bleeding profusely. Their eyes were red with fury. Their nostrils flared wide. Their breath came in hot puffs of steam and the sounds of bleating and snorting filled the air with a madness born of wrath. The IF steam rose from their sides and their hooves slashed wetly through the ground, churning the grass and mud into a meaningless soup. Already some of the rams were having trouble with their footing and indeed, as we watched, one of the older ones slipped and slid through the mud. He crashed against two others and brought them both down with him. All three were caught under the frenzied, slashing hooves of the others. The once white wool of the animals was now stained with washes of pink and darker spots of red. Most of the rams were bleeding about their horns and heads and many had gaping wounds where they had been gored by one another's frenzy. Thir angry snorts were punctuated with grunts of pain and by the dull thud and hollow boom that rolled up and down the slope each time they struck the side of Purple's nest. But the creatures had strength beyond all natural endurance and continued to clamber over one another, continued to butt at that offending spell. Each time they struck it the nest rose up out of the ground and threatened to slide down the slope and into the river. But each time it would pause and then sag wetly back into its hollowed out cradle of mud. Several times it trapped slow-footed beasts under the curve of its wall. I felt a great surge of emotion within myself -- any moment now Purple's great eggshaped nest would be toppled onto its side. Abruptly three of the rams hit the nest at the same time and it seemed to leap into the air. One more struck it at just the right instant and as it rose out of its hollow it just seemed to keep on moving. Suddenly it was sliding downslope with a great wet slosh. Angry rams scrambled after it, butting at it all the way down, churning the mud with their hooves and leaving a long angry scar through Ang's carefully terraced frog-grading pools. I shouted in triumph with the rest. The great black globe slid into the river with a resounding thud and a splash, a loud cheer of delight and victory went up from the villagers. Only I was silent, for only I had noticed that the terrible nest was still upright, that it had not canted even a thumbnail's width. Had Shoogar noticed, too? His puzzled frown was a match for mine. But the nest was in the river. The rams slid and skidded down the slope, destroying what was left of the frog pools in the process. Almost joyfully they leaped into the water, still butting at the nest. Others milled around the banks, churning the mud. Mud-skunks and salamanders ran panic-stricken under their hooves and a new shade of red added itself to the stains on the heaving flanks of the crazed rams. Crushed mud-skunk mingled with the blood of the sheep and the terrible smell reached us on the crest of the hill, along with the hysterical splashing and bleating... N OW the black nest was within Nils'n's reach. So far only Rotn'bair had had a chance to avenge his insult -- now it was Nils'n's turn. The banks boiled with life as salamanders, lizards, crabs, venom-bearing snakes and other river creatures came swarming up out of the mud and darkness. They scrambled across the churning surface and attacked anything that moved, even each other, but more often the rams. The rams continued to butt at the nest, oblivious to the mud creatures caught in their wool, hanging from their flanks, biting and slashing at their legs. Their once proud flanks, now torn and slashed, were stained with angry strokes of red and great washes of muddy brown river water. It was an awe-inspiring sight, sheep and mud-creatures together attacking that ominously unmoving nest. The villagers stood on the flanks of the hill and cheered the frenzied activity below. One or two of the braver shepherds tried to work their way down the slope but the snapping claws of the mud crabs drove them quickly back up to the crest. The rams were slowing down but they still continued to mill about Purple's nest, clambering over the occasional body of a fallen comrade, refusing to cease even in victory. The water was pink. Angry mud-skunks swarmed along both banks of the river. It was a heartening sight. The crowd continued to cheer wildly and began to chant a chorus of praise to Shoogar. Pilg the Crier was leading them. Down below, their anger spent, some of the rams were climbing back up the hill, slipping and skidding in their own blood and falling back down the mudslicked surface. But for the most part nearly all the rams were able to climb out. Only two or three slipped beneath the water and failed to surface. The mud creatures, too, were beginning to calm -- and the shepherds once more dared to work their way carefully down the slopes to tend their wounded flock. "A beautiful spell, Shoogar," I congratulated him, "Beautiful. And so powerful." Indeed, as the churning foam of the river continued to subside, revealing the full extent of the devastation, several of the villagers even began to mutter that perhaps the spell had been a bit too powerful. One of the members of the Guild of Advisors remarked IF thoughtfully, "Look at all this destruction -- this spell should be banned." "Banned?" I confronted the man. "And leave us defenseless before strangers?" "Well," he amended, "perhaps we should only keep Shoogar from using it on friends. We could still use it on strangers." I nodded. I would accept that. Certainly a spell that wreaked this much havoc should be used with discretion. Meanwhile, at least eleven of our sheep lay dead or dying in the churned mud of the slope, mud creatures feeding indiscriminately on their stilled or still heaving flanks. Some of the rams were trampled almost into the landscape. Others lay with their heads at oddly twisted angles, their necks broken from butting against Purple's nest. Three bodies lay below the water with their mouths open. What remained of the flock would show countless mud-skunk bites upon their legs and flanks. Many of those bites would undoubtedly become festering sores and probably more of the rams would die later. The vermin of the mud would be vicious for days to come. It would not be safe to bathe for a while and probably the sheep would not dare to return to the river for a long time. They would have to be led to the mountain streams to drink. The frog-grading ponds had been completely obliterated and would have to be resculptured elsewhere. Ang stood moaning and wringing his hands as he surveyed his mud-churned slope. And finally, the wreck of the mad magician's nest now blocked the river. Dammed water spilled over the south bank in a torrent. Already it was carving a new course for itself. And none of it mattered. These were all small prices to pay for the damage done to the stranger. Considering the magnitude of the task, it was one of Shoogar's less expensive efforts and we were proud of him. Then why was the scene so utterly silent? I looked to my left and saw Purple standing on the crest of the hill. IF The Magazine aiAHematives something trembles in the night, something whispers in the stars, something very ancient struggles to be born . I Winter were being scattered by the whips of the wind Thiobud, called Rooster, mounted on a rough but serviceable pony, made his way northeast across the ironhard and frozen mud. He was heading for the well-guarded burroughs of the Scopus Valley, where, he had heard, there was an unmanned woman. And he hoped to make a parley about her. A thin pole rode in the leather lancesocket with a white strip of rag tied to its top, and his pockets were conspicuously turned inside out. All this was, of course, no proof that he had no weapons concealed on or about him but it did for ceremony. And if anyone did start any trouble and it turned out that Rooster had, say, a knife hid under his clothes, well, it would serve anybody right. A gaunt, big-mouthed dog loped along more or less beside him. It had already run down and ravened two snowhares so far today. Rooster's eye-stone began to tingle on its thong against his skin. Someone not too far away was looking at him. He let his own eyes roam but didn't turn his head. Let them Jook. Even if he were to ride buff-bare they could none of them see inside his head. The dog lifted its horrid muzzle and growled and he growled back at it. They went on. Two men in a turfy peered out of the peep-holes. Throwstones clinked in their pockets. At the first sound of the pony hooves they had crawled over to peep out, expectant little noises rising in throats and mouths. Now one of them began to swear. "Chip-eating son of a lesbo Zon -- " "Huh? What? Whuh yuh mean?" "A whiterag. Cow cunny !" TTie other squinted through red cracked eyelids. The disappointment was like a sharp pain. He breathed hard. He said, "Uh, whuh, we c' take m anyway, uh. Huh?" "Look how cocky he rides, the cow cunny," muttered the first. "Elbows out -- son of a Zon! Muss really think he is a somebody -- Maybe is -- " He turned a scornful look on his companion. "We c' take m, uh? We juss bonk m withs a bonk stone, easy 's bonking uh chickenbird, uh. And the dog. And the pony. Nen what? Naa naa. Someone like that muss have protection. So juss when we finish eatin' the pony, down they come, 'Kilt our bruth, didja?' Nex' thing ya know -- well, ya know, doncha? Uhuh. I don't want no sharpstick hammered up my sphinc. Nup." Already the figures were dwindling. Too far away for a successful take. The second man sighed and slobbered a little. "Besides," he said, "anybody with poke enough to go out whiteragging, uh, mays got uh witch no IF Ill overlookin for m. Person c' fall apart, inch by inch, uh, uuhhh!" His filthy body shuddered in a convulsion not caused by the temperature but he made out it was, crawled away from the peephole. "Gunna throw uh-nuther chip on the red-eye," he muttered. "Gettin cunny cold in this cunny turfy." Slowly, either from cold or reluctance, his bruth moved, too. "Son of a Zon -- see how cocky he sat on that Zon cunny ponny?" They blew on the small dung fire and coughed in the bitter smoke. Then they spread out their tattered hands to warm. cle which was Wolf Hill Pond. Strangers Pass. Buffalo Head. And then Three Rock Brook -- nobody, nothing there now but a person didn't tarry without good reason. Bow Gaze, also called River Bow Gaze, and far down below the mist made by the smokes of the many burroughs. A rich and interesting country but not the country, not the burroughs for which Rooster was heading now. And would reach -- if he didn't get pulled down by wild dogs or wild men or civil men who just might have what seemed to them good reasons for nOt respecting a white rag -- if he weren't gored by a bull of some sort, crushed by a deadfall, didn't ride into a stakes-pit, get caught in a witch-lace. Wolf Hill, Wolf Hill Pond, Strangers Pass, Buffalo Head, Three Rock Brook, River Bow Gaze. So far, so good. No landmarks missed. The next one should be Poison Bones Flat, a good place not to go barefoot and requiring a sharp eye and a wide circuit on behalf of the pony. And after that -- He dropped after that from the top of his mind and began to think about right now, as soon as he saw over the next big rise. The dog didn't so much growl as grunt. And the pony nickered. Rooster counted five other -- no -- six other ponies. He wasn't able to say just how many people but one of them was a child. That was a good sign -- a child. So were the travoys. No one went out venturing (a smooth word for a rough scene), no one went out raiding with children or travoys. He didn't yet know if he wanted to company with them -- or if they'd let him, for that matter -- even if they were going his way. They wouldn't, couldn't go very fast. Still, never mind, it was time to rest a while, they'd built a fire and -- who knows -- he might learn something. There -- they'd seen him. Some were standing up, pointing. He raised both his arms and the pole. Not increasing his pace in the least he guided his mount with his knees down the other side of the rise. It was the child whose voice split the cold and the silence with a tiny puff of breath. IF 'White rag," the child said. "A whiteragger!" And, although the grown ones must have noted that by then, somehow the child's naming it seemed to make the fact certain. They did not, to be sure, unstring their bows but they lowered them, spoke sharply to their dogs. About twenty feet away the newcomer stopped. For a moment they looked at each other. The newcomer saw three men in red-dyed sheepskins, a woman mostly wrapped in an enormous mantle of dark wool, and the child, whose clothes had evidently been made out of the scraps of its elders' clothes. All were of dark skin and eyes, with here and there a lock of black hair hanging loose. And all were still unsatisfied. They saw a young man in leather, the hood of his jacket almost dovn to his eyes, naturally ruddy face nipped still ruddier by cold and wind. The woman muttered into her mantle and one of the men said, "Dismount and make your dog bide there." The dog raised a leg against a hummock but showed no disposition to move closer after being bidden. "What do they call you?", the spokesman asked suspiciously. "Call me Rooster -- though I have a birth-name and a father'sname, too. Tell me, then, can I come up?" A short hesitation. "Come up." T hey slipped their hands inside his clothes, found no weapons. Then they touched his hands with cold iron, to show if he were a witch; and with a silver ring, to see if he were a bloodsapper. And then, since he neither flinched nor cried out nor shrank back, they put a pinch of powdered sign-bark on his tongue and gave him water and watched his throat to be sure he swallowed. It was not savory, to be sure, but he had swallowed worse sign-powder in his life and thanked his witch (if he had one) that none of any of it had been poison -- also a hazard of coming up to strangers. "All clear, saltmaster?" "All clear. Rooster. Sit by the fire." "I will sit by the fire... Just a bit late for travoys, isn't it?" He inclined his head towards the woodframed drag-alongs, cargoes lashed in place. "The mud is all safe-frozen. Snow's not deep enough for sleds. We'll make our winter camp all right. Have a hunk of our salt. It's good -- well made, clean. And the fire was welcome and he, feeling its heat on his face, pulled his hood back. "Rooster, uh? Well, I see why. Never saw a red cresty before." They all gaped -- and the child jumped and set its hands to clapping so that the shell anklets rattled and clinked -- at the sight of his head, polled to the skin, save for the roach or comb of red hair riding like a crest from brow to nape. And then the stocky saltmaster spoke a word or two in a low voice, and the staring stopped. "Yes, huh, good salt -- uh -- trading's been good, too, this season -- huh -- " The bulky woman had secured her child and now swiveled slowly around to face the guest. "Why you whiteragging?" she asked, in a soft, husky voice. "Hunting a loster? Doing a punish?" The soft comb and curl of wavy red hair ruffled as he shook his head. "I've got places to go -- I don't want to stop for troubles -- Scopus Valley is the next place I'm going to -- " The younger of the two other men looked at him, teeth showing in his lower jaw. "Heading for Scopus? Don't want trouble? Why, that's a Zon burrough, Roosty, didn't you know that? That's the biggest Zon burrough there is in all round uh these parts. You won't gets through The Notch, thems women, thems Zons, ull kill y'. Thems'll cutcher dippus off -- " Rooster shrugged. The saltmaster shook his head. "No, for the white rag. The rule. Zons keep to all the rule. Nobody keep to all the rule the way Zons do -- " And: "That's right, Cler -- " "True as salt, Cler -- " "Never mind trying to scares him, Cler -- " the others said. IF Except the saltmaster, who said, "Yes, Cler, maybe you be scare for yourself, uh? Suppose we muss go to Scopus before to winter camp? So, salt, we send you in first, Cler -- " Cler shook his head so vigorously that most of his lank black hair escaped from under his cap. "Not me," he said, as the others laughed (not Rooster, though). "I aints a going even near any Zon burrough! Send her, send Bets -- " "You could carry the white rag, you know, Cler," another man said. "Never mind the pole -- juss tie it onto your dippus, Cler -- " But Cler, it was clear, white rag or not, wasn't going. When the laughter ebbed the stout saltmaster said, "Wells, now I don't know. 'Send Bets...' suppose Bets gets to like it there and don't corne back?" More daughter. And Bets gave her husband a hearty cuff and called him, "Dirty fat man -- " said she was too old and, besides, had gotten into other bad habits. "Seems pretty good habits to me," her husband said serenely. Then, more serious, "But we have heard, Roosty, that the old Zon Ladyking of Scopus burroughs -- what be her name? -- it's a story about that it's her death-time -- or was -- " "What? Dead?" Rooster's head snapped up. His eyes left the embers. He forgot the smell from the fat stone caldron sitting in their midst. He met the eyes of the saltmaster, who, with thumb and forefinger, was rubbing a fold of his wattled chin. It was not Rooster alone who was hoping to learn something from this encounter -- the older man's black eyes were sharp and keen. "Dead? I didn't say 'dead,' " this one corrected him. "Not long ago at all we'd hears a story it was her death-time. Mays be she's dead, mays be she'd gets better, all; maybe she's still the same. Perhap you'll learn the truth before we, for we only mays be going there, to Scopus-Zon... But you say you do go there -- 'the next place -- ' uh?" Fire or not, it was cold -- the wind rustled and whimpered in the dry snow and blew gusts of it against the guest's naked head. He pulled his hood over and used the excusable action to avoid his host's eyes. No tentpegs could drive into that frozen soil and, had it been the saltmakers' intention to erect one of their yurtlike portable huts, they would already have at least begun it. So -- clearly, after eating, they would be moving on again. So -- two questions. Where would they be moving? And would he want to move with them? "Nothing special in the pot," the saltmaster murmured -- Rooster felt the undiminished tingling of the eye-stone -- "a something of everything. No feast. But good. You share our fire. So. Share our food." A long moment passed, so long that Rooster, half wondering why he had not answered, became aware that no one was waiting for his answer; became totally aware that half his attention had for most of the long moment been on something else. The continual yip-yap of the dogs had ceased, the hobbled ponies had turned and lifted their heads, the clitter-clatter of the child's shells was silent, the wind itself had gone quite dead. And in the silence and out of the silence came a sound of hooves, not slow, not fast -- deliberate. Not the hooves of a horse or a pony, familiar as the sound of human breath, nor the wild, shy hooves of deer, the dumpy ones of swine. Not elk or moose -- heavier than bison. Did bison feet ever go at that pace? It was the combination of unfamiliar sound with familiar beat -- it was that, yet it was something else. A scent, an odor, heavy and sharp, filtered through the still air. The muscles of the dogs moved but no limb stirred. They had not been aware, intent in their fire-warmed hollow, of a gathering mist outside and around -- and perhaps might not have become aware of it the very instant of their looking and straining towards the odd, approaching sound, its direction at last determined -- had not at that moment the source of the sound itself appeared. Half-obscured in the mist, on the spine of the rise, crossing laterally upon it, a figure curiously caped and cowled in strange garments. A figure riding on a strange beast, a huge beast, with great head slung low and great horns outspread. A figure girt about with unfamiliar or at least certainly undistinguishable gear and objects. The figure moved along in the mist, rider and mount -- the two moved through the mist. And the mist moved with the two. L ong, long, the Rooster sat by the dying fire. Or it seemed long. In point of fact it could not, he realized, have been, for the fire was fed stick by stick and chip by chip. The fire was empty, the stone pot was gone from it. No doubt the stout wife was about to dish out the food -- it would be welcome. He stretched. By salt! How cold and stiff he was. With a laugh that caught in his chest he said as he turned to his hosts, "I feel as though I had been under a -- " Under a spell... The words hung unspoken in the brittle air. He did not speak them because there was no need for him to complete the utterance, no one to address it to. Twenty feet away his pony stood and looked at him in silence. And they two -- and the embers in the fire -- were the only living things remaining there in the hollow at the bottom of the rise. All the others were gone. His dog, too. IF II M organ kept making mention of the cold, the cold. The furnaces were heated red-hot, then white-hot, and two stout servers (where one had done before) danced up and down on the boxbellows, forcing blasts of hot air into the pipes. Sweat in runnels ran down their heavy faces and their heavy flesh jogged and jounced. Others, hurrying by, perspired, too -- though not as much by far -- in the unaccustomed heat. Usually, at this time of year, the passageways were tolerable enough with only very small fires. Two guards, furs slung over their arms, limbs and bosoms bare, stopped another whom they knew. "The king -- " "She has asked for fruit -- let me go -- " ai;d she sped on by. Natural body warmth from all those in the vast bedroom would have served to warm it -- it was stifling. Anxiety was on every face -- still, much as those already there desired to remain, a sense of fairness and the rule constrained them to depart after a while and let others take their place. The rich and glossy furniture, except for one table on each side of the low bed, had been stacked against the wall. No one knew when Morgan's hair had begun to gray, all knew that she dyed it -- it framed on all sides in huge jetty folds the sunken face on the pillows. For moments now the face had been still. Someone on each side maintained a gentle finger on the pulse vein in each withered wrist. Some of those watching watched no longer steadily the sunken, unmoving face -- instead, their eyes flickered constantly to the single finger so gently held to each wrist. The room was silent. The face grimaced. A single sigh filled the room. "The hen -- the hen -- " "Yes, Father Mother!" " -- the hen -- the hen -- " "Yes, Father Mother!" The cracked, strained voice mumbled, muttered, dribbled nonsense -- it was all the same. She spoke. King Morgan spoke. Therefore she still lived. "Witches -- witches -- witches -- " "Yes, Father Mother!" Hands waved, gestured frantically. The witches -- in their glistening blacks slashed with glistening scarlet -- surged forward like a blackand-scarlet wave. The wave ebbed. " -- the hen -- the hen -- " "Yes, Father Mother!" Here and there was weeping. Someone cfld enough to remember the Zon King when she was not yet Zon King but Morgan alone -- young and vital, full of figure, having many lovers -- so someone wept. Someone young enough never to have remembered Morgan as other than the source of strength and power and the rule, Morgan, King of the Scopus Zons, Father Mother, sexless strong -- so someone wept. " -- the hen -- the hen -- " "Yes, Father Mother!" For a moment the old voice gobbled. It fell silent. The fingers stayed on the wrists. Then the wrists tore away, the withered figure sat bolt up in the bed, tore at the prime and priceless furs, at the butterfly silks. The glossy hair fell like a curtain across the seamed and riven face, was torn aside by the clawlike hands. "I cannot breathe! I cannot breathe! Fire -- fire -- I am on fire! You're boiling me alive -- alive -- " And, indeed, the gray-pale face had gone dull-red. Hands gestured, waved frantically. Messengers sped from the room, fled down the corridors, signaled impassionedly to the sweating servers atop the huge bellows-boxes. The sudden appearance of the clamoring, gesticulating figures below served chiefly to throw them out of rhythm. They rolled their eyes, could hear nothing, understood nothing, misunderstood enough to think that this relay, as the others, was come to urge them to pump more swiftly. And so, leaving off the incessant jogging from leg to leg, one side to the other, the two monstrous figures, breasts sweating black against coarse dun robes, took firm hold of the support bars before them and began to jump up and down, alternately, to force more air and hence more heat --  -- figures began to climb the spiderweb of ladders up to them --  -- voices shouted to rake out the furnaces, to douse them down with water --  -- shouting the loudest, about to risk the fearful heat to alert the stokers, was Captain Rack, hot, angry, disheveled --  -- laying upon Rack's arm a hand so cool that it commanded instant attention was -- "Memissary! Madame Sir! Yes, what -- " ide and to, if not precisely greater silence, certainly to less clamor and noise, the Memissary from the Hodus burroughs -- tall, serene, slender, this one, rumored to be in direct line for the kingship of her own Zons, the treble-row necklace of walrus ivory, insigne of her rank, heavy upon her white shoulders. "Madame Sir, yes?" "Captain, with or without the steam which your plan must produce, 'twill be hours before the chamber of the Morgan King can cool." This was so obvious that Rack could at first but gape. Then she bowed. "What does the Memissary say to do, then?" "Obtain a fitting litter and place the King upon it and remove her to a farther and a cooler place." Again -- obvious. Again -- unthought of Captain Rack placed IF her hands upon her breasts, bowed twice and, mouth already open for further shouting, turned to run back. But then She of Hodus once more placed her cool hand upon Rack's hot arm. "To walk means safer speed at present. I shall accompany you. You will meanwhile be composing yourself." One after the other the clear, crisp truths. Rack was, among captains, only one captain. Accompanied by the tall, imposing, hieratical figure of the Memissary, Rack saw all in that frenzied throng make way. And, as she composed herself, thus she began to think: it was the death-time of Morgan Father Mother, Zon King of Scopus; did she die today, tomorrow, a soonly death must come. Tlfcn what? However smooth the transference of power, things would change, would change for all things. Hence -- would change for Captain Rack. Nothing could prevent it. She might advance. She might stay as she was. She might find herself descending into unsought obscurity. She might be informed (bland words for Exile) that, "The roster was to be reduced," handed presents, told to return to her natal burroughs. After twenty years! To be flung into the dung-pit of the world of men! Or... Rack had never been so close and for so long to the Memissary. Each step they took together, deliberate pace more arresting than the swiftest race, was a step up the stairs of prestige for Captain Rack. Not necessary to hint that they two had been lovers -- best (by far) to give no such hint at all. Always, some would believe it. Might it be true, yet? Rack all but trembled. Common sense told her that official and urgent business only coupled them now and that, this business over, they might never -- probably never -- meet again. Still -- it was not certain. One might dream, hope. And more -- every Zon burrough had its "private people," its "friends," its "well-disposed" in every other Zon burrough. Rack was showing the She of Hodus that she could compose herself, was dependable. Surely, when it came lime to take thought of such matters. She of Hodus could hardly fail to think of Captain Rack. What, after all, could be more natural than that such a high-groomed Zon would want at least one stalwart soldiertype for a close companion? Indeed, so full was her mind of such thoughts that it was with a mental stumbling of surprise that Rack found the two of them at the chamber of Lady King Morgan, whose death-time had not yet passed. Still the Zon folk ascended and descended from all levels to have their last audience, still they would linger and still their code of honor made them regularly give way for others -- for others, were they new-fledged Grade One Initiates or stooped and aging retired Captains-at-arms -- on the double, thus, they made way for Rack and the Hodus-Memissary. Fans now waved over King Morgan as she rolled restlessly on her bed, still muttering gibberish, each mutter still evoking its respectful chorus. " -- the cockerel -- the cockerel -- " "Yes, Father Mother." " -- cockerel -- cockerel -- "Yes, Father Mother." "Yes, Father Mother." ""Yes, Father Mother!"' Ill H IS birth-name was Thiobud -- his father's-name, Phiniad. He remembered his natal burroughs little but that little distinctly -- swarms of children crawling in and out of hidey-holes they must have been allowed (in contradiction to all the safety principles of the rule) to grub out for themselves, so small were they -- noise by day and noise by night -- often hunger. And then one day, riding on his father's shoulders in a place without walls and the roof so high he had no word for it -- his earliest memory of the world outside. Recollection of the Orth burrough began abruptly. Instead of curling up anywhere on a filthy floor one slept in a particular place on a clean skin spread on a pile of clean hay. It smelled sweet -- the previous floor had not. Perhaps it was saying so to his father that brought from Phiniad, not given much to words, the comment: By learning new things we learn old ones, too. There were fewer children at Orth, far fewer. They dug no tunnels of their own. They were not suffered to stale or ease where they pleased like puppy dogs and were fairly frequently washed. More than this was not exacted of him at first. Later on he and several other children of an age were taken in one group and conducted around the main landmarks of the burrough -- with the customary smack across the behind to fix each one the more firmly upon their minds -- from the fishponds to the loomrooms (as the saying went). He thought that Orth was a very fine sort of burrough, indeed. And, indeed, he still thought so. Not long after that Orth underwent its first siege during his stay there. A mixed rabble of turfies (as the homeless, the outlawed, the ragged wanderers were called, after the sod huts in which they lived for lack of burroughs) stuffed up the smoke holes in hopes of suffocating the inhabitants. Who, instead of suffering themselves to be quietly stifled, retreated to lower levels and thence to outside by exits unknown to the IF turfies and caught the besiegers by surprise -- and were themselves caught by surprise. ' Seemingly forever over the upper land at an even space which did not vary between them by a handspan and at an even pace which hesitated not for fear and increased not for zeal and which was perhaps most terrifying of all (that relentless, steady step) came band after band of armed Zons. Their arrows began their murderous songs against the turfies while the archers were still well out of stones' throw. The longaxes finished the job. Only the turfy women were spared -- that is, only those of the women who had wit or willingness to tear open their tatters and, by baring their breasts, reveal both their sex and their preference for capturever death. The Zons had not, of course, come for the purpose of assisting the Orth folk, just as they had not (this time, at any rate) come to attack them. They had not even been on one of their periodic campaigns against the turfies. Long later he had heard that this group of bands had joined with others, and then all of them with others yet -- tales of an army of Zons marching westward into the horizon, of great battles somewhere afar off, of witchbirds (buzzards, some called them) covering the multitudes of dead -- dead women who had fought more fiercely than men, preferring always the embrace of death to that of men, the caress of bloody black wings to the caress of men. Always. N ot long after that his father took him to what (he later realized) was in effect a Council of the Elders. He had already seen most of them here and there and one by one, white-haired and white-bearded men in soft white robes -- not till then had he seen them all together. In part it was much as though he were visiting any other group of older people -- they said he was a fine boy, laid their hands on his head and wished him well, asked him if he liked it there more than in his natal burrough, beamed and chuckled at his emphatic Yesl In other part, however, he was aware of a difference. In the Council cell light filtered from the light-well through panes of translucent shell upon the Elders, some of them so old indeed that their very flesh seemed translucent. And their thin old hands seemed to rest upon his head far longer than usual. He was asked questions other old people never asked him -- and some of them dealt with things which were, and some of them dealt with things which were not but might be. And what, he was asked, would he do in such and such an instance? Or under this or that circumstance? Finally one of them handed him a strip of skin. "Can you read?" he asked. "Yes, my Elder, I am able to read." The boy flipped the skin strip over and quickly ran his fingers over the tiny bosses and almost at once a look of ludicrous outrage came over his face. He cried out, "This is -- this is wrong!" Several of the old men chuckled. One laughed outright. A few smiled. One gazed at the boy intently and without change of expression. And one gazed off as though into infinite space, his head never ceasing its incessant nodding, as though in continous agreement. The particular Elder who had given him the strip of skin asked, "Why is it wrong?" "I don't know why -- I know how. Listen, it says, Thiobud the son of Panerad the son of Phiniad -- and so on. But it is my father who is Phiniad -- " And the old man said, "True enough -- but this does not make the record wrong. It refers to Thiobud, who was your father's father and whose father was Panerad the son of an earlier Phiniad. But these things you will learn in time. In time you will learn more than all of us here together have yet learned." The boy's face, showing surprise at first, then keen attention, was turned full upon the Elder, whose eyes now held his. His red hair seemed the sole spot of color in that underground chamber, all shadows and greys and dim whites. His youth was the sole source of freshness in the Council cell, among the old, old men and their collective weariness, the smell of dust and age and the ancient furnishings. Demeran, Chief of the Elders (he died soon afterward), said, "No man's life can ever be altogether his own -- but yours will and must be less your own than is usuual. Prepare yourself for this. When you next see something you particularly desire and may have, deny yourself it. When you next are about to do something you particularly desire to do and may do, deny yourself the pleasure of doing it. Cultivate this habit by day and by night, for it will provide you with excellent training and habits of discipline and selfdenial, excellent habits for all men -- but most excellent for you." Demeran said, "You have seen the turfies. Their freedom from the burrough rule and from the need to subordinate and to submit they have purchased at the price of thirst, nakedness, animality, outlawry, incessant hunger and early death." Said Demeran, "You have seen the Zons. Wealth and military power they have obtained but they IF have obtained it by the sacrifice of natural love and natural softness and by the carefully and artificially cultivated hatred of half of humankind." And he said, "You have seen life in your natal burroughs, whither your father went during a time needed to resolve certain personal uncertainties -- and you will have observed and remembered that where there is no constraint there is no cleanliness, where there is no cleanliness there is no order there is no amenity." His thin old voice had grown stronger and all his fellow sages nodded at his words. There were many more words before he paused in sheer fatigue and sipped at a tiny ng of milk and water. The words seemed to hang in the air, heavy as thoughts -- the shadows were gathering in the declining day and it seemed to Thiobud that the shadows were the old man's words and were heavy with heavy thoughts and that they were presently to gather around him. In another moment he might have shuddered or shrunk away, perhaps even turned and fled -- but that other moment never came. Someone lit a lamp and he became aware of the familiar evening (also afternoon, also morning)cramp of hunger in his belly. That the evening meal be postponed in Orth was as unthinkable as that any other essential and scheduled routine be postponed. Therefore the gathering must soon terminate -- therefore he could endure waiting until it did. As sure enough soon it did. The old one still gathering his wool from infinite distance and nodding, nodding, nodding, said (as they bowed and were dismissed, father and son). "Be sure, Phiniad, he is one." Over the stewbowls the harmless halfwit who was permitted to eat with the boys said to him, "Ha, they got you now." Thiobud said, "What?" "They got you now." "What?" The manboy indicated the direction of the Council cell -- then all thought of it left his face and he slyly stole someone's chunk of bread -- something which he did so adroitly and with face subsequently so innocent and immobile that even the victim could not stay angry at him. "What do you mean, they got me now?" But the other merely dipped his crumb and crust into the stew and sucked and munched and gave no sign of either hearing the question or understanding it. Eveningdole was good -- it was food, good food and all boys had healthy appetites. They ate with good will, talked in good voice to each other, laughed, chattered, made plans for tomorrow, passed bowls for seconds to the table captain. And he -- Thiobud did the same. But all the time like a wreath revolving and showing the same vines and ferns and flowers, like a wreath revolving over the head of a seated bridewoman, so did words seem to revolve as though visible and seen, the same ones over and over again. You will learn more than all of us together. Be sure, Phiniad, that he is one. They got you now. Over and over, around and around. Again and again. Why would he be learning more than all of the Elders together? He was one what? Who had got him? The meal went on as before, all things went on as before, but he knew without knowing why that nothing was nor would ever be again quite as before. And, like a wreath upon horsehair threads, like a wreath at a wedding-feast, the endless chain of words revolved and revolved and slowly slowly spun around... You will learn more than all of us Be sure that he is one They got you now You will learn more than all of us Be sure that he is one They got you now Around and around and around. IV H e saw the first of the whitelimed boulders from a very far off. Scopus -- or at least early sign of it. The sign signified, as all well knew, Be exceedingly sure that you approach only on what we would consider appropriate business. All through the whole of the next day he passed such rocks at regular intervals, passed as well fields and pastures, these outer ones all empty at this season of the year. The night he spent in a clean and empty house where, probably, herders lodged. It was spotless and held stacks of fuel but no food -- he would scarcely have ventured to help himself to any in any case. A man coming unbidden iqto Zon country -- and when was a man ever bidden to enter Zon country -- had to be very careful indeed. He looked around to see if there were any reading-tapes but there were none, not even so much as an empty spindle set. Cautious, the Zons. It was halfway through the next morning that he saw the first guardpost house, a small triangular structure. He had no doubt that there were ample burroughs beneath -- perhaps, even from here, underground ways led all the way to the main settlement, supplied along the way with light and air through cunningly hidden shafts: indeed, rumor even endowed such ways with water in the form of diverted springs. Two of the guards were already outside. Had they simply sharper eyes than he? Had the underground rooms served as echo chambers, giving warning of his pony's hooves? Or was there some Zon magic at work? Having no anIF swers, Thiobud merely shrugged, glanced to see that the white rag was still a-dangle from the pole resting its butt end in the lance socket and rode on -- but before he came within arrow range he tied the pole to the harness and raised both his hands, guiding his mount with his knees. He had never seen Zons this close before. He asked himself; apart from the neat and trim lines of their winter furs, in exactly what way did they differ from others? A wooden gong made from a slit and hollowed log hung from a tripod and the guard standing by it with beater raised was unmistakably a woman. The one in the doorway, whose bow and nocked arrow followed him as he approached, might have been a boy. Any female curves either might have had were lost in the concealing furs. Friendship on their faces would have surprised him; its absence did not. Neither was fear there, nor alarm, nor hatred -- chiefly a certain cool caution. But besides and beyond any expression familiar to him he saw on both their faces a common expression which was not. He could not as yet define it, more than to say in his mind that it was strange, that they both had it, this look -- that they were both Zons -- and so his mind said. It is the Zon look... Well. He had heard. Now he saw. And if he were careful and if luck were with him and if he "had a good witch," he would likely see before very long a number of other things of which he had until now only heard. And if he were careless or luck were not with him or he "had a bad witch" he might find himself at the bottom of a very deep and very dark pit with several Zon arrows in between his ribs and at least one in his heart. T he guards at First Post had not precisely welcomed him, but he had not expected them to. He was the fly and they the spider, he entered at his own risk and he knew at least in general terms the perils of the web. In fact, he thought, with a sudden smile quirking a corner of his mouth, that sounded like a not-bad title for a minor epic, to be recited in meter to the accompaniment of one or two strings and a small hand-drum: The Perils of the Web... A gust of wind came whistling down the valley, froze his grin. He tugged his hood tighter about his face. Greater risks or not, he would they had allowed him to go by the burrough-ways. No -- welcomed he had not been -- but the rule was that a whiteragger was entitled to pass and, as the stocky old saltmaster (where had they all vanished to -- and how fast -- and why?) had pointed out, Zons kept to the rule. No doubt they had helped make it, too. Certainly it benefited them as well, being as they were so far outside the general order of things with their manless society, to help create and maintain an order above all local orders, above even the general order of things. For it was the rule alone and only the rule which enabled them on their periodic rounds to ride up, whiteragging, to any burrough, to engage in that curious spectacle in which their well-trained ponies would rhythmically stamp the ground above the burroughs -- an unmistakable signal -- and to proclaim to the multitude of never-friendly faces that they were there to accept any recruits... any prisoners... any children for "adoption or education"... any... so long as they were female. Never a pleasant scene. Often: howls, hoots, jeers. But the rule was the rule. And sometimes they did not ride away unaccompanied. Now Thiobud (the son of Phiniad the son of Thiobud son of Panerad son of Phiniad and so on and on) was himself benefiting. The guards had not cared for his use of the term reeling -- a good thing to have realized, a piece of information he would keep in mind and pass along for the future -- and certainly they would have cared even less for an unmanned woman, archaic phrase in any case and ludicrously inapplicable to one raised from childhood by the Zons. So he was obliged to explain that what he meant, exactly, was: A woman who had been raised among the Zons from childhood but who had not yet taken the Zon-pledge and so was hence able to leave if she so desired. The proper term, he soon learned, was "a foster-guest." Callers such as he did not come often. That was apparent. But something else was apparent, too -- it was in the air, it was evident in certain hesitancies, certain glances. And he had no idea what it was or even might be. They had signaled on ahead by gong-beats, which of course conveyed nothing to him, and he had been allowed to ride on. Several guardposts later it had begun to snow and he was beginning to fear that he might perhaps miss his turn-in (or its guards miss him) and ride by it -- which brought up not only the risk of freezing to death but the probably greater risk of his being shot at when he appeared in an area where he was not supposed to be... small use a white rag against the white blinding blanket of the snow. But he did not miss it. The ground was rising now and he was on the lookout. He saw the great stone gates and he saw the guardpost house and the by now familiar gong and tripod (house and gong and tripod all three much larger than those of the outposts) -- but he saw no one on guard. He waited long but the cold overcame his caution -- or, rather, IF under those towering crags, of all Scopus landmarks the best known, and in that snow and wind the cold provided a caution of its own. So he called out his coming and rode up to the post house. Lamps had been lit and a brick box with a metal door radiated heat but no one was within. Quite a while he stayed there. Then he heard his pony pawing the ground. Then the wind changed its direction and he realized that the noise he had (without especially considering it) assumed to be the wind was .only in part the wind. And was in part -- What? He sighed, shook his head, went out, brought his beast under the eaves of the house and poured grain into tRb small basket for it. Then he took up his pole and the small bit of cloth to which he trusted his life -- and he went on through the great stone gate. T he Upper Entrance to Scopus burroughs was marked by a huge triple arch carved out of living rock. The spaces enclosed within the outlines of the treble curves were crowded with bas-reliefs and statues illustrative of the histories of the first three kings but statues and reliefs alike were clotted with snow. Beneath the pediment a vast door for each arch had long ago been cut into the rock -- or, precisely, the lineaments of vast doors. The doors were for the most part false -- rock faces did not swing upon rock hinges -- but the lowermost panels were true doors and, as Thiobud came trudging through the road, he saw these doors were swung open wide. The interior blazed with light. A huge tent was in process of being erected and at least a full thousand Zons in every state of dress and undress swarmed around. Some raced up with poles, others heaved upon ropes, some swept from the holes socketed in the ground the snow that clogged them -- others kneeled and scooped it out with bare hands, snow falling upon their bare shoulders. Others, while parts of the huge pavilion still sagged and billowed, came tottering forward with rugs and carpets which at once were unrolled. Others staggered beneath the weight of furniture. He saw at least fifty of them bringing in braziers, saw the braziers' red eyes winking and blinking in the uncertain wind. No one seemed to see him at all. And now another mass seemed not so much to exit from the huge gaping iliouth of the Upper Entrance as to eddy about in it, now forward, now slightly backward, now slightly to one side, a bit forward -- and, as the last section of the huge tent reared upright and settled slightly, its rich red and purple folds brightening the darkening day, this new mass of people passed slowly forward and out of the gates and into the pavilion and was hidden from his sight. A sight so strange this was that Thiobud, observing in openmouthed astonishment, could hardly be sure of what was happening. But he saw that some, at least, of those emergent had been carrying something upon their shoulders. He thought it looked like a sort of bed -- did he also have a glimpse of black hair rolling and tossing in a brief gust of wind? Of a gray face moving from side to side? The wind of a fierce sudden blew back his hood and his hand moved automatically to restore it -- did the gray face (if such it was) turn in his direction? Did a tiny hand fling itself toward him? Did not his eye-stone briefly tingle? It had all happened in so brief a time that he could be sure of none of it. He saw the gold embroidered tent flaps sink slowly downward. He saw all but one of the doors of the Upper Entrance swing shut. And stood as alone as before, unknowing what to do. T he motives of one chosen as Zonvizier are notoriously mixed. On the one hand there is the immediate access to great power and prestige via the office of Second Servant of the Burroughs -- the First Servant, of course, being the King herself. On the other hand there is the instant realization that whoso has ever held the office of Second Servant may never aspire to hold that of First -- and, for that matter, may never even be certain of continuing to hold that of second. Zon kings never retire and never resign and are never (but never, never) deposed. Zonviziers, on the other hand, hold office solely by the pleasure of the supreme officeholder. And this pleasure is often such by conventional designation alone. In burroughs (not, of course, in Scopus burroughs) where intrigue rather than industry, the arts, affections or any other emotion or combination of emotions holds sway, it is not unknown for a potential troublemaker to occupy the Second Seat for a very brief time indeed. In the morning the would-be disturber of the scene is called before the First Seat arid handed the symbolic Shield of Office -- in the evening the Zonvizier hands it back to the Father Mother King. Who hands it back to her. Except that in such cases there comes an evening when the Father Mother King does not hand it back. "Go and rest," says the First Servant to the Second. And: "Yes, Father Mother -- " says the now-without-office. To others she says, "Father Mother has been pleased to allow me to rest." And they reply -- if they truly are her friends -- "How fortunate you are. Burdens chafe and heavy IF burdens usually chafe heavily." Except that sometimes, instead of letting their eyes fall or sighing sympathetically or offering a lovegesture, they say, "Well, that didn't last long, did it? Didn't I tell you that you should (or should not) have done thus and so? Ah, but no, you would not listen -- no, not you. Well. Ah!" She then knows that these are not her true friends and never were but of course it is too late. Those who hold no power can bestow none and so by the brief bestowal of glory the possibility of their ever holding the greatest of glories is forever removed. But King Morgan had never felt the need to use such tactics -- quite the opposite. It was said, though never of course in the presence of a Zonvizier, that Morgan felt it would be unwise in the extreme ever to appoint to the Second Seat anyone who either aspired to the it. "I govern while I live," was the precise way she put it. "And after I cease to live I shall cease at all to govern." In other words, she would take no steps to disqualify as her successor any who might otherwise be qualified to succeed her. In some measure, therefore, the aura of the zonviziership was dimmed and for over a generation it had been held by a succession of nonentities. The present occupant was a Captain Krug (between the captaincy and the viziership there were no active ranks), massive, stolid, more than somewhat dim in personality. Captain Krug, as captain, had gone by the rule and by the direction of her superiors. Zonvizier Krug, as Zonvizier, did the same. Whenever possible. At present, however, the Zonvizier scarcely knew what was possible and what was not. A king did not die every day and Krug, who was in middle-age, scarcely remembered the death of the last one. She had certainly not taken Zonvows at the time and so had been obliged to do nothing but weep and follow the prescribed mourning. No doubt the rule had something to say but the knowledge of it had dimmed, ebbed, since then... No doubt there were a few aged Zons about who might remember something. But not only could the Second Servant not ask the First, "What must I do in this -- the matter of your dying?" Even if the Morgan King were all sharp of mind the Second Servant could not have brought her tongue to say it. She could not bring her tongue to state that it was indeed fell death and not illness alone that stalked the burroughs of the Valley of Scopus. She had an all but fully formed belief that, were she to ask in what manner she should act about the king's death or dying the pace of IF dying might immediately increase. Not knowing what to do the Zonvizier did nothing or did whatever the loudest voice suggested she do -- assuming it was not against the rule. The face of Captain Rack was just a face to the zonvizier -- but it was the face of a captain and, hence, the face of one entitled to suggest things in a loud voice. The Hodus Memissary was in the same category -- no, in a higher one, for the Zonvizier herself had invested the Madame Sir with the customary and honorary rank of captain of captains, which in theory at least placed her below only the Zonvizier. There was nothing, to be sure, in the rule or any other customary usage about erecting the King's Pavilion in the winter -- but there had been a few occasions when it had been erected only because Father Mother Morgan had felt unwell and not for the more usual purposes of ceremony. Captain Rack spoke loudly -- the Memissary smiled her cool and enigmatic smile, the Zonvizier -- half-distracted with grief and confusion -- gave the orders. Someone was to be sent for -- the King had mentioned... The King had mentioned! The vizier's middle-aged mind, numbed with sorrow and indecision, seized upon this single point. It meant doing at last something one knew that Morgan King had wanted done. The zonvizierial fingers were snapped. Equerries sprang to the zonvizierial side. Heads were bowed respectfully. "Let the Second Seat say -- "  The Second Seat said, "Let the young person Tintinna be at once brought here -- that is, not here -- we are all going above in order that Father Mother escape this overheat. The Great Pavilion -- escort her there at once -- at once -- at once -- " The Memissary smiled. Captain Rack did not. snow-laden winds, grown tired of their amorphous writhings, had taken on shapes and forms. In a moment, though, he realized that the forms were those of people. They spoke to him, gestured, laid their fingers on the sleeves of his jacket. Their faces and their eyes were red -- and somehow he judged that this was not from cold. He had for some while prior to this been not aware of the cold. It was the all-encompassing element, it had conquered and transformed the air, had in fact become the air and one usually takes the air for granted. Now, suddenly, he was again aware of the cold and aware of his weariness -- he bent his head submissively and began to follow the shapes. But they had stopped. For one long second they gazed at him. The the nighest one gently (it seemed gently) put up her long, thin, gauntleted hand and pulled down his hood. He had hardly been aware it had slipped. And then, together, they went at a quick pace to the great tent. For a brief moment in the waning day the flurry of snow halted and a thin effusion of the ruddy light of sunset made the purple covering seem somewhat crimson. Then this all vanished. The shadows on the snow were blue and the great pavilion itself turned black. Those standing on guard just inside the entrance, furs opened and displaying habits of black adorned with gold-broidered work, gave low exclamations of astonishment as the others entered. "Then there was a person -- 'outside,' " one of them said wonderingly. "Just as Father Mother said -- " "Just as she said. And -- " But one of his guides shook her head, as though to cut off further comment. She placed her hand upon his sleeve and drew him along through the throng of turning heads and opening mouths, through the sudden drop in the low-pitched hum of conversation, through the deepening silence. Incredible, incredible -- a swarm of people and all of them women! And all of them -- ah, well -- all of them had the Zon look. How old did they have to be before they took the oath or pledge? Nor was it that they all looked at him with hate, though hate was there -- at least on some faces -- it wasn't even that he was a man, rare though men must be in any Zon burrough or encampment. It was simply the look. "Father Mother, here is he." The black hair (dyed, it must be dyed), the old, gray, sunken face, the incredibly rich coverlets and furs, of the woman lying there on what in that brief glimpse he had believed might be a bed. It was doing duty as one now, resting at bed height off the floor; actually it was a sort of litter or palanquin. Had she, whoever she was, actually seen him there outside as they bore her in? The lids fluttered up from the sunken eyes, huge and gray and glazed, barely focused, barely aware of anything any longer. The shrunken lips seemed to struggle, uncertain as to whether to permit or restrain the tongue which at last emerged, then retreated. What was it she was saying? " -- the cockerel, the cockerel -- " Someone said, "Yes, Father Mother!" Someone else with a light touch took hold of the hood of his jacket and pulled it back and down. He could feel, as he always felt, the roach of red hair rising as it was released from the pressure of the hood. And he felt -- was aware of -- the throng's reaction even before he heard it gasp. " -- the cockerel," moaned, mumbled the very old woman. "Yes, Father Mother," the IF crowd said, sighed and echoed. There was a stir not from the far edge of the old woman's litter and a clump or cluster which till then had been an undifferentiated part of the throng now seemed to part from it. Once again he felt something for which he could find no words, as though (and now he seemed to have a clearer image of it) as though something soft and velvet-webby was moving inside his mind, stroking his brain. At once, abruptly, it ceased to be pleasant -- a sensation like vertigo hit him hard. Dressed in black robes of wide cut, slashed with scarlet, black-peaked bonnets from head to shoulders and scarlet beneath -- it might have been ten women, it may have been twenty -- moved, swayed, looked at him, threw up their hands in a sinuous gesture which seemed to run through them like a wave. He pushed back against the ugly, dull feeling -- it vanished. Someone in his ear said, very low, "The witches -- " Now these women set up a keening and repeated one sound three times. "Oh -- " "Woe -- " "No -- " Uneasy was the throng. A voice said, "Silence!" A voice said, "As Father Mother wishes." A voice said, "Your beloved Morgan King -- " Not quite had each voice spoken together with each other voice. He glanced away from the mass of witch women while the voices still sounded, superimposing their own notes upon the other ones. He saw the sullen, blocklike face he did not know was that of Captain Rack. He saw the sturdy and bewildered face he did not know was that of the Zonvizier -- saw the long and gracious and cryptically smiling face he did not know was that of the Memissary. He saw, too, a fourth face, a younger face, felt a tir of something more than merely interest. It was not alone that this was the youngest face, certainly, in all this crowded pavilion, not alone that it was by no means an uncomely face -- something more stroked softly across his mind. It was the only face there that did not have the Zon-look. And the absence of it was as unmistakable as its presence. V H e had not realized how grateful he had been of the warmth until once more he was out in the cold. Now it was the snow and the outside again and altogether the wrong time of day -- night? But another pony was trotting along beside his and someone else sat the second pony. A third one with no rider but a deal of gear was coming along behind. It had all been so easy. It had perhaps been too easy. There had hardly been a parley at all. He had thought of what he would say and no one had asked him to say anything. He had thought there would be great hostility toward him and it had not been directed toward him at all. He had thought to initiate a talk about a woman, no doubt to return again to continue it, to see her, to consider, to return perhaps a third time -- perhaps not to return ever. But it had not happened at all like that. And here he was, riding through the darkness and the snow with the woman. He corrected his thoughts: With a woman. How could he possibly, in such a brief course of time, know. Something shrilled in his ears. Without thinking he flinched away from it, found himself hanging over his mount's neck. What in witchbane was it? It was she, the girl or woman, he scarcely knew -- it was a whistle she had in her mouth, on a lanyard. An odd white whistle of a sort he'd never seen before and she blew those horrid shrills upon it -- but why? When she had to cover her own ears? No, she was not muffling her ears. She was cupping them, not trying to muffle the sound but to amplify it. He fell behind her and at once realized something as odd as all the rest of it -- he could see her cheeks puffed out as she blew upon that devilish little pipe but he could no longer hear it. Perhaps it had clogged? No -- in that instant she veered her pony around and came abreast of him without ceasing to blow and the instant they drew level he once again heard it and he cried out. At once she stopped. Stopped the whistle, stopped the pony. "I am sorry," she said. Her voice was the same here as it had been back there, not that he had heard much of what she said, not that she had said much -- mostly farewells and thanks. Certainly something of the Zon speech was in her voice -- but something was in it which was not. There seemed a faint drawling trace of the speech of a burrough he could almost identify -- unimportant, that, now. "But it was necessary. We go this way now. Please?" He muttered, "Of course -- you know that we must soon take shelter?" She nodded. "What is that? Zon witch-magic?" She seemed to consider how to explain it, then said, "I am trying to find my bearings here in the snow and the dark. The snow distorts the echoes but I think we are going the right way now. Do you know my name?" she asked. "It is Tintinna." "And mine is Thiobud. They call me -- it is very strange -- no, I suppose not so very. Well, they call me Rooster." "The cockerel," she said. "Yes, it is the same thing, I suppose. IF Mother spoke of that before she saw you tonight, did you know that? She has been speaking of that for a few days now. 'The cockeral and the hen.' " Mainly he had shelter in mind. Vaguely he did not relish the notion of viewing their relationship (whatever it was or was not to be) on the simple level of the poultry coop. He peered through the formless dark, could see nothing. She had blown her mad whistle so that she could listen to the echoes. Like a bat. Abruptly she said, "No, it wasn't that, it's -- oh, a new child is always called a 'chick.' But it was just that I was sort of Mother's pet and she called me her hen -- that's all. And," she said, still softly, yet firmly, "there was nothing of that between us -- or any of them -- or else it's not likely they'd have sent me off so simply, so soon. Not that I haven't been ready to go for a while now. But you mustn't take anything for granted." They were on windswept land now. The hooves rang hard and loud on the rock-hard ground. And the way was up. He said, "I did not think -- " and paused, uncertain of how he should word it. "If not now, later. It would be inevitable -- that you at least think about it. Zon is Zon, after all. But I am not Zon. Still -- " and a sound in the darkness inade his heart warm toward her, for he knew that she was laughing there in the darkness of the winter night -- with a stranger. "Still," she said again, "Zon is Zon. Up to the last minute. That old Memissary, the one in the brown robes with the huge ivory necklace -- you know, she didn't want me to go. I don't know why -- not love, I'm sure of that. But poor Rack -- she thought it was. Oh, her poor face! That was why she kept practically shouting in the poor old Zonvizier's ear. Father Mother wants them away -- And, well, who knows what the poor old thing really wants? A prophecy? Rack made it out to be one. Still, even if Morgan had prophesied your coming, wen if she did foresee our being together, who knows that she wanted it so? The witches didn't like your reek at all, did they? Hold on!" There was a scan of ice and the ponies slipped and slithered, then righted themselves. Then there was a wall upon the right, then one upon the left. Then -- echo, echo, echo -- suddenly Tintinna let out a whoop and the echoes rolled and multiplied and he knew that they were inside a burrough. A nd still the death-watch continued. Extra braziers were brought and, swiftly, deftly, blankets were held up to them to be warmed. Deftly, swiftly the ones on the Zon King's bed were rolled halfway off and fresh ones rolled halfway, then all the way. The Second Servant snored in her chair and most of the former watchers had retired to their own cells for rest. Some, however, had rolled into their furs and lay upon the rugs -- now and then walking and rising and watching, sometimes silently, sometimes murmuring to others, usually returning to the rugs for further slumber. The Memissary had made some concession to her own weariness. She sat upon a stool and her heavy necklace reposed upon her lap where her fingers told the tusks over and over again, as though she were reading a tape. She faced the crouching clusters of witches, a sunken, sullen huddle of black and red. "Great is the strength of the Morgan King," she said. After their customary usage they answered her in turn. "Ah, Mem -- her strength is great but -- " " -- the truth is, although great strength -- " " -- is in her yet, yet her strength is not -- " " -- great at all. Ah, nay, Mem, for -- " " -- it is our strength which sustains it, as -- " " -- one sustains a fire by blowing on it but -- " " -- for this fire, Mem, ah, there is no -- " " -- more fuel, ah -- " "Ao -- " They rocked their heads. "OA -- " They waved their hands. "Woe -- " They sobbed and wailed. "Nor for much longer -- can we thus sustain -- our Kingly Lady dear -- it is only that we hope -- she may yet return her mind -- and reveal to all -- or at least, at least -- to us, to us -- who shall next ascend -- ascend, ascend -- who shall next ascend -- the Primest Place -- the First Seat -- but we fear, we fear -- we fear, we fear -- not here alone -- not here alone -- " They chanted and they wailed, swaying from side to side, lolling their heads and rolling their eyes. The upraised hand of the Memissary was long and slender. She lowered two fingers, placed her thumb oa one. The chanting stopped. With dull and reddened eyes they looked at the hand, wetted their cracked lips, breathed noisily through their nostrils. The hand sank once more into the Memissary's lap, once more her other hand caressed the sea-morse tusks. The Mem had no need to raise her voice. "I know what it is you fear. I fear it as well. My own witches have warned me -- us -- that is, the wise ones of my own burrough. Besides, there have been signs. Dreams. Waking warnings -- " The witches sighed and the witches groaned. They had the IF witch-puffed lips -- they had the witch-puffed eyelids, and their hands were puffy with witch-puffed flesh that gave off the witch-bitter reek. Small need then, if identification were desired, for silksmooth black and the inner lining of blood-slick red. Their faces were turned full on the Memissary and all their mouths were opened but she flinched not at all from the witchstale rancor of their witch-stench breath. "Wise women, wise ones, sisters sage, something trembles in the stillness of night, something whispers in the silence of the stars, something very ancient desires not to be discerned while it struggles to be born anew." "OA -- no -- woe. What may we do?' The delegate bent her long and comely neck. The witches slithered closer and raised their heads, open-mouthed. An observer might have thought, had she or he been accustomed to think in terms so unhuman, that here was a cobra feeding frogs. "Listen," she said and her voice was cool and her voice was low and her eyes glittered and the breath hung thin and pale upon the thick, stale air. "Listen, my lovelies and my loves -- ah -- listen! echo altered and almost at that instant the lead pony stopped. At once he heard her dismounting and then making the little muttering noises a woman uses when she searches for something, the location of which she feels she knows absolutely and which she somehow cannot find. A grunt succeeded these homey sounds and then there appeared in the darkness a dim glow that spurted into a ragged blaze of light against which he shielded his eyes. The light settled into the symmetrical flame of a torch blazing evenly where there is no breeze. She was holding it out to him and, he having taken it, she reached her hand into a kind of press or cabinet carved into the wall and took out another torch. It blazed up in her hand. After seconds, during which he blinked, he asked, "How did that happen? The torch catching fire just like that?" "It did not really. That's a photon pile. You don't understand me? and if I said stasis, non-stasis, sapce, time, energy, matter, technology -- would you understand me? No, not even in Orth. Well, so I made it light by Zon witchmagic." It seemed that this explanation quite satisfied her. It had to do for him and, for the moment,he left it so and began to divide his attention between his new surroundings and his new companion. Here, it seemed, was a very old type of burrough indeed, for the echoes had indicated their entrance had been by the customary corridors and now they were entering what was obviously a natural cave or cavern. Such types had eventually fallen into desuetude; they were felt to imply a lack of craftsmanship and sophistication -- also, they were felt not to feel snug. As for the girl -- He swung about on his seat, the torch flaring somewhat from his sudden movement. He saw, close by the compartment where the lights had been stored, a door slowly closing. But it was impossible, both by virtue of the insufficient light and its flickering and by the distance, for him to say if or not it was being closed by whom. Or what. He felt wonder. He was aware that he ought to feel fear but was by no means certain that he did. Things had been calculated rather to a nicety in these corridors, for scarcely had the torches begun to flutter and blink and give less and less light than they came to another place where torches were stored; it was well before this second issue was exhausted that they reached what was evidently their destination for the balance of the night. She looked up at his drawn-out sigh of sheer wonder, smiled faintly and dismounted. If one could imagine such a thing as a vast stone house set squarely upon the top of another such, a third upon the second and a fourth and fifth and sixth resting upon each other, then imagination would supply the likeliness of what he saw before them. All was made -- evidently -- not by piling stones upon stones but by carving this incredible series of pseudostructures from the face of the living rock of the cavern. It had not been too long since others had last visited this place, for the bin of broken sweetpods from which she filled the ponies' feed baskets smelled merely faintly musty, the pods were not moldy at all. The animals gave two somewhat dubious sniffs of inquiry and set to eating. Water for them ebbed from a cut in the wall into shallow troughs, overflowed into a channel which crossed the floor and vanished into darkness. Tintinna unloaded and unsaddled her mount and he, having followed her example, helped with the pack beast, the torches reposing in brackets behind which the soot of centuries (and perhaps centuries ago) had stained the walls. From one of her pouches she withdrew a long lanyard of finely braided colored leathers on which was a single, slender piece of metal. This she dipped into the water and then slipped it into the keyhole of the door. "A curious kind of key," he said, "which has neither any wards or any notches -- " IF All her answer was, "Indeed it is. " She found lamps that flicked magically into light with a smoother and smaller illumination than the torches and set them on trays and he took one of the trays and followed her. Presently a series of rooms were illuminated, all furnished with everything not merely needful but desirable, from the mats under the rugs to the hangings on the walls, chairs, tables, divans, couches, cushions. There was food, too, in abundance, and wines and cordials in bottles which sparkled their various colors in the lamplight. "The last time I was here," she said, "was with Mother. We ate together -- here, at this table. I set it, just as I did tonight. And now -- strange -- I had never heard of you until a few hours ago and I know nothing about you except your name and burrough and descent -- Mother -- I suppose -- will never eat again." They sipped at something dark and clear and red that tasted sweet and left a crisp, tart aftereffect upon the tongue. "Were you fond of her?" She considered her glass and his question. "I was fond of her," she said. "But not very. Now you -- " "What?" "That is what I ask. 'What?' I have never lain with ny man and I don't know if I shall with you. I don't know, even, if that's your purpose. Certainly it is not your only purpose. You have not made the long journey from Orth and at this time of year just to get a woman. And I'm sure you hadn't come with tales of trade and barter and tales of tribute and this and that just to get a woman who had had an education. Orth, I am sure, does not lack for learning. Nor does Orth need to make alliances on such a basis. It's well you came, you know. I made no objection to going." He passed his hand along his crest and, holding out his glass, "I noticed," he said. He held the glass and squinted through it toward a lamp. Here was richness indeed! Merely a casual meal and no great ceremony -- fine liqueurs, and no candles of smelly tallow, softening as they burned but lamps that burned magically without smoke. "A Zon burrough is never at its best when the Zon King dies. There's always a question of succession and the more one is assured that 'here there is no question' the more one may be certain that a question there is or will be indeed. And for one such as me, partly outsider and partly -- well -- let us say that my position was anomalous -- " Recollection of those swarming, stalwart, grimTaced females made him wince. If such was the way they were while their king still lived he could imagine -- rather, he IF did not care to imagine -- what they might be like when she was dead and a new one not yet on the throne. Or, if one prefcrred, on the First Seat. And yet it was certain that it was only because he had come at that time and no other that this fortuitous concourse of events had taken place. Fortuitous? Or was it that he had a good witch? If he had, well, certainly she was not among that flock of sullen harpies who had moaned and crooned their distaste, their displeasure and their distrust of him. "Yes, your position now, I can see -- would be anomalous. But what was your position before?" She looked at him steadily and thoughtfully. "I think that what you mean is, not what was my position just before Mother -- before the Morgan King fell ill, but what was it, basically, all along? That is, what was the reason for my being in the burroughs of the Scopus Zon? You do mean -- Yes... "Well," she sighed faintly, "that takes us back to my own mother, my blood-mother, I mean -- and that -- I hope you are patient -- takes us back to my grandfather. My maternal grandfather. He was a person of some importance among the  northern sea-burroughs. There were intrigues. Threats of insurrections, invasions, oh, the usual ugly scenes. And, being a prudent as well as an important person, he sent my mother -- she was only a child -- over to Scopus with a considerable present. She was to be educated but she was under no circumstances to be allowed to take the Zon-vows until she had voluntarily returned to her natal place and lived there one year. If, after that time, she voluntarily returned to Scopus or went to any other Zon place -- well, then she could do as she pleased. "Grandfather evidently acted just in time. The whole of the northern sea-burroughs went into turmoil almost right after that and he was killed. Things settled down and were still quiet when she -- when my blood-mother returned. I have a notion that she didn't intend to stay more than that year -- but she met my father and he was really made to order for her purposes in fact, meeting him must have shown her what her purposes really were." Her purposes were to find the way to power, take power, hold power. And here was a charming and widely popular man on the road to legitimate power which he did not particularly desire and which he was certainly and basically too weak to hold for long after he had it. He wanted whatever attracted him at any moment and what attracted him the moment he saw the newly arrived and longaway young woman was she. Calymon was his name, Poridel was hers -- the wedding was famous for years afterward. Accession to office followed not long after. Calymon soon tired of it but Poridel did not. Therefore Calymon continued to hold office and, through him, so did Poridel. "He hadn't really known how you stayed in office," his daughter said. "He thought it was done the same way you entered office. He thought it was because the people liked you and he thought they liked you because you were likable. But she knew better. You can't imagine how useful the Zon training had been for her. She spun webs of intrigue around the other intriguers while they were still laboriously spinning single threads. There wasn't anything she wouldn't do -- in fact, there was scarcely anything she didn't do. And he found out. And it killed him." The final blow was the discovery of his wife's connection with Arteman, a younger and more vigorous version of himself And, while Calymon lay with his face turned to the wall of his chamber, Arteman was inducted as his successor. Then Calymon covered his face, and died. Difficulties? Not because of that -- but difficulties certainly. Certainly Poridel wanted power, but she wanted other things as well. Arteman, for example. Arteman was much like Calymon, but Tintinna was Calymon's daughter -- she was not Arteman's. "I was thirteen. She found us together. He was holding me around the waist and I was hitting him and he was laughing... Oh, witches! Her face -- " Thiobud said, "And so she did the same thing her father had done. Sent you to Scopus. To protect you." The quiet mask of her face vanished. "To protect me?" she cried, incredulous. "She would have dropped me over a cliff if it could have been done without notice. But, as it couldn't, she sent me to Scopus. And there I was. It's been five years." "But I don't see -- I mean, surely if you were to return now, after five years, wouldn't he -- that is -- " A faint smile twisted its way across her face and was in a moment gone. "You mean, she will be five years less desirable and I will be five years more? Don't think she wasn't able to see that. But her hope was that I would, if you follow me, get so Zon that even if I returned and even if Arteman played at me again I'd repulse him, not from fright as before, but as I'd. repulse any man. So she hoped. "Nice, isn't it?" He grimaced and then, as she got up and reached for a lamp, resolution, if not conviction, snapped up his head. She stood very still, her fingers just touching the lamp, having caught the slight movement. She looked at him inIF tently and without expression. "Neither do I know," he said, "if your old Mother King was a true prophet. And may never know. But I need not see every spoke to surmise a wheel. Listen, Tintinna, I had come to Zon to make a parley about you, although I didn't know that you were you. I feel now, indeed, that you are woman enough for any man, as I do feel myself man enough for any woman. But there is far more than that and this more either affects us both together or not at all and never. Will you resolve now to come with me, unharmed and unpressed, to Orth Burrough, and there hear and listen and there decide?" She handed him the lamp. He took it with one hand and took her hand with the other and he blew out the lamp. She took shelter in his cloak. She laughed. She kissed him. And, trusting, with a stranger, slept. Thiobud, dreaming, brought her safely home.  "What's odd?" "I remember these bearings. I punched them on the keyboard myself yesterday. I saw a dustcloud on the viewscreen -- too thin to register on the radar but I thought it advisable to avoid it as it may have contained particles of sufficient size to puncture the hull. You can't be too careful with clouds. It was just before your watch and I thought you might not appreciate the danger." Or you might, DeGrazza, have plunged straight into the cloud, daring with deathwish and heedless for the life on an alien who, to you, is one step from the ape, although pervertedly telepathic. And (Continued from page #) the alien wishes to live because that is the way of his kind, as it should be the way of yours. But you must hurry to death because it will be so pleasant then not to have to hurry... "You didn't instruct the brain telepathically?" "The brain is only for use when the computer breaks down," replied the alien stiffly. "Although the brain would know of the bearings because it checks all keyboard information." "So something threw the brain back in time." DeGrazza pondered. "I wonder -- wait a moment. You fed in these bearings just before your sleep period?" "That's right." Suddenly the whole scene of the near-disaster flashed back through DeGrazza's mind -- the asteroid sliding into the viewscreen, his own sense of danger, his fingers poised over the controls, the asteroid growing, the mountains becoming clear and huge, the alien dozing beside him, his eyelids fluttering, fluttering... And the sudden veering plunge into danger. "That's it!" gasped DeGrazza.I explained to the alien. The rapid eye movements visible through the lids which signify that a sleeper is dreaming. You were dreaming just before the ship went out of control -- I saw you. You were also asleep the first time we lost control, two days ago, although you woke up and brought the ship around." "I don't see the connection." "I'll tell you. In the mid-twentieth century an Earth doctor made an analogy between the brain and the computer suggesting that the purpose of sleep was to dream. Dreaming in effect cleared the mind of extraneous, accumulated dross, just as you clear a computer before reprograming. He carried out tests with people and computers, depriving them of dreams and clearing respectively. Both men and machines showed similar resultant hallucinatory behavior patterns." "I've heard that theory." "You see the implication? You're a pilot, you love your job, you shuttle to and fro between Altair Six and Eight all the time. Navigation is part of your job, you love it. You live by the compass, eat by the compass. You read bearings, you punch bearings, you sleep bearings. "You dream bearings... "And the brain will pick up a projected, telepathic dream of a series of bearings and assume that it is a direct instruction and act accordingly, as it has been taught, overruling the computer, radar, common sense and everything else. Not realizing, because it can't, that your mind is clearing itself in sleep." There was a long, thoughtful silence. The viewscreen was emptying now, the larger asteroids drifting behind; just the thin sprinkling of twinkling dots left, through which the computer eased the ship with unerring precision. And beyond the dust, the point of light into a glowing disc. DeGrazza relaxed in his seat, contemplating a long stay on the destination planet before returning home. He reckoned he'd earned it. You were right, DeGrazza. The solution to the problem is in the Altairid mind. And now you can IF go home to Mary and Cobb and the future because you know that they will want you back quickly for your earnings and your intelligence, if not for yourself Forget that long hdliday -- theres no point in thinking about it because you know you will not stay here. You must hurry forward again, consuming the future as it comes because that is your true way, consume avidly and avoid skillfully, wherever you sense it, the strychnine of death. Until, one day, the promise of the pill is too sweet... But not this time. Next? At last the alien spoke. "I fear there is much in what you say. I will go so far as to say that, in my opinion, you are right. I, too, have read with interest the writings of your Evans school of thought on dreams, yet the solution did not occur to me. It is sad to think that, in our efforts to make interplanetary travel safer, we have achieved the opposite. What are your suggestions?" "As I said before, the computers have never failed yet. You'll have to remove the brains." "True," sighed the Altairid. "We cannot prevent ourselves from dreaming." True indeed, thought DeGrazza with an inward clutch of premonition. As the ship sped on the final he wondered what the next night would contain and whether his dream fireball would be replaced by jagged asteroid peaks and black ravines, hurtling towards him at colossal speed. If only it were as simple as, say, pressing a button to clear a computer. Goodbye, DeGrazza of the tortured mind and plunging compulsions. We cannot feel superiority, only sympathy -- because on this occasion you have taught us; yet there is so much we could teach you, if you would let us. But you are so immersed in self-pity that you are hardly aware of those about you -- Mary, Cobb and -- the Altairid. DeGrazza and Earth, I thank you on behalf of Altair. And you don't even know my name...  ( Continued from page # ) "In that casethey -- or it -- " "He," Retief amended. "TT E'S overheard every word H that's been spoken since we landed." Magnan addressed the blossoms directly. "Look here, Herby -- you're aware that we're distressed diplomats, marooned here by an unfortunate accident -- " "I thought Slith and that other fellow -- Okkyokk -- were responsible," Herby corrected. "They seem dreadfully argumentive chaps. I do wish they'd lower their voices." "Quite -- now, you're aware of their hostile intentions toward Mr. Retief and myself -- " "Oh, my," Herby interrupted, "they do seem upset. Such language -- " "Yes. As I was saying -- " Magnan paused. "What do you mean, 'such language?' " "I was referring to Grand Commander Slith's rather graphic use of invective," Herby explained. "Not that General Okkyokk isn't holding his own, of course. I must say my vocabulary is expanding rapidly." "You speak as though you could hear them now." "I can. On the ship-to-shore band." "But -- you don't have a radio -- do you?" "A what?" "If he has organs for detecting sound," Retief said, "why not organs for picking up short wave?" . "Why -- that's remarkable," Magnan exclaimed. "But short wave? It would be rather too much to hope that you can send as well as receive?" "Why, I suppose I could transmit via my snarfnodes -- if there were any reason to." "Retief -- we re saved! Herby -- send the following message at once: Special Priority-Z Mayday, subject unprovoked attack -- no, make that unwarranted attack -- resulting in emergency planetfall and -- " "Oh, I'msorry, Mister," Herby cut in. "I couldn't send that." "Why not?" "Why, if I did, some nose parker might come and take you away." "I sincerely hope so." "I've waited two hundred standard years for someone to talk to," Herby said in a hurt tone. "Now you're talking of rushing off. Well, I won't have it." Magnan cried. "Would you stand in the way of our rescue?" "Please calm yourself. Mister. Look at Retief. He's not making IF a scene. Just resign yourself to the fact that you'll spend the rest of your life here and we'll get on famously -- just as Renfrew and I did right up until the last few days." "The rest of our lives?" Magnan gasped. "But that's unthinkable. We may linger on for another fifty years." "Not if Slith has his way," Retief said. "Where are they now, Herby?" "I was about to say," Herby began. "They'll be arriving any -- " T he vegetable voice was drowned by a rising drone that swelled swiftly to a bellowing roar. A sleek, shark-nosed shape swept overhead, followed by another, two more, then an entire squadron. Sonic booms crashed across the jungle, laying patterns of shock ripples across the still water of the lake. Treetops whipped in the turbulent wakes as two battle fleets hurtled past at low altitude, dwindled, were gone. "You see?" Herby said a trifle breathlessly into the echoing silence. "Two's company but a crowd is altogether too much." Retief twisted the knob of the radio slung at his belt. "... pinpointed our quarry!" Slith's breath voice was keening. "If you will employ your units in encircling the south shore of the island. General, I shall close the pincer to the north." "Looks like they've spotted us," Retief said. "Slith must carry better optical and IR gear than I gave him credit for." Sunlight winked on distant craft circling back to spread out on the far side of the lake, sinking down out of sight behind the massed foliage of the forest. Other vessels were visible to left and right. "Not much point in running cross-country," Retief said thoughtfully. "They've got us surrounded." "What are we going to do?" Magnan yelped. "We can't just stand here." "Ouch!" Herby said suddenly. "Ooh! Ahh!" "What's the matter?" Magnan leaped in alarm, staring around him. "Why that hurts like anything!" Herby exclaimed indignantly. "It's the landing blasts." Retief indicated the smoke rising from points all around the compass. "The Groaci still use old-style reaction motors for atmospheric manuvering. Must be scorching Herby quite painfully." "You see what sort of uncouth ruffians they are?" Magnan said indignantly. "Now wouldn't you like to change your mind, Herby, and assist us?" "And collect a new crop of third-degree burns when your friends arrive? No, thank you. It's out of the question." A deep-toned whickering sound had started up, grew quickly louder. "A heli," Retief said. "They're not wasting any time." In the shelter of the tree the two Terrans watched the approach of the small, speedy craft. It swung out over the lake, riffling the water, and hovered two hundred feet in the air. "Attention, Terran spies!" an electronically amplified voice boomed out from it. "Surrender at once or suffer a fate unspeakable -- " "Herby -- if those barbarians get their hands on us our usefulness as conversationalists will come to an abrupt end," Magnan said urgently. "You have been warned," the PA blared. "Emerge at once empty-handed -- " "Maybe we can hide out in this dense growth," Magnan said, "if Herby will keep us apprised of their wherabouts. Maybe we can elude capture until help comes." The copter had drifted closer. "Thirty seconds," the big voice boomed. "If at the end of that time you have not submitted to Groaci justice the entire island will be engulfed in fire -- " "Cook us alive?" Magnan gasped. "They wouldn't -- " "Retief -- Mister," Herby said worriedly. "Did he mean what he seemed to mean?" . "I'm afraid so, Herby," Retief said. "But don't worry. We won't let matters proceed that far. Shall we go, Mr. Magnan?" Magnan swallowed with difficulty. "I suppose a comfortable garroting in a civilized cell is preferable to broiling alive," he said in a choked voice as they walked out from the shade into the bright orange sunlight of the beach. V ASlith whispered. "In return for your cooperation I give my reassurances that your remains will be transmitted to your loved ones suitably packaged, with a friendly note explaining that you fell foul of the alert Groacian anti-spy apparatus and were dispatched ere my personal intervention could save you from the just retribution your crimes deserved." "Why, that's very thoughtful of you. I'm sure. Grand Commander," Magnan said, mustering a ghastly smilf. "But might I suggest just one little change? Why not intervene just a bit sooner and return us safe and sound -- a stirring gesture of inter-being amity." "My researches into the Terran nature," Slith interrupted, steepling his eyes -- an effect which failed to reassure his listeners -- "indicate that your kith respond most generously to those who adhere to a policy of unswerving hostility. This evidence of Groaci IF determination will evoke, I doubt not, a sizable increase in the Terran subsidy to the Keep Groac Gray drive -- funds which will of course be quietly diverted to our urgently needed naval modernization program." "But why?" Magnan clanked his chains disconsolately. "Why can't we all just be friends?" "Alas," Slith said. "Aside from the fact that we Groaci find you Soft Ones singularly repellent to all nine senses, rendering social intercourse awkward -- and the further fact that Terran ambitions conflict with manifest Groaci destiny -- plus the fact that I owe you suitable recompense for your malicious sabotage of my mercantile efforts at Haunch Two -- aside from these matters, I say -- it's necessary at this juncture to silence you." "Silence us?" Magnan said. "Why, heavens. Commander Slith -- if you're referring to the little misunderstanding that led to our unscheduled landing here on Yudore, don't give it a thought. Why, I've already forgotten it. Actually, it was probably just pilot error on the part of my colleague, Mr. Retief -- " "He's not talking about that, Mr. Magnan," Retief aid. "He's talking about his use of Yudore as a red herring to cover an attack on the Slox Empire." "Silence, verbose one," Slith said but Okkyokk, whose image on the conference screen had been quietly occupying a complicated perch in the background, spoke up. "Who this? My fascinate! Gosh! Tell more!" "Fool." Slith leaped to his feet, vibrating his throat sac at Retief. "Your groundless insinuations deprive you of iTfe's last sweet moments." He signaled the guards. "On with the executions." "Not so hurry. Five-eyes!" Okkyokk snarled. "Conversation me, Terry; my interest, oh, yes! Tell on!" "Keep out of this, Okkyokk!" Slith snapped as the guards started forward eagerly. "My listen!" Okkyokk yelled. "Your forgot, Slith -- I guns train on you! My chat there Terry -- blow your in fragmentation, or!" "Better humor him, Slith," Retief said. "Inasmuch as your fleet consists of disguised barges with dummy guns, you're in no position to call his bluff." Slith made spluttering sounds. "No gun?" Okkyokk chortled. "Good new tonight! Tell Terry!" "Tt's quite simple," Retief said.."Slith lured you out here to get your gunboats out of the way so he could proceed to attack the Slox home planets with minimal interference. The bombardment is probably underway right now." "Lies!" Slith found his frail voice. "Okkyokk -- he seeks to set US at odds, each with the other!" "I grateful you extreme, Terry!" the Slox commander grated in a voice like a steel girder shearing, ignoring Slith's appeal. "Preparation you for dead, Groaci bigshot! Fake up big war, eh, you tell. Make fool allbody, eh? Then join force and invasion Terries, eh? Fruits and nuts! You never delusion me for every! Hold on hats, kids -- " "Don't fire. The Soft One lies -- as I can prove in most dramatic fashion -- by blasting your cancerous aggreation of derelicts into their component atoms -- " "Retief -- say something," Magnan yelped. "If they shoot -- " "Then you Soft Ones will die!" Slith piped. "If they prevail you die with my flagship -- and if I prevail -- then long shall you linger under the knives of my virtuosi!" "How you plan do so big shoot with empty gun?" Okkyokk inquired warily. "Retief!" Slith cried. "Confess to him you lied -- else will I decree torments yet uninvented to adorn your passing!" "Better open fire quickly -- if you can," Retief said. "As for you. General," he addressed the screen, "it always pays to get in the first lick." "Retief, what are you saying?" Magnan yelped. "Why goad them to this madness? No matter who wins, we lose!" "My confuse!" Okkyokk stated. "Splendor idea, shoot up unarmed Five Eyes -- but what if Terry big lying?" "Don't let him get the jump on you, Slith," Retief advised. "Gunnery Officer!" the Groaci commander piped in sudden, agonized decision. "All batteries -- open fire." The response was instantaneous. A series of hollow clicking wounds came over the intercom. They were followed by the dumfounded voice of the Gunnery officer. "Exalted one -- I regret to report -- " "Sabotage," Slith yelled. On the screen Okkyokk paused, one digital member poised above a large puce button. "How, no explosing? Gun fails operationing, just as Terry inform? Splendor!" the Slox leader waggled his ocular exterm"Now time proceedure to extermination you with leisurely! Master Gunner -- procedure blow picture window in Five Eyes flagship, give Commander Slith good viewing of eventuals!" Slith hissed and sprang for the door, where he fought for position with the guards who had reached the portal before him. Magnan covered his ears and screwed his eyes shut. "Whats?" Okkyokk's puzzled voice was coming from the screen. "Hows? Malfunctionate of firepower at times like these? My inIF tolerate! Caramba! Oh, heck!" "I suggest both you gentlemen relax." Retief raised his voice slightly over the hubbub. "No one's going to do any shooting." "So -- your spies have infiltrated my flagship," Slith said. "Little will it avail you, Retief. Once in space, my most creative efforts will be lavished on your quivering corpori." He scrabbled on the rug, came up with his command mike. "Engineer -- lift off, emergency crash procedures." "Another disappoihtment in store. I'm afraid, Slith," Retief said as no surge of acceleration followed. "Herby's particularly sensitive to rocket blasts," he explained gently. "Ergo -- no gunfire." "Herby?" Slith keened, waggling his eyes from which the jeweled shields had fallen in the tussle. "Herby?" "Herby," Okkyokk muttered. "What Herby, which?" "Herby," Magnan gasped. "But -- but -- " "Undone?" Slith whispered. "Trapped here by the treachery of the insidious Soft Ones? But briefly shall you gloat, my Retief." The Groaci jerked an elaborately ornamented gun from the plastic holster at his bony hip, took aim. "Three and out," Retief said as Slith stared in goggle-eyed paralysis at the small coral-toned flower growing from the barrel of the weapon. "Herby appreciates my conversation far too much to let you blow holes in me. Right, Herby?" "Quite so, Retief," a cricketsized voice chirped from the dainty blossom. "My departure, golly whiz!" Okkyokk's voice blasted from the screen. "Navigationer -- full fast ahead!" "No use. General," Retief said. "Everybody's grounded. Your field windings are full of vines. I'm afraid." "So that's why Renfrew couldn't leave." Magnan gulped. "I knew it all along, of course." "What does this mean?" Slith whispered. "It means you've been conquered single-handed by a population of one," Retief addressed the alien leaders. "So -- if you're ready, gentlemen. I'm sure Herby of your surrender." JTlsaid, adjusting the overlapping puce lapels of his top formal mid-morning cutaway in the giltframed mirror outside the impressive mahogany doors of the undersecretary for extraterrestrial affairs. "If we hadn't seized a moment to transmit a distress call on Slith's TX while Herby was busy taking the surrender, we might still be languishing in boredom on that dismal island." "I doubt if we'd have been bored," Relief pointed out. "With several hundred grounded sailors roaming the woods and blaming us for their troubles." "What a ghastly experience, with every bush and bough jabbering away in colloquial Slox and accentless Groaci, carrying on twelve hundred scrambled conversations at once!" "In time I think Herby would have mastered the knack of segregating his dialogues," Relief said. "Even with a slice missing from that four-mile brain the soundings showed he should be a fast learner." "He certainly mastered the technique of creative negotiation with record speed," Magnan agreed. "I can't help feeling a trifle sorry for poor Slith and Okkyokk -- their fleets consigned to moulder on the ground, the while they supply teams of conversationalists in relays in perpetuity to entertain their conqueror." Relief and Magnan turned as the elevator doors opened behind them. An orderly emerged, pushing a tea cart on which rested a handsome teak tub containing a tall, lily-like plant topped by a sixinch flower, glowing a healthy pink and yellow. "Ah, gentlemen," the blossom greeted them in a mellow tenor voice. "I'm happy to report that new scenes seem to stimulate me -- or at least this slice of me." Magnan shuddered delicately. "Imagine sprouting a bureaucrat from a wedge of frontal lobe," he said behind his hand. "It makes my head ache just to think of it. A slender man with thick spectacles thrust his head from the secretarial suite. "The secretary will see you now," he announced and held the door as the orderly wheeled the cart through. "Mr. Secretary," Magnan said grandly, "I have the honor to present his excellency the Herbaceous Ambassador." "Delighted to meet you, sir or madam," Thunderstroke rumbled, inclining his head graciously to the bloom, which nodded in reply. "Now -- do tell me all the details of how you captured two fully armed war fleets -- " Relief and Magnan withdrew, leaving the undersecretary listening attentively to his visitor's account of the sapless victory. "Lobotomy seems to agree with Herby," Magnan observed complacently. "Well, I must hurry along. Relief. I have a modest cutting I plan to infiltrate into the flower bed under the Groaci ambassador's window." He hurried off. "Tsk," said a tiny voice from the pink buttoniere adorning Reliefs topmost lapel. "The segment of me you left with the undersecretary is being regaled with a rathIF er gamy anecdote about crossfertilizing tea-rose begonias. The punch line is -- " "It's not considered polite to listen in on private conversations, Herby," Retief pointed out. "How can I help it?" the blossom protested. "After all, it's me he's talking to." "Just don't repeat what you hear. Unless," Retief added as he strolled off toward the chancery bar, "it's something you think I really ought to know."  All this is very well for a story of trickery and intrigue on a rather routine plotting level. But it has led us rather far from the early world that all the sections were emphasizing in the beginning. And the more we get away from that world of overcrowded and mad North America, the less use there is for the complex mechanism used to tell the story. Toward the end, I found the rewards far less than the effort needed. The tensions inherent in the plot are also growing less. Norman's wanderings about in Beninia illustrate the point of its peacefulness; but they are as exciting as a description of his reading a book might be. And it seems curious that here we are back to simple narrative sections to handle what Brunner's complex of other sections was apparently designed to do earlier. Donald's efforts in Yatakang depend on good luck and otherwise might be any simple spy story, except that it ends in a rather dismal failure which doesn't seem to bother, anyone except ( Continued from page #) Donald, despite the urgency of his mission. Lik'ewise the success of Norman's quest for the secret turns out to be a bit too simple and too unimpressive. I can't find any conviction that the inherent peace-creator of the Beninians would be any more contagious than the agression-creator of the rest of the world; and the aggressors far outnumber the Beninians. Too much build-up for too little a secret. Anyhow, the secret is dug out by our old friend and iconoclast, Chad C. Mulligan. As a background commentator in the early part of the book. Mulligan has been an interesting personality. But Brunner yanks him onto the stage, where he becomes no more than a capable but unimpressive addition to the staff. As an iconoclast, he was interesting; as an ikon -- a stone representation of his former self -- he is nothing. In the end the book becomes rather old-fashioned in its depiction of the future. Too much might be the background created for an overpopulated world by a man writing his story in #. There is the yammering and semisane multitude and the crowding of the city; there is the drug scene; and there are a lot of touches that are good and well done, but too little below the surface of obviousness. Pollution, as an example, might as well not exist for its effect on the story. How the incredible future society has kept its industrial level so high with such a horde of people and not suffered what runaway pollution already faces us ten years from now is unclear. Beninia seems like a quaintly unpolluted little backward country from a novel of #; and Yatakang is aggressively industrialized to support its more than # evidence of being more polluted than Indonesia now. Neither Norman nor David really does very much that we can see as evidence of growth, once they leave home (though Norman does grow earlier). They tend to adopt somewhat changed characters, but they weaken before our eyes. And the great development of Beninia and the handling of the danger of Yatakang in its world aggression are largely dismissed offhand. In the end I think the experiment has failed to justify itself. Brunner has been caught up in his mechanisms and has let things happen to his story that such an excellent craftsman as he is would not have permitted in a straighter story. It's still a novel worth reading for the promises in the earlier sections, but one which rates the.raves it has received no more than it rated the harsh and totally unjust reviews it received in some of our daily press. Farmer (Doubleday, #), is an experiment of an entirely different type. Farmer, through the many years of his contributions to our field, has been one of the boldest innovators. But there is no obvious mechanism or trickery to his book. It is told in straightforward prose and follows the course of his character's development about as directly and simply as is possible in this situation. The experiment here is simply in the honesty with which he has examined one of our hoariest and best beloved traditions. Farmer is a devoted admirer of Edgar Rice Burroughs and has even translated Tarzan into Esperanto as a labor of love, essentially. But in this novel, he has taken a critical look at what would really happen to a man brought up as our heroic apeman was. The result isn't science fiction, of course, though Doubleday labels the book as such. It's something that can only be categorized as a mixture of modern novel and adventure story. But since Farmer is a leading science-fiction writer IF and since all the works of Burroughs, including the Tarzan novels, are so much a part of most readers' backgrounds, I felt it had to be read for review. I can't fault Farmer's workmanship in this. He never belabors his point too strongly, and he does a remarkable job of accounting for most of the elements of Tyger, the man brought up to be Tarzan. Both Farmer's love of the original and his attempted honesty in this emerge victorious. Yet... Essentially, this tells of the atzan nut to prove Burroughs could have been right. The first attempt to get the kidnapped son of a minor English nobleman to be brought up by apes fails, and the child dies. The second attempt requires preparing the gorillas -- the best we can do among real apes -- to receive the child; but this results in what would surely happen -- the child grows up half animal, unable to talk, in the image of the real "wolf-boys" that have been discovered. The third attempt is more carefully staged. (The only fault with Farmer's logic seems to lie in managing to have all three boys kidnapped from the same parents!) A motley group of deformed or midget humans raises the boy, telling him they are apes (and enough different from his appearance to make him believe it). He's carefully taught to read in an old cabin, given a knife, etc. He runs across the village of black natives, all in due course. But there things begin to go agley. Instead of beating his chest and yelling Ka-Goda at them, he gets curious about girls, and then proceeds to satisfy his curiosity with almost every female of the village. Eventually, he's forced to exterminate the village in true Tarzan style, but for his own reasons. And he is driven to looking for the god or demon who rules the isolated valley. Since his growth and training had to be observed, helicopter surveys had to be conducted; and he has seen the copters all his life. Now he begins to realize something must lie behind them. Anyhow, eventually he is brought out into the great world beyond, where the papers make a fuss over him as a true "Tarzan." But his character has been shaped in ways that would hardly have made the real Tarzan of either book or screen acceptable to generations of followers. I have to admit that Farmer is probably correct in his depiction of Tyger's inevitable attitudes. Yet, as I ellipsized before, something is missing. Somehow, while the character is generally true throughout and the situation is handled better than seemed possible, there is no fascination to the book. It's interesting reading as an exercise in the writer's ingenuity and skill, but it takes on no life of its own, no feeling of interest in the basic character. Despite superb work at characterizing and developing Tyger, he sits in my mind dully and his moves do not grip me. Vm afraid this experiment in concept is inherently a failure, though one Vm glad to have read. Tarzan, as Burroughs saw him, was a fairy tale. When we open the pages of the book, the events that happen are only there to give us an excuse to wander through this part of fairyland. We have to transport ourselves there, and to see the landscape illumined by attitudes that have departed our familiar world of sixty yearsand never really were a part of the life of our daily thought, but only of our literary postures. You can't move fairyland into the real world; you have to go there in your mind, leaving our world behind. Long ago, another writer tried to be rational about what Helen of Troy really went through and it was talked about and forgotten, because it was a failure. Helen remains today the myth of human female desirability, never growing old; and Tarzan remains the myth of natural and hereditary nobility, never having license nor libido. # pin. Herald Square, New York City. Advance registration: #. For information and registration : Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York I #. the Skyline Inn, South Capitol and "Eye" Streets, S. W. Washington, D. C. #. Guest-of-honor: Will (Murray Leinster) Jenkins. For information: Jay Haldeman, # Woodbourne Avenue, Baltimore, Md. At the Skirvin Hotel, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Guests: Jim Harmon, R. A. Lafferty. Membership: #. For information: David Smith, # Mercer Street, Ponca City, Oklahoma #.  At the Carrousel Inn, #I Reading Road. Cincinnati, Ohio. Programless Relaxacon. Banquet. For information: Lou Tabakow, # St. Johns Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio #. tasy. Visiting lecturers: Samuel R. Delany, Harlan Ellison, Damon Knight, Fritz Leiber, Kate Wilhelm. Participants may register for two, four or six weeks. For information: Robin Scott Wilson, English Department, Clarion State College, Clarion, Pa.  California. Guest-of-Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest-of-Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California #I .  Chatham Center Motor Lodge, Center Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Guest-of-Honor: Harlan Ellison; GoH Emeritus: Robert Silverberg. Features: Panels, parties, movies, banquet. Membership: # in advance; # at the door. For information: Suzanne Tompkins, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #.  Memberships: Supporting, #; Atgia #.  aton Hotel, Toronto, Canada. Guestsof-Honor: Anne McCaffrey, Isaac Asimov. Membership: # in advance. For information: Peter Gill, # Glen Manor Drive, Toronto, Ontario, Caifada. AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. The accent of this con will be an international one, with fans and pros com ing from all over the world. Guest-ofTubb (England) and Dr. Herbert W. Franke (Germany). Memberships: # (supporting membership, receive all progress reports), # (attending); after December #, #, #. For information and registrasen. West Germany. Make all checks payable to Mrs. Molly Auler. ( Continued from page # are now arriving on time, although occasionally in small quantity. I hope that, when Worlds of Tomorrow reappears, it has an adequate distribution here. Thank you. Truly yours, George Beile Montreal, Canada Dear Ejler: was a disappointment though I have high hopes for it's improvement as anything by Bode has promise. The issue was unusual in that there was no story I thought was bad, they were all very good; and two stories impressed with their great depth and richmagnificent characterization was full of a warmth and humanity too many times lacking in SF. Too often writers use characters solely to explain the technology or to move the story with dialogue and action. Sturgeon is in love with his characters. Terseness in writing is supposed to Dannie Plachta wrote a story beautiful in it's verbosity. Of course Gaugham's artwork contributed heavily to the atmosphere of the story. Finally your Associate Art director is turning out some of his Hugo award winning work for you. Love and Peace, Rick Stooker Dear Sir: I finally received a Hand-Signed Reply from a publication -- Galaxy! For the last decade, any complaint to a publisher seems to have been directed again and again to a central computor which sends back formal cards having little or nothing to do with the problem. Since magazine and reader relations are a person-to-person thing, I am pleased that you have gotten away from the idea that a machine can do as good an overall job as a human in personal contacts. I speak from experiences with many publications. Evidently my key punch card has an irregular form, or the last name is too much for the typists. Practically every year, I did not receive one or more copies of IF. Writing did no good. No reply. Hope that this has changed. About your February cover -- As usual, Gaughan does a good job, but this cover belongs to "Pressure Vessel" and not to "Whipping Star" as is stated in your table of contents. Sincerely, Ed Pokropus IF-# worth adding to your library...stories you will treasure... available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F...written by the acknowledged masters of the art Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books wifi be in your   paj, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Lei Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. AU of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. #-I from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # # #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force. # pp. List Price... # DiscountPrice...# #-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and damned before it was even published, this novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # .# Discouftt Price...#J# #-#A the Planet of the Flowers, Dr. Freda Caron's fiance Paul has sent her an exquisite iridescent yellow tulip that not only has a plastic memory -- but can talk. Freda realizes that she must unlock the secrets of the flower planet and its strange hold on Paul. In this exciting new book, Freda must travel from her ultra-rational world-oftomorrow to explore the strange, unearthly flower planet. The climax of this shocking and oddly beautiful novel is bizarre and delightful. # pp. List Price... #. SO Discount Price... # #-S an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich must make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # #-S C. M. Kornbluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests. The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difticulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-#A Asimov book... America's foremost science writer, takes you on a personalized guided tour of his first # books. This, his #th book, is an anthology of works selected by the author himself. It is a journey which acquaints the reader with a writer considered to be a genius, who delights in every aspect of life and has the capacity to make any subject he writes about both understandable and entertaining. Reviewers customarily greet Asimov publications with such adjectives as ling." Opus # is no exception. # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... #. # S-# Heinlein'e Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessar sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands falls Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these two and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Distover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi# pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Oflace, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name  address I have circled. S-I S-# S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# Name Address City State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add # for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) I got sick and tired of coughing and wheezing and hacking So I quit. I quit smoking cigarettes. Which wasn't easy. I'd been a pack-a-day man for about # years. Still, I quit. And, after a while, I also quit coughing and wheezing and hacking. Now, the American Cancer Society offers every quitter an I.Q. button. To tell everyone you've got what it takes to say "I quit." And it takes plenty. I know from personal experience. I know something else. There is one thing tougher than quitting cigarettes. And that's not quitting. i american cancer society A, enen The first human born on Mars was a grok" specialist! T hat was the greatest weapon in Valentine Michael Smith's arsenal... a secret that made him irresistible to women but a bitterly hated enemy to the establishment. And all he wanted to do was, reform an immoral, troubled world by bringing it peace and tranquility. Some reform! Some revolution! But that's why Robert Heinlein's bestcoming the number one underground novel on virtually every college campus in the country. Now take it, if you wish, as one of your # introductory books for only I with trial membership. Send no money-mail coupon today! The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to take Any # Boc for only when you join and agree to accept only four books during the coming year. Out of This World You are invited to explore the breath-taking world of Science Fiction now, under this trial offer. Take any # volumes on this page worth up to # in original publishers' editions for only # with trial membership. Each month new club selections of fiction and fact are described to you in advance. Entertainment Though these volumes sell for #, # or more in original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping and handling. (You may choose an extra value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept four books during the coming year. Cancel anytime thereafter. Please accept my application for membership in the Science  Fiction Book Club and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me only #, plus shipping and I , t hv handling, for all #. Then every month, send me the Club's TriiofTTby OdysiV by AithS" Atimov: free bulletin, "Things to Come", which describes coming I Isaac Asimoy. The Clarke. S men and Long out of print, selections For each book I accept, I will pay only #, ' plus dipping and handling. Occasional extra-value selecI pJb. ed. i#t trap". Pub. ed.S#.M Kib. ed. is.M tions are priced slightly higher. I need take only four books in the coming year and may resign any time thereafter. ductory package, I may return it in # days, pay nothing, owe nothing, and my membership will be canceled. #. World's Best #. The Funco Mg. A TrcMwy of Science Fiction File, by Burt Cole. Grent Science FlcIM. By Vonnegut. Gov't computer tkm. #-volumc set. Jr., Shcckicy, Debaffled by Deva love # pages. Counts laney, Knight, Alpriestess' Pub. ed. as one book. Pub. diss, and others. S#S ed. #SS g#f.The Illnsirated Mnn.RayBradbury. l#stories."lntenscly real." N. Y. times. Now a hit movie' Pub. ed S## MS. Nova, by Samuel R. Delaney. Battle between alien worlds -- and a desperate race to the sun. Pub. ed. S#S skms. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon. Anderson, others. Pub. ed. Sg.#S ' I g#. # Congaests.  Poul Anderson. # I If under #, parent must sign here. (Offer good in U.S.A. only) I ieVpianemy.' ' cTii L oo r OO I Earth survive?... ... I Pub. ed. # #. Stand on Zan#. The Lion of aibar, by John Coasarre A Agahut Brunner. Exirapothe Fall of Night, lates today's sociLong out of print? cty into #st CenTwo works by autury. # pages, thor of #. Pub Pub. ed. # ed. # Printed in U.S.A.  Ernest Taves Larry Eisenberg Joe Haldeman Whatever happened to Scientist shattered forever the myths and barriers surrounding the unknown territory of the Human Mind. L. Ron Hubbard's Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health struck the English-speaking world like a thunderbolt. This best selling book heralded the breakthrough sought by Man for over # years, the discovery and identification of the source of psychosomatic ills, human aberration, unhappy interpersonal relationships and the technique to eradicate it! Many promises were made. Man could rid himself of all unwanted emotions, conditions and aberrations. He could attain higher states of existence and ability only dreamed about for centuries. Man could be totally free. Today, all the promises have been kept. 'Dianetics: the Modern Science of Mental Health' by L. Ron Hubbard. # pgs. # at most book stores and local Scientology Churches. Send mail orders with coupon with original book jacket. Dianetics was first announced to the public in a popular science fiction magazine in #. Without formal training or an organization, the superior technology in the first book made Dianetics tremendously popular. Informal groups mushroomed all over the country and hundreds of thousands actively applied Dianetic techniques with amazing results. Mental upset and psychosomatic ills vanished and miracles were commonplace. L. Ron Hubbard continued his research to improve the already excellent results from Dianetic technology and went far beyond. He created training methods far superior to existing systems and founded an organization to service the huge demand for the first truly workable technology of the human mind. Finally in # he completed his research on the full route to the state of Clip the coupon on the right and mail your name and address for more information sent you at no obligation. Don't delay, do it now. L. Ron Hubbard presents Scientology's July #rd, #th and #th at the west's most beautiful and modBeach California. Here is the complete story of the tremendous growth of Dianetics and its evolution into Scientology, its amazing technology and the culmination of # years of "miracles beyond belief." Plan now to attend this event. Today we have Scientology (study of knowledge) which was the inevitable result of L. Ron Hubbard's advanced research into the mind. Scientology goes beyond the mind into the realm of the human spirit. Dianetics was only part of the answer and now, with Scientology techniques, Dianetics is # workable. Dianetics takes a person up to a well and happy human being. Scientology goes beyond to higher states of existence. Scientology is far more popular than Dianetics ever was alone. Today hundreds of Scientology Centers and organizations circle the globe Scientology doubles every year. Get all the answers! Send in your name and address for more information about Modern Dianetics, Scientology and our #th Anniversary Convention. Get more exciting, vital information about Dianetics, Scientology and the Grand National Convention. Send your name and address to: Church of Scientology # South Westlake Los Angeles, Calif. # Name Address State Zip  Enclosed is # for a copy of Dianetics the Modern Science of Mental Health. n July-August I # Vol. #, No. # Issuo # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Frederik Pohl, Editor Emeritus Judy-Lynn Benjamin , Managing Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor L. C. Murphy, Circulation Director Franc L. Roggeri, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director David Gerrold and Larry Niven # short sromts George Zebrowski and Jack Dann # Arnold E. Abramson, Publii IF is published monthly by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second class postage paid at New York, N Y. and additional mailing offices. Copyright I # by Universal Publishing  Distributing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U S A. The Company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Readers write -- and wrong! recently been compared to the dung under a camel's foot and have had the curses of the Seven Blind Bastards evoked upon my head through the U.S. mails by a gentleman who objects to my enjoyment of the technicolor variety of the human kind. And this is all right. It has pertinence to the current scene. I would rather be cursed by blind bastards than be one. We're all having a hard time. But we could make it harder. The following is a good letter. It brings up the question of meanings. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Galaxy has always been one of my favorite science fiction magazines (afyou today to express my disappointment about the February issue. Actually you started out with a very good story. The Shaker Revival. Both my husband and  enjoyed reading it very much. But then we got to Dannie Plachtas The Last Night of the Festival. We thought it looked extremely interesting (something different for a change ) and started reading it with great anticipation. We stopped after about # or # pages because we did not want to waste our time reading such meaningless gibberish. I guess you call it fantasy, and  realize that it must take some talent to write this nonsense, but why not leave this kind of thing to the fantasy magazines? The other thing which irritated us in the issue was the comic strip. Heavens, I hope we wont have to put up with the kind of material boys in the sixth grade enjoy reading. I suppose it is an imitation of Playboy's comic strip, but if it is, it is a very bad imitation indeed. It lacks sophistication and the quality of paper Playboy uses. I hope you don't mind my criticism, Mr. Jakobsson. I am writing you because I care about the magazine. My husband and I have been reading it for many years and we want to continue doing so. Sincerely, Mrs. Victor Porguen Stamford, Conn. Dannie Plachta's The Last Night of the Festival is a survival story. Dannie envisioned a race of humans, survivals of mutual abuse of each other, who had evolved into creatures capable of existing only in festival atmosphere -- a happy twist on a sad scene. For me the story had significance -- and not as fantasy. Its underlying realities are around us -- as real as the camel's foot and the seven blind Bs. Here's a different view. Jakobsson: Bless you, bless you, bless you. And Jack Gaughan and Judy-Lynn Benjamin and all the other wonderful nuts behind what's happening to Galaxy and If. The stories you print and the way you print them is a credit, big and blatant and beautiful, to you all. I was a bit uneasy when I saw that Fred Pohl was going -- who in hell is (Please turn to page # ) maintain energy , enthusiasm and the will to do? Do your personality and power of accomplishment ebb and flow -- like a stream controlled by some unseen valve? Deep within you are minute organisms. From their function spring your emotions. They govern your creative ideas and moods -- yes, even your enjoyment of life. Once they were thought to be the mysterious seat of the soul -- and to be left unexplored. Now cast aside superstition and learn to direct intelligently these powers of self. Let the Rosicrucians, an age-old fraternity of thinking men and women (not a religion), point out how you my fashion life as you want it -- by making the fullest use of these little-understood ?iatural faculties which you possess. This is a challenge to make the most of your heritage as a human. Write for the Free Book, "The Mastery of Life," Address: Scribe M.S.B. San Jose, California #I # U.S.A. j Scribe: M.S.B. I San Jose, California #, U.S.A. Please send copy of booklet, I "The Mastery of Life" which I  shall read as directed. j N ame j Address j City I State Please Include Your Zip Code L I hood to own your own personal and private Stonehenge, think of the advantages. Neighborhood? All right, be the first in your state, continent, any continent. How would you like to be the sole owner and proprietor of the one and only operative Stonehenge on the face of the earth? And the operative word in this offer, friend, is operative, because this one works. Tell you what I'm going to do... My car was shot, Edie needed hers and I was in the subway, out of which I got at Harvard Square, the end of the line. It was hot and humid for almost the end of June. The subway filled with humanoid sardines hadn't helped and I'd had a day of brutal frustration in the lab. I was looking forward to my air-conditioned house, a light supper and cold drinks. I stood on the curb for a moment and decided against a taxi. The green came on and we obediently crossed over to Nini's Corner, where the familiar array of magazines caught my eye. God knew I had enough reading at home to catch up with, plus a bunch of reports in my briefcase, but Out There jumped out at me from the gaudy ranks and on impulse I bought it. I hadn't heard of it before but it had an attractive cover. Spaceships. The streets became quieter as I walked from the Square. Nice large quiet houses on Tory Row. One of them was mine and it was calling me like a beacon. The house was -- not Edie exactly. I hoped she'd had a good day -- sometimes that made a difference. The Earth had had a good day or a bad one, depending how you looked at it. I had realized in the subway that it was the twenty-first -- which meant that at #:# A.M. the sun had entered the sign of Cancer, which meant that it had been summer for about fourteen hours, which meant that I was beginning to think of New Hampshire, which meant... I entered my lovely house like a hand going into a worn and comfortable glove. "I'm home," I called out, dumping the briefcase and hanging my coat in the closet. No answer. "Edie?" I found her on the terrace out back. She was reading something, had a tall drink to hand, looked up from her book. "Hi," I said, tentatively. "Hi yourself. Everything's there." She nodded toward a table she had set up -- ice, vodka, vermouth, a lemon even. "How did today?" "He had a vicious day working with modules that wouldn't mod, circuits that wouldn't circ. Bad. You?" I dropped Out There on the table by the chair and made a marIF tini. How to make a martini work I do know. Drink it. "So-so." I sat there a moment, delaying the first sip, sat there looking at my wife. She was tiny -- five feet one. Her hair was black and her figure was hard and muscular -- but feminine as anything. Don't get me wrong. She got her muscles from her work. She was a sculptor and I knew from a number of sources that she wielded a respectable blowtorch. Her work pad was in an abandoned loft downtown. I'd been there several times and they had been bad times, as bad as when she had come to my lab in the computer center for a grudging look at what I was up to. She knew -- and cared -- as much about an electronic circuit as I did about her thing, whatever it was, and that was part of the trouble with us, maybe most of it. Plus she wasn't getting the recognition she wanted. I'd had some lucky accidents in the lab -- hence the boy-wonder crack -- but that was no fault of mine. "Well," I tried again, "how's it going? What are you working on?" "You wouldn't understand if I told you," she said and I had no answer to that. I topped up her gin and tonic, made myself another martini and leafed through my magazine. It was quiet out there on the terrace, with soft distant traffic sounds now and then letting me know I was still in Cambridge. I'd rather have been inside where it was cooler but Edie loved the terrace and garden even in midsummer. "What's that?" she asked. "Science fiction," I said. "I picked it up on the way home. Nice cover." I showed it to her and my artist wife turned up her nose. She rose. "We're having a cold supper, all right?" "Of course." "I'll bring it out. It's ready. It's good, too, lobster salad. You want another martini first?" My glass was half full. I shook my head. "For a hot-shot electronic genius," she said, leaving, "you do read the damndest crap."-'in bed. The supper had indeed been good. Edie had thought to chill a bottle of Pouilly-Fuisse and I and my house and my tiny wife were in a state of precarious harmony. We had kept the conversation out of danger areas, threading through mine fields. I had finished two stories in Out There , given them both Z?-plus, and was looking at the classified ads. "Listen to this -- do it yourself Stonehenge kit," I read. "For the man who has everything. Five hundred bucks." "You've got to be kidding." "Not so." I showed her the ad: A Dd-It-Yourself Stonehenge Kit. For the man who has everything. A faithful reproduction of the Salisbury Plain original, though somewhat smaller. Best Vermont granite. Space required: circular area # ' diameter, from which complete horizon should be visible. Limited supply, order now. # delivered (E. of Miss.). Novel Products Co., Box #, Barre, Vt. Edie sniffed. "I suppose there are one or two people in the U.S. nutty enough to be taken in by that. What nonsense. Really." "What's wrong with having your own Stonehenge?" My mine detectors were beginning to hum faintly. "I've got plenty of room for it at Round Hill. I could put it on top of the hill, matter of fact. You know what a view that is. Full horizon except for a wee bit of Monadnock -- " Edie looked at me aghast. "What have you got against it, for God's sake?" I asked. "It's sculpture, isn't it?" Those words I shouldn't have said -- I should not have said them. They detonated the first mine and that was the beginning of a chain reaction which involved a plethora of words and drinks and eventually found me at the desk in my study, writing a check for five hundred dollars. Not only that, I threw on some clothes and went to the box at the corner and dropped in the envelope, clanging the slot shut with a mighty crash. Satisfying. On my way to the cot in my study I stopped by our bedroom to tell Edie I'd ordered a Stonehenge -- but she was asleep. So next morning, coward that I was, I didn't tell her. I tried to lighten things up at breakfast but Edie was glacial. She scathingly said, "Sculpture!" once, and that was about it. I was glad I wasn't a hunk of metal awaiting her pleasure in her studio. On the subway I thought about five-hundred-dollar Stonehenges. I could see my smaller version of Salisbury Plain brooding up there on top of Round Hill -- I could see it, say, on a windy October night by the light of a waning moon. I could see it, all right, and if I could have it for five hundred I wanted it. Uneasy thoughts now in myrniind. How could Novel Products do it for five hundred? Anywhere east of the Mississippi? Miami? This Stonehenge was smaller than the original, yes, but if it needed as much space as the ad said, that would be a lot of granite. To deliver that mass to Miami would cost more than five hundred for transportation alone. I reluctantly decided I'd been had. I called the bank from the lab to stop payment on the check and got on with the business of being a boy wizard. all finished and here I am at Round Hill for the summer. Here IF we are, I should say, but Edie just now is playing tennis at the club. I'm working the hell away in my study when I hear a bashing at the kitchen door. I confront a wiry redhead in overalls, holding in his freckled hand a piece of paper. "You Thomas Gridley?" he asked. I admitted it. "Then we've come to the right place. And a good thing, too. Where you want it?" "Want what?" He jerked his head toward the parking area behind the house. I looked over his shoulder. Merciful Jesus! Two enormous flat trailers loaded with granite -- it looked wonder how soon Edie would be back from the club. "But -- I stopped the check -- I didn't pay -- " I stepped onto the porch. The redhead handed me the bill of lading or whatever that piece of paper was. It was stamped: Paid. So they'd made a mistake. So I had my Stonehenge. "It's yours, buddy. Sign here." I did. "You have the -- manual?" "In the truck. So where do we put it?" "I'll show you." Let # get out of here now... "Follow me, Art," the redhead said to the other driver. "Okay, Stan." I sat in the cab next to Stan, directed him to the road through the north field to the edge of the woods. A jeep road led through those woods to the top of Round Hill but those trailers couldn't begin to go through that. I'd have to haul those stones up myself, one by one. Some of them looked fifteen feet long or more. I wondered if my four-wheel-drive jeep pickup could handle them. "Here," I said at the edge of the woods. "As near as you can get to the road entrance but not blocking it, right?" "You're the boss." "The manual -- you have it?" He handed me a bulky pliofilm envelope. I started to walk back to the house, then stopped. Do you tip the workmen who bring you your Stonehenge? Stan was manipulating the crane on the lead trailer. I slipped him a five, another to Art, who was slinging cables around one of the stones. For a few minutes I watched Stan manipulate those imposing masses. They bore neatly inscribed numbers. I was glad of that -- it gave me a sense of security. I went back to the study then, I wanted to read that manual. I was lost in it when Edie came back. "Any calls?" she asked. "No. No -- calls." The trailers must have unloaded and gone. I'd been so deep in the manual I hadn't heard them go. As I hadn't heard them come... "What are you looking so -- silly about?" "I'm not looking silly. I'm working. How did the tennis go?" But she had already left. thinking about hauling that granite to the bald area on top of Round Hill. I kept wondering if the jeep could do the job. I skimmed all the way through the manual, knowing I'd have to read it again page by page, paragraph by paragraph. The charts and plans were elaborate. Novel Products had obviously done their homework. I went to sleep wondering from whence had come the druid in my woodpile. I was conducting a sensuous priestly rite when Edie shook me awake. She interrupted my rite, yes, and her touch held nothing of tenderness. The sun was well up; Edie was dressed. She got me somewhat awake, but I still wore ancient robes. I was not amused. It's not every night... "Will you kindly tell me what the goddam hell is that pile of rocks at the edge of the field, will you?" Megatons of stuff coming at me from that five-foot-one bundle. "You bought that goddam Stonehenge bit, right? You stupid son of a -- " "Your invective is unoriginal," I said, rubbing my eyes, my priestly robes fading. "Besides, I was dreaming. There was this priestess, see, and I was the priest and our robes were of many colors. We -- " "You silly bastard, will you listen to me for one minute -- " " -- and our robes were of many colors. You listen to me, baby, I bought it, yes, and it didn't cost one nickel, not a cent. I ordered it last June, yes, but -- " I told her about the stopped check, their mistake, my Stonehenge for free. "That's not the point, you doughhead, the point is -- " "Yes, ma'am?" "The point is I will not have the whole damn corner of the State thinking I'm the wife of the most eccentric weirdo this side of -- of -- anywhere. I won't -- " After years of living with my tiny wife and sometimes loving her, caring about her, I understood in a nanosecond why she was no good with her junkyard iron and blowtorch and I felt sorry for her, I did. In that same microslice of time I knew that what was wrong between us was irreparable. Our prognosis was -- negative. Edie left me not long after that. Round Hill had always been mine and I bought her half of the Cambridge house. She really didn't want it, didn't have the feeling for it I did. So Edie left me, left me to my house in Cambridge, to my Round Hill, to my haphazard pile of granite at the north end of the field. "It's best," she said and I agreed. Off she went -- finally no fuss beIF tween us, only the sense and fact of finality. She walked to her car and I watched that little bottom for the last time. She didn't turn round to say or wave goodbye. II or two but I knew it was good that she was gone and those granite monsters were coming on strong. The manual looked to be a good one. The charts were explicit. You ever put together a Stonehenge kit? You bet your life you haven't. Tell you how it goes. First, you do a great deal of extremely intricate measuring and surveying and, if your Stonehenge is to work, this must be done with impeccable accuracy. The outer circle of stones in mine would be, according to the plans, sixty-five feet and some inches in diameter -- and the stones comprising that circle would have to be placed within a tolerance of two inches. Then you dig holes, lots of holes in the ground, and you dig these to precise depths in precisely determined locations. In these holes you stand monoliths, each of which must end up within two inches of where it's supposed to be. And, don't forget, all the tops must be level with each other. This generates within you a feeling of profound respect for some engineers who practiced their art in England thirty-five hundred years ago. Having breezed through this you come to the hard part, which is putting the lintels atop the monoliths. I wanted to get this project off the pad by digging one hole, hauling up one stone, setting it up -- so I'd have at least the beginning of this construction to look at, enjoy. I knew I could dig the holes all right, no problem, and I didn't anticipate trouble staking the layout -- but when I cabled the first stone to the jeep and tried to drag it up the road I found I needed a crane and a big one at that. At the same time I realized I could also use some human-type help. I knew some girls -- yes, a few girls I did know -- but I didn't know any girl crane operators, not even any girls ging holes in the ground on top of Round Hill. A poverty of acquaintanceship. So I called Bill Crosby. Bill was a colleague at his wife had just left him -- and I thought he might be at loose ends. He was. "You're out of your cottonpicking mind," he said at the end of our conversation, "but I'm 'most as crazy as you are. I'll be up day after tomorrow." And he was. Bill was one of the more brilliant lights at the computer center, and I liked him. We had written a few papers together. He was gigantic -- six feet five with other dimensions to match -- that massive figure belying the intricate brain within. It seemed appropriate he should help me with my megalithic enterprise. We drove into Keene and I persuaded a construction outfit to rent me a crane capable of lifting weights up to fifteen tons. People are always moving granite around in New Hampshire. They didn't ask questions, except did I know how to operate one. I lied that I did -- I knew Bill and I could figure it out in ten minutes of trial and error -- and they said they'd deliver one in a week or ten days. Good. That night we cut stakes and the next day we drove the jeep to the plateau-like summit of the Hill. We walked about for a time like dowsers clutching apple twigs and finally I drove a stake into the ground at what seemed to me the uniquely proper focal point of the one and only Stonehenge this side of Salisbury Plain. This wasn't in the center of that lonesome space but somewhat to the southwest -- we had to leave room for the heel stone, which would be out to the northeast, more than a hundred feet outside the sarsen circle. I had a beautiful theodolite at Round Hill, a reminder of when we had built the tennis court. It was an uncanny pleasure, erotic almost, to go to work with that gleaming instrument, a compass and a glistening tape, to lay out the plan, measure the feet. The inches. We drove the last stake just before sunset the following day. In time those markers would be replaced by somber granitic masses but just the stakes, standing silently in that cryptic configuration, said something that tingled my spine. I couldn't decode it but I got a message. So did Bill. "This is going to be the hell of a place with the stones in," he said. "The stakes alone give me the willies. It's getting dark -- let's go." We did. handy and theliouse phone wasn't an instrument that could be tied into the Center, so we did our operations research verbally over a few drinks. We decided we'd dig holes until the crane came, then -- I wanted it this way and Bill went along -- we'd haul up and erect one stone. I did want that. Then we'd finish the scut work of digging the other holes and carry the remaining seventy-five stones up one by one, erecting them as we did so. I wanted to do the sarsen circle first, saving the big trilithons for last -- but if we did that we couldn't get the crane back outside when we'd finished. We decided to build two thirds of the sarsen circle, erect the trilithons within, then close it up. We could put up the heel stone any time. So we dug holes until the crane arrived. The stakes disappeared, were replaced by rectangular holes IF in the ground. I had thought this would be dull work and it was -- until we had dug enough so the configuration reappeared, now in reverse, intaglio, more impressive, the cavities suggesting in their receptiveness the upward thrust of the monoliths to come. Then came the crane -- on a thirty-two-wheel trailer. I showed where they should put it at the north end of the field. I signed a piece of paper, ignored the crane until that trailer was out of there. Then we walked round it. "You don't know how to work this, right?" Bill said, we circling the thing. "Right," I said. "But we bright boys -- we can learn, right?" "Right. Big, ain't she?" "Big. Go up the road with the boom low, though." "Right. You want to sit up there in that cab, Tom, boy and start turning things on and off, moving levers this way and that?" "Right," I said. We were, remember, masters of intricate computers and this crane was a tinkertoy. The total bank of controls and levers couldn't have represented more than a hundred bits of information, and we dealt every day climbing into the cab. "For Chrissake," Bill was howling, some five traumatic minutes later, "not that lever again, you baboon, the one on the right! I had narrowly missed decapitating him with the boom and he had taken offense. "All right, goddam, if you think you can do any better -- be my guest." I idled the deep-throated motor and clambered down to terra firma. Bill climbed up and assumed the operating position. It was a sight to see. Those massive hands fondled the controls like an organist looking for the lost chord but not pushing any keys down. "It won't play unless you give it some input," I yelled. Bill confidently thrust a lever forward. I darted out of the way in time -- just -- to avoid untimely sacrifice at the feet of caterpillar treads. Now we were both shook up. I'll skip the dialogue but let the record show that we mastered inhuman devil. Not in five or x. mutes, no, but in two or three hours. Without injury, too, except to our professional vanity, our presumed sense of the mastery of mechanisms. That came hard. The stone nearest the road entrance was number four of the sarsen circle. We cabled it, got it up there -- taking turns back-seatdriving the crane -- and erected it. When the monolith was up, standing there alone, it was a sight. All those gaping holes in the ground, one now filled -- that lonesome stone standing there on the plateau top of Round Hill, which had not seen such a thing before. Nor had we. Sobering. The theodolite said we were right on the money, within half-inch tolerance. And that was the way of that summer. There we were, two men without our women, and there were all those stones and a thing to be built and we built it. Not all of it, not that summer, but most of it. Some days we erected two of those monsters but usually just one. There were, of course, a few trips to Cambridge. I wasn't used to the absence of my tiny wife. Though her not being there brought a sense of freedom, I learned something of deprivation. In consequence I made a few trips to town despite the pull of the stones, the monument. These diversionary days came on pleasantly enough but with an underlying sense of mistaken identity and in the end I devoted the time I br r before going back to worl, Stonehenge -- almost always with Bill's help. We sweated and cursed over those stones, their meticulously determined placement. With one of us in the cab of the crane -- we'd learned to handle the beast with a certain elan -- the other at the theodolite, we spotted them to the nearest inch, mostly. Then we rammed fill around them, made a final alignment check and drove the crane down to the field to haul up the next one. Toward the end of August we'd put up more than two thirds of the sarsen circle and it was time to get to the big ones. Now, what is found within the sarsen circle of a true Stonehenge is a horseshoe of trilithons. To build a trilithon you erect two monolithic uprights and place a massive lintel on top, no other stones touching. Then the monoliths aren't monoliths any more but you've got yourself a trilithon. This awesome horseshoe has five trilithons, arranged with the open end toward the heel stone, off to the northeast. Their heights vary, ascending from the outer ends to the dominant central group. Bill helped me put up the two outer ones, plus the western one next in, before he had to leave on missions of his own. He left, I could tell, with a mixture of relief and regret. "You're still out of your nd," he said. "But so'm I. I'll vip you finish it up on weekends." We shook hands. He got into his battered Rover and drove off down the long driveway. There I was again, alone with my New Hampshire edition of Salisbury but I wanted to put the heel stone up first. It was doubly unique -- it stood off on the slope of the hill outside all the rest of it and of all the stones it was the only one not dressed. The others were finished products but the heel stone was a natural boulder. So I put it up, sweating back and forth from cab to theodolite, and then it was time to go back to IF Cambridge. The construction outfit wanted the crane back. I told the man he could have it by the end of October but not before. Cambridge, working in the lab again, teaching my two classes, living in my house by myself and always Round Hill in my mind. Every Friday I was on the road as soon as could be. By Saturday morning I was working the crane -- thanking God I'd listened to Bill and that we'd dug the holes first. The leaves were falling all over the lawns. For once I couldn't be bothered and there they stayed. What my father would have thought! But he had never built a Stonehenge. Bill helped me some weekends. But he had something going with one of the lab girls and when it came to putting up the last lintel I was alone on the summit of the now almost frightening hill. I'd wondered about the curiosity of the locals. I hadn't wanted a lot of attention -- not for the reasons which had caused my tiny wife to abandon the scene -- but because I wanted this to be a private place. If Round Hill saw almost all of the horizon, then almost all of the horizon had Round Hill in view and I wondered about that. But this corner of the State was so isolated that my B.C. edifice attracted no interest whatever, as far as I could tell. There was, after all, no near view and the horizon was a long way off. Sooner or later the hunters might discover it but up to now I and it were in a world by ourselves. It was almost dusk as I wrestled the ultimate stone into place, filling in the last gap in the lintels of the sarsen circle. Two weekends earlier I'd capped the giant uprights of the central and commanding trilithon. Now -- with great delicacy, if I may say so -- I lowered the last lintel into place, checked with the theodolite and rammed the fill home. For the last time I drove the now docile crane through the woods to the edge of the field. I walked back, then, to see this damn thing complete. I'd lived with it a long time but was only partly prepared for the impact. It was too much. I wandered about inside that place while the sun went down and the hunter's moon came up. With, besides, a barred owl sending his uninvited eight-hoot cry into the night. You ever stood in a place like that? You bet your life you haven't. Forget not, friend, this wasn't an ancient ruin -- interesting enough, and scary in its own way -- this was something else again, just off the assembly line, complete, new, comely, ready to go. The first one in thirty-five hundred years. I stayed there an hour or so before going down to the house. I left word with the construction outfit they could pick up the crane. Next day I, closed Round Hill for the winter. Ill Something had been coming up on Channel # I'd wanted to see -- something about cybernetics a colleague was doing. Mid-November, and I'd been stay-up all hours trying to catch up. So five minutes before my colleague came on I went to sleep. I dreamed it was time for the program and there I was, head on pillow, watching the screen. Then -- but weird -- the video and audio swallowed themselves into the void and there was the raster all by itself, a different voice coming from the speaker. "Thomas Gridley." No question mark, no exclamation, just Thomas Gridley -- a quiet statement of some basic fact of life, said like Emc # . "Yes," I said. "Certainly." What the hell? I was Thomas Gridley. A dream is a dream, go up and down its alleys and see where it takes you. "Yes," I said again. "Thomas Gridley," my television set said in my dream. There was no eerie glow from the tube, just the dead old raster and this voice coming from the speaker. "Thomas Gridley. You have done well." "That's good," I answered. Should I say sir, your excellency, or what? This didn't look to be a guilt dream, and I was glad of that. "Thomas Gridley." x # y # ... tone of voice like that. "The structure appears good. Excellent, perhaps. We thank you. You will be rewarded. The -- er, trial run -- will come soon." His English was like mine, almost. I understood it all right but it seemed to come from a far place. "Yes?" "Before dawn on next midsummer day you will be at the place of what you call -- Stonehenge." I'd planned to be there then, of course. Was I supposed to say something? "You will be there before the dawn of that day, Thomas Gridley. You will not forget." "Not 'arf likely," I said and, having dreamed, wakened. There was the video -- there was my colleague saying silly and obvious things about cybernetics. I turned the switch and told myself I really should get to bed earlier. It didn't do to be so sleepy I couldn't stay awake waiting for a program to come on. time. Would you believe June twenty-first? I walked around the now hairy summit of Round Hill, telling myself I wasn't, of course, there because of a witless, unbidden dream I'd had more than six months earIF Her and which I'd tried to forget. I simply wanted to see -- and truly I did -- if the sun honest-to-God would rise directly over the heel stone as I stood in the center of the sarsen circle and the horseshoe of trilithons, sighting through the entrance stones, waiting for the godhead to slice me to ribbons or bear me aloft in a chariot of strange device. Neither of those things happened but the sun did eventually appear -- just where it was supposed to. The upper limb flared into the dawn a few degrees north of the heel stone and the moment the disc cleared the horizon it stood precisely over the heel stone, dancing there in a blaze I couldn't look at. The morning was misty, dew all over everything. My feet were soaked through my sneakers and some splinter of me noted that and wished for warm dry socks, which at that moment were about a million light years away. I wasn't sliced to ribbons nor borne aloft. I was merely presented with a moment to live with the rest of my life. Something thrust me gently to the side of that exact center, and in that place appeared a -- crystal is the simplest word but how do you describe a crystal phone booth? Conjure into your head something of that size, built of glowing bluewhite slabs, yes, something you've never seen before, yet businesslike, no nonsense about it, standing there like a spacebus ready to pull out as soon as the driver can close the door. All right? From this structure, vehicle, emerged an entity who had to be, by the look of him, a Madison Avenue junior exec. Color him gray. "Thomas Gridley," he says and there's no arguing with that. You have the scene? This is the summit of Round Hill, a place I've grown up with, as have ancestors before me. By my own hand, with the help of Bill, now absent, I have here erected the second edition of Salisbury Plain and here I now stand in the presence of one whose suit might well be from Brooks Brothers but whose voice comes from a far place. "Yes," I said. "Call me -- Harry," he said, consulting a timepiece on his wrist. He approached me and we touched skins. His wasn't cold, not hot, was like yours or mine. He walked and looked around my Stonehenge, cocking his eye this way and that. I was glad I'd taken the trouble to build it right. "Yes," said Harry, "if you hadn't done it right it wouldn't have -- worked. You have done well, Thomas Gridley, and you will be rewarded. In due course." I followed him around the summit of Round Hill in that misty dawn. "It is good," Harry said. Again he consulted the instrument on his wrist. "Look," I said. "I've been surprised a few times in my life, but -- " "Yes," Harry interrupted. "Yes. But not like this. I understand. You have done your job well and are entitled to explanation -- which you shall have. But just now there isn't much time. Three more of your minutes only." "Will you kindly tell me -- " "Yes, certainly. But our time just now is limited -- most severely." Placing his accent was like throwing a dart at the Milky Way. "I must say first -- and most importantly -- that you will be at this place three of your months and one day from now." The autumnal equinox, I thought. "Right," Harry said. "I must apologize for being brusque, but our time is running out. I must very shortly -- leave." I thought about the nondream I'd had back in November. "But," I said, "you can be in touch with me whenever you want. What's the -- " "Yes, Thomas Gridley -- but that is a very -- expensive way to do it. This is better," Harry said. His inspection was apparently complete. He stood at the door of the crystal phone booth. He looked at the thing on his wrist again and I craned my gaze at it. He held it so I could see and I almost wished I hadn't been so nosy. It looked like size. "That way of contact is very difficult," Harry said. "That is why we caused you to build this -- what you would call, I think -- black box or bucket of bolts." "All right," I said. "I'll be here. But where are you from? What -- " "That will come later, Thomas Gridley. I am sorry. But I say, quickly now, you will be here on the dawn of what is your autumnal equinox and you will have at hand two surface vehicles -- station wagons -- to transport seven or eight of us from this place to other places." "But -- " Harry slipped something into my hand. "You will do it, Thomas Gridley." He stepped into the crystal, glancing again at that computer on his wrist. "Accept my apology. We owe you much and we are not an impolite people. Though we can do much, we are not omnipotent. We thank you, Thomas Gridley. We shall meet again at the appointed hour." I sensed that his crystal was about to take off. "I'll be here," I said again. "One question -- " I indicated the Stonehenge with a sweep of my hand. "How does -- " "The trilithon lintels," Harry said. "They -- focus the solar energy -- only on certain days. You will be told later. Now I -- "... and I was alone on the summit of Round Hill. The lower limb of the sun was a few degrees above the horizon and had moved southward from the point where the heel stone marked the horizon. I walked around for a while, wondering whether to tell Bill -- or anybody -- what had happened. I didn't decide then, threw the whole ball of wax up in the air, walked down the road through the woods, then through the north field and back to the house. Not until night did I remember that Harry had thrust something into my hand just before leaving. I retrieved it from my jacket pocket. It was a bundle of beat-up hundred-dollar bills. How had he arranged that? Anyway, he wanted two station wagons and was willing to pay for them. Going to sleep at Round Hill that night, thinking back to the beginning of this caper, I realized with a start but also with a sense of puzzle pieces clicking into place, that this had begun when I'd bought that copy of Out There at Nini's Corner exactly a year ago. I wondered where my tiny ex-wife was and what she was up to. It seemed I'd gone a long way from there -- from that time. nal equinox. That's ninety one days and a few hours and that's a long time to wait. I'd plenty of work to do but my heart wasn't in it. I spent too much time looking for things to do to make the time go. None of these worked, so I went back to first principles -- I studied my Stonehenge. I chipped at some of the stones, the uprights. They were good Vermont granite, no doubt about it. Recalling Harry's final words, I took a ladder up there and banged away at the trilithon lintels, all five of them. Nothing. Nothing could I chip off, that is, with geologist's pick, nor with cold chisel and the IF biggest hammer I could hold. They weren't Vermont granite, nor Vermont anything. They looked like granite but all resemblance ended there.  Fighting down a sense of sacrilege I set upon one of those lintels with a rented pneumatic hammer. Nothing. Abandoning brute force, I applied to each of those brooding stones a variety of sophisticated sensors and transducers. Nothing. I brooded some more and tried to pass the time. I bought two baby-blue station wagons," kept them in the Round Hill parking space. Even those inoffensive automobiles gave me the treatment. Who was going where in those, to do what? As all days must, those long ones ended, individually and collectively. Autumnal equinox. Night and day of equal length everywhere. Everywhere on earth, that is. A delicate arrangement, if you stop to think about it. And I stood in the center of my sarsen circle waiting for the sun to rise. The first show of the solar disc was right on schedule. It rose, of course, far south of the place where the heel stone marked the horizon. I knew there was some difference of opinion among Stonehengologists as to whether the equinoxes, as well as the solstices, were consequential -- well, I knew the sunrise horizon point at equinox was critical, as least as concerned those five center lintels -- either that or no spacebus would appear this morning. I wanted to make some observations of the sunrise horizon point in relation to those lintels but I knew there wouldn't be much time and I wanted another look at the phone booth, so I stood near the center of my trilithonic horseshoe, waiting. The sun cleared the horizon and there we were -- there it was again. I had brought the station wagons up to the edge of the field and would have felt like an idiot child tf the crystal hadn't come. Harry emerged. I stepped forward. "Thomas Gridley," he said. "Good. The vehicles?" I nodded toward the road through the wood. "Good," he said again. Behind him people -- well, presumably people, people like Harry, were emerging from the crystal. Carrying bags and all, like a bunch of conventiojoeers getting out of the airport taxi. There were nine of them, men and women, or should I say, male and female. They looked at me curiously as they emerged. Be it understood that that space was really just about phone booth size -- they couldn't all have been in there but they kept coming out. One came forward. "Thomas," said Harry. "This is Catherine." color her beautiful. Color her All-American girl and color her plain. Splash her with the Milky Way, and say she grew up in the house next to yours in Dubuque. I mumbled something. What do you say when you're introduced to Miss Universe for real? Our hands touching, her warm skin on mine. Harry glanced at the sun, at the computer on his wrist. "It is time. Catherine will tell you -- many things," and he was into the crystal just before it disappeared. Catherine disengaged her hand and confronted me with the group. She mentioned names. The eight nodded with great courtesy. "The vehicles are near," Catherine said. "Let us go." My intellectual clarity quotient wasn't exactly peaking at the moment, my computer being overloaded with input, but I had the wit to lead them to the two wagons waiting at the end of the road through the woods. I said the ignition keys were in the locks, the tanks were filled with gas and did they need anything. "Thank you, Thomas Gridley," one of the men said. He then ignored me and indicated who should get into what vehicle. They divided up into two couples in each, stowed their luggage aboard and drove off. Down that dusty road through the field they went, into the driveway facing that early morning sun, then off and away. Leaving Catherine with me. "You're not going with them," I said, achieving some kind of statement of the year. She stood at my side, Miss Universe, Miss Kansas, and agreed that it was so. "But -- what -- " "Yes, Thomas. We have much to speak of. But in the meantime. I'm hungry. We were so busy getting ready -- even though we had so much notice. We could have -- a breakfast?" Yes, we could have a breakfast and we did. I wasn't exactly scared but I was in a state. I attended to that breakfast with a care Henri Soule couldn't have faulted. My mind was filled with questions about spacegates and extraterra but -- sharing Catherine's breakfast, made with my own hand in my country kitchen -- I felt like an adolescent on his first encounter. I was no adolescent, no, and encounters and confrontations were in my history but this was something else. Questions were in my mind, all right, and probably there were some in hers -- but this was not the time. The others had gone off down the dusty driveway in the baby-blue wagons and Harry had returned to God knew where in the crystal phone booth. Catherine and I were at Round Hill alone. Would be for some time? How long? Three months? Anyway, this was not the time for questions, not that kind. This was the time to establish something IF about us, expose some images of her and me upon an unseen film that might later produce a readable picture. It took most of the day to show her around the place. She made appropriate remarks. We knew the tour was window dressing, getting to know you. I held her hand or arm now and again, going through the woods or up the Hill and each time I was twenty .years back there. IV T OP of Round Hill, now, surrounded by monoliths, lintels, trilithons, the one and only operative Stonehenge. "Catherine?" "Yes?" "You will -- the others are gone -- but you will stay with me for a while?" "Yes." "The others have a mission, missions, elsewhere? Right?" She nodded that sweet head. "Your mission is to stay with me?" She nodded again. I was slowly beginning to wonder if I was missing something here. They had been so busy getting ready to do -- what? Twinges of guilt in my mind? Questions multiplying in my head, rabbits in spring. Catherine sensed that. She asked, "Can we swim in the pond?" "Of course. Do you swim where you -- " She was off and running. At times l am indeed an idiot child, as then, when I wondered for a moment what she had in mind by way of bikini or whatever. I gave off running after her, watched her throw her clothes aside and dive into the pond, whose waters had not seen her like before. I joined her moments later. The water was cold but it was nice and we splashed around and swam and played. I went back, then, all the way through adolescence into something earlier, playing in a bathtub with a cousin of mine. I'd loved her with all of my fouror fiveyear-old heart. The water was cold but the air was warm and we lay in the grass at the side of the pond and I left that bathtub once more behind me, shot through adolescence like a skyrocket and emerged -- in due course -- into a now of unfamiliar dimensions. The dimensions were unfamiliar, yes, but they were agreeable -- and that's another some kind of statement of the year. I took Catherine that evening to a country roadside place. A nice one and she discovered she liked martinis. And Maine lobster. And there was so much to talk about that we didn't talk about anything, not anything important, not about the thousand questions in my head. We talked some, later in bed. Having been that day all the way back into a bathtub with my fiveyear-old girl cousin, thence through pubescence once more and then into the breach of a now whose parameters were as yet undetermined, it was not difficult to go back fifteen months to one of the last times I had had much to say to somebody sharing my, as they say, bed and board. Then I had asked my tiny wife what was wrong with having my own Stonehenge and that had led to the end of our attempt to maintain viable relationship. Now here I was, most improbably, with Cathy, brought here via that same Stonehenge I had discussed with my then wife -- and gone off into the night, in righteous rage, to order from Novel Products. I could still hear the clang of the mail box slot. I should have said, we talked a little, later in bed. By the time we got to talking much we were both ready for sleep. The whole thing was a dream anyway, it seemed to me. It seemed this girl by my side had been here forever but partly I knew she was from Out There -- though she couldn't be more here. And there were all those questions. "Catherine," I said. "Cathy?" "Yes, Thomas?" "You could call me Tom." "I like Thomas." "I like Cathy. Is that your real name or just for -- here?" We were drinking a nightcap. "Just for here -- but I like it." She yawned.  "We have three months?" "Yes, Thomas." She came' close. She was the girl next door I'd grown up with. "Then -- you go?" Cathy didn't answer. She looked at me, turned and snuggled her back into my lap. She said she was sleepy. "All right," I said. "Harry said you would tell me lots of things, bunches of things. Let's do just one tonight, all right?" "All right." "Where?" "Where what, Thomas?" "Tell you one thing -- a woman is a woman no matter where she's "Where are you from, Cathy? You, Harry, the others -- where's home?" "It doesn't matter," she said, stretching. I got her point but I still wanted to know. "Where?" "What you call -- the Pleiades. The third planet of -- Maia." "Oh." Silence for a time. "That's good," I said. "Why, Thomas?" "At least it's in the same galaxy." "Yes." She laughed and yawned again. "Sleep -- it is a gentle thing -- " "Beloved from pole to pole -- " Eventually we did sleep. months can be a week or a year IF -- but this quarter of a year seemed more like a day or two. I met my commitments at the lab as best I could -- which was not as difficult as might have been since Cathy had an interest and skills and understandings and ideas that made me wonder how much of her iceberg was showing. She was not an iceberg but what she showed in the lab posed a question: how much of her was beneath the surface? Once, introducing her as a visiting professor from Prague, I gave her one of my classes for a week. She was great. My students picketed for a return engagement. I let them have her for one more week, then told them the professor had been compelled to return to Prague. They booed, the unappreciative clods. We managed to sneak a week at Martinique but mostly we lived and worked in Cambridge. Cathy answered a lot of my questions. We took care of most of them in one all-night session -- after we had settled down a bit. I had intimations of guilt and irresponsibility to deal with, so I went at those first. In or with what was I cooperating? Were Cathy's people goodies or baddies? Cathy was a goody, all right, but what were those other eight doing out there? I'd sprung the catch on what Pandora's box? Was this, for example, some kind of takeover "Then what? A missionary bit -- bringing VD and Calvinism to the noble savage?" My hackles were up a bit. She laughed, soothed me in seconds with consummate skill. "We are not missionaries, Thomas. And you're not a savage, silly." "Gee, thanks." "Stop it." Then she put together a story for me. Terra was a colony, a colony known to be in some disarray, a colony that had also gone sour earlier, millennia ago, gone from reasonably high estate back to the Stone Age. I had more or less expected this but still I was put down a bit. I had always thought of Earthmen going out there, doing the colonizing. So we're a backward colony. All right. Humility is a thing commendable, yes -- but my supply was precarious. "Not only -- " Cathy put her hand on mine -- "backward but wayward," she said. That I bought without offense. That other Stonehenge -- on Salisbury Plain -- that had been, a spacegate too? Yes. Cathy didn't know the raison d'etre for that one. "That was long before my time," she said. "I'm glad this one wasn't." W HY spacegates? Direct communication between Maia Gamma and the colonies was posthing?" "No, Thomas. Oh, no. sible but it took time and was not easy. Where actual, physical space travel was not involved -- as in the electromagnetic manipulation of the vacuum tube or transistor driving the voice coil in the speaker of my radio or TV -- the problems were not beyond economic solution. But space travel itself, the long jump through the big black at a distance of (in our case) almost # light years, even with space warps and all, was costly. Hence the spacegate, hence Stonehenge. Why swim the Atlantic to say hello if you can pick up a phone and talk? I got the message. "But," I said. We were sitting up in bed. She was cuter than any-" thing. "But the five lintels, the Novel Products operation, must have -- " "Cost a lot. Yes. But now the Stonehenge is working. We can -- though only four times a year -- just walk from home to here." She blinked-those lashes at me. "And you've made it so well it will probably work for hundreds of years. So it's a bargain." "Cease and desist," I said, "from frivolity. You don't need to wave the lashes. Of course I made it well. That's the way I make -- " She pinched me and it took some time to get back on track -- but I have said this was an all-night session. The Out There magazine was a put-on, a gimmick? Yes. The only copy in existence, all arranged. So I had a collector's item. Back, then, to intimations of guilt and irresponsibility. "So what are those eight doing out there?" Not hard to explain, she said. Life on Maia Gamma had become dull. No worlds to conquer, no fun and games, no frontier. They had come to Terra looking for ideas, ways to liven things up back home. "I will be damned," I said. "What?" "Advanced mother planet comes to the boondocks looking for kicks." "Well -- yes." Simple as that. "Well, we got lots going on," I said. "Race riots, Vietnam, famine, lots of stuff. We could export some of that." "Don't be angry with me, Thomas Gridley." She hadn't called me that since we met. "It's not my fault." I wasn't angry with Cathy, I don't think, but I wasn't enthralled by the picture. "Wayward we are," I said. "Right. But mama planet is very advanced indeed and comes here looking for kicks to brighten the home scene. While lots of colonials starve, kill each other and all kinds of other things are fouled up. So why don't you spread some of the advancement around?" "You are angry," she said. "I'll make us another drink." She did. "It's been tried. We've tried it and IF you've tried it. It doesn't work. It doesn't. You know it as well as I." "What?" "Thomas. Five minutes ago you didn't want us being missionaries to the savages -- Five minutes ago. And what did your missionaries take to -- Samoa, say? VD and Calvinism, as you said." Touche , let's drop it. And I'm not mad any more." I showed her that was so. "So what do you, those eight, have in mind by way of kicks?" "I don't know -- they don't know. That's their problem, not mine. They're looking around, trying things, seeing what works. Grass, Las Vegas, acid, East Village, who knows?" "Mama planet, highly advanced, comes to the boondocks to take stuff like that back?" "It does seem silly, I know. But it's not my idea and life back home does seem dull." She looked at me thoughtfully. "I'm glad they brought ne along -- to stay with you. You're my problem." So take me back with you, I started to say, but I was a coward. To continue -- Cathy and I weren't bored -- right -- but not because of any of the kick-type things they were looking for to take home. It was because of us. We wondered about that. "I don't know," Cathy said, "maybe it's because you're from one world and I'm from another. I don't know." We soon got onto other things. "Why me, then? Why Thomas Gridley?" She didn't know that either. "But it was a good choice, the right one, wasn't it? The Stonehenge is there. You built it. Who else would have?" "If the lintels are the only functioning parts of the device -- why the sarsen circle?" "Window dressing." I began to get mad again -- until I thought of that magnificent structure standing there on top of Round Hill. I forgave them the window dressing. T HE weeks went too fast. Every time I turned around, December twenty-first was staring over my shoulder. We were something, Cathy and I -- we deserved to survive. A few days before rendezvous we were at Round Hill. There had been snow and I had put the plow onto the jeep to keep the road to Stonehenge open. We had plowed our way up and back, were having hot buttered rum in the kitchen. I've said I was a coward and that is, alas, sometimes the case -- though not always. I had been a coward in one important aspect with Cathy, though, and now it was time to summon up the blood. The matter had been implicit in many of our conversations, had been thrust somewhere into a far corner of the bed when we slept together, had hidden behind the orange juice at breakfast, behind the twist of lemon in the martini at five. In the kitchen at Round Hill I summoned up the blood. "Cathy," I said. "Yes?" I took a deep breath. "I've been thinking about this a long time and I've been afraid to bring it up. We're good for each other, right?" She nodded. "I'll make it simple. In a couple of days the spacebus comes and you go." She turned her head, looked out at the spruces and the snow. "Why can't you stay, or why can't I go with you? We should be together. We haven't talked about it but there's always been an unspoken implication or assumption that it's no go. Why?" She turned to look at me, my Miss Universe from Dubuque. "I cannot stay, Thomas. Much asl would want to." Damn it to hell. She wanted to stay and that fractured me on all fracturable planes. "Then -- " "Radiation," she said and shrugged. "Maia and Sol are similar suns but not identical. For us, three months here is about the limit. I must go back, Thomas." "Then I'll go with you. If you want me. If our radiation is too much for you, I ought to be able to take yours like a breeze." "I want you, Thomas. But it's not too much radiation -- it's the wrong kind. Little differences in the spectrum. I don't understand it. You couldn't stay on Maia either." "I could stay three months. Is your time like ours? Years, lifetime?" "Close enough," Cathy said. I made more hot buttered rum. She helped me. It was good. "Yes. You could come for three months. Not this time." My eyebrows shot up. "It would have to be arranged, approved. But next time. If you wanted to. But -- " "But what?" "It would be even more difficult then than now, wouldn't it? And now is bad enough. Unless -- " "Unless what?" I asked, not particularly liking the way my voice sounded. Cathy evaded that. We kicked our hangup around a long time, through the rum, through dinner at the nice place by the roadside, through going to bed under the electric blanket with a fire in the fireplace. We finally got to sleep. I should have stayed awake. I had a lousy dream: my feet were in concrete in some blockhouse while Cathy, radiant as heaven, got into a distant elevator and rode up the side of some gantry, story after story, toward the passenger module of a vehicle that made Saturn V look like a bottle rocket held by a kid. The liftoff woke me. Cathy was still there and I sought warmth. But I didn't go back to sleep for a long time. IF edge of the field where the station wagons would come. I carried Cathy's bag -- she was all packed and ready to go. When I walked back down to the house I would be walking by myself. The station wagons came about twenty minutes before sunrise. They unloaded a wild assortment of stuff they had to carry through the wood road to the Stonehenge. They had been to Vegas, all right. They had a one-armed bandit in their gear. But I didn't pay much attention to their cargo. I just stood there on top of the hill with Cathy. Numbness has survival value at times and numb was how I felt. Spacebus due in -- I looked at my watch, not Harry's computer but accurate enough -- four minutes. Cathy suddenly gripped my hand, released it and left my side, spoke urgently to one of the men for almost a minute. They had some kind of argument. Then the man shrugged, opened one of the bags at his feet on the snowy ground. Cathy beckoned to me. I walked over. "Take off your coat and jacket," she said. "Roll up your sleeve. Hurry." This was a Cathy I hadn't seen before. "What -- " "Now." she said. Tell you, a woman is a -- The man, whose Terran name was Fred, deftly wrapped a twentieth-century tourniquet around my upper arm and with an umpteenth-century device withdrew blood from a handy vein. No needle -- but he got the blood all right. "The pants down Thomas, quickly." I have said I was numb and she beat me to my pants. Fred applied a different device to my left testis, then socked both samples into his case and waited impatiently for the crystal booth. Doctors are the same all over too. I hitched up my trousers. "Will you kindly tell me -- " "Only one minute left, Thomas. Don't count on anything, don't. But some genetic codes can be -- modified. Some can't. Mine can't, not for the radiation. There's a chance yours can. I didn't want to talk about it. It's a long shot." Then the booth was there, Harry fussing around, making them hurry. The eight shoved their stuff through the gate and Cathy had to go. "I'll let you know," she said. histoire I'd tell you what I was going to do. Time now to redeem that pledge. All right. I'm going to go, that's what I'm going to do. I'm wandering around on top of Round Hill, waiting, and I won't be waiting long. Spring equinox, days and nights equal all over the (Please turn to page #) There are those who don't want you to know. Read this story -- and you're a potential threat! residency at Piltdown Hospital was relatively uneventful. I had come there with some trepidation, for Piltdown had won the reputation hands down of being the most overcrowded mental institution in England. But the liberal use of the new tranquilizing drugs had quieted many of the most difficult patients and allowed others to be treated on an outpatient basis. I had been hired personally by the director and owner of the hospital, Dr. Czento. My first interview was conducted on a rather friendly basis and he seemed impressed with my credentials. "I am a wealthy man," he said at the end of the interview. "I am without children and near kin. I have my eye out for someone who might take over when I retire' I smiled at this broad but gracious hint and I must admit that I did not take it too seriously. I picked up my letters of recommendation to return to my carrying case and accidentally knocked a fat portfolio off the desk of Dr. Czento. We both leaned forward to retrieve it and collided. "I am sorry," I muttered, somev what embarrassed at my clumsiness. Then I became aware that I had nicked my forehead on the corner of a pin in his lapel. It was a beautifully formed white kid in a stylized wheat field of bright yellow enamel. "You're bleeding' said Dr. Czento and despite my protests he insisted on cleaning the wound and covering it with a small bandaid. "What a handsome pin you have," I said. "Is it an emblem of a psychiatric society?" Dr. Czento's face took on an air of pride. "Not quite," he said. "It's the insignia of a fairly distinguished group, the Tammuz Society. We dabble in real estate." Before I left his office he had made me a firm offer and I accepted it. I went back to London and packed my bags, disposed of my flat and furniture and drove out to Piltdown in my battered Triomphe Six. It had been agreed that I would undergo a kind of post-training analysis at the hands of Dr. Czento. The daily hour spent free-associating on his worn leather couch was fruitful but tedious and I would come away thoroughly exhausted. I liked his sense of humor and his direct manner, although I found him sometimes erratic, even unpredictable. Once I recounted a hideous dream in which I found myself in bed with Adolf Hitler. Dr. Czento tugged at his short goatee and then muttered quietly, "Politics makes for strange bedfellows." He urged me to visit about the hospital and become familiar with each of the patients and I set about the task quite methodically. Some were odd, some frightening, some quite pathetic but Stanley Pendleton was unique. I had heard of him long before I visited his room. He was the eccentric scion of a middle-class merchant family prominent in fine leather goods and claimed fluency in ten languages, including Sumerian. Although he wasn't going to be my patient, I planned my visit with great care. I went to the files to examine his folder and, to my surprise, it wasn't there. The office secretary was no help and I reported the matter to Dr. Czento. He shook his head and shrugged. "The clerk misfiled it," he said wryly. "You'll manage without the folder."... I thought this answer was most peculiar but I didn't feel free to say so. I went directly to the second floor and knocked at Pendleton's door, waiting until the soft spoken, "Please come in," floated through the door. ton's room I was overwhelmed by the profusion of things covering the walls and the clutter of manuscripts and mechanical objects on, under and around his bed. Pendleton himself, a redhaired fellow with freckled complexion, waved me in with good humor. IF I was quite nervous at first and pulled my pipe out of my breast pocket to give play to my hands. Pendleton smiled and his eyes moved for just a single moment to the sign high up on the north wall which forbade smoking. I stuffed the pipe back into my pocket. And then, for the first time, I noticed a most extraordinary piece of apparatus. In that curiously aware manner of his, Pendleton followed my gaze without seeming to. "It is intriguing, isn't it?" he said. He reached over and disentangled it from the surrounding clutter and handed it to me. I'm not much good with mechanical systems but even I could tell that it was a fantastically ingenious construction. "What on earth is it?" "An orrery," said Pendleton proudly. "One that I made myself. If you turn this handle here, each of these little fellows -- which represent different planets -- moves about the sun at the proper relative speed. The scale of sizes isn't correct but the distances and phases of orbits are. And I've left out the satellites. Otherwise it's quite accurate." "Beautifully made," I said. "It must have taken you months to do." "Two years," said Pendleton. I had been counting the little planetary balls and there were ten. I wondered if it would be harmful to point out this error to Pendleton. And then I decided in the interest of honesty, I ought to. "You've one planet too many," I said. Pendleton's smile died. "So you've noticed it, have you? Our great modern astronomers have no real notion of the origin of Ceres and the other two thousand asteroids between Mars and Jupiter. But I know." I became somewhat tense. Clearly I had uncovered one of Pendleton's fixations and I had no desire at this first visit to push the matter. "I'm sure you do," I said. Pendleton seemed to grow very angry with me. His eyes flamed and the veins of his neck became distended. "For God's sake, man," he snapped, "don't humor me. You don't believe a bit of it and you damned well know it. But I have unimpeachable sources that give firm proof of what I'm saying." His brow furrowed. "I oughtn't tell you," he muttered to himself. "I've tried to tell Czento and he thinks I'm delusional and won't listen. Still, I suppose one ought not to give up trying even if it touches on the elements of my supposed psychosis." I assumed my most benign expression. "I'll honor your trust, of course," I said. He took the orrery out of my hands and placed it back on the floor. A dleton, "I received an urgent summons to the oil-soaked kingdom of Nahrum in the Middle East. It seemed that the Sheikh of Nahrum had come upon a clay tablet in early Sumerian which he wanted me to decipher and translate. As you may have heard, I am the world's foremost expert in Sumerian. "I arrived in short order, not anticipating a stay of more than a few weeks. I was given the most lavish suite in the Sheikh's own palace, was washed and scented by a bevy of lovely women and brought to the Throne Room. The Sheikh himself was a small man with intense black eyes and a large curved nose that was the pride of his people. He told me that he was the direct descendant of Tammuz and related the prehistory of his peoples. It was clear that he took great delight in the milennia-old culture of Nahrum." "Did you say Tammuz?" I asked. He seemed annoyed at the interruption. "An ancient divinity of the region," he said. I decided not to pursue the point. "After a while," Pendleton resumed his account, "the Sheikh got down to business. 'One of my people, a shepherd by trade,' said the Sheikh, 'came across the cave in the mountains to the north of Wadi-El-Zur. As you know, our climate is extremely dry and acts as an excellent preservative.' " 'Sounds a good deal like the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls,' I said warily. " 'That may be,' said the Sheikh quietly. 'But I have reason to believe that this tablet antedates the Scrolls by a thousand years.' "I was skeptical, of course. And yet these words fired my imagination. The Sheikh clapped his hands and a large glass case was brought in by four servants who staggered under the load. At once my heart began to pound like a triphammer. The tablet was made of an unusual clay -- like nothing I had seen before. But most exciting were the blocks of cuneiform letters. If the writing was Sumerian -- it was a variety unknown to the world. " 'What do you think of my tablet?' asked the Sheikh, pleased at my reaction. " 'It's fascinating. But I have to examine it more closely before I can make accurate comments.' " 'Certainly,' said the Sheikh. 'For the time being, the tablet is yours. I will be forced, of course, to post additional guards about your person but only as a precaution against the accidental loss of the tablet.' " 'I shan't be offended,' I said. "The Sheikh ran his fingers IF through his thick black beard. " 'If you can correctly translate the contents of this tablet,' he said, 'I am prepared to pay you the sum of five thousand British pounds.' "It was a princely offer and I was taken aback but I made no comment. I took the tablet to my room and set about translating it. With all due modesty I must admit that the language itself was the least of my troubles. It seemed at first to be a precursor of one ofthe five known Sumerian dialects, although I now think it was not. Within four or five weeks I had worked it out almost in its entirety. But interpreting the contents was most baffling. "At first it seemed that I had a scientific treatise on my hands, one concerned with astronomical matters of extraordinary sophistication. Although I knew the basic sciences, I was badly equipped for this material. I began painstakingly to work through the translation -- believe me, I had the devil's own job working on the physics. "I spent most of each evening and part of the night translating. In five months' time the work was complete and I read my translation to the Sheikh. He seemed afinoyed and downright skeptical of what I told him. There were references to the astronomical observatory of Bahkrar, the legendary capital of Nahrum, which is now just a dirty pastoral village. Apparently the most careful and detailed astronomical observations were carried out there -- all, of course, with the naked eye. "I notice," said Pendleton, "that you're fighting to suppress a look of disbelief and I really don't blame you. It does sound like a made-up tale. But now comes the really startling part. It seems that the astronomers made their observations roughly one thousand years before the birth of Christ. They were terribly concerned because of perturbations taking place in the planetary orbits, not to mention those of the moon. There were also violent tidal fluctuations that could not be explained. And yet, coincident with these strange effects, it was noticed that the fifth planet had begun to dim, as if it were growing smaller with time. "There were also references to the Lord of Life and Death and his dominion over all the heavens. The Sheikh seemed to grow increasingly annoyed with me and then, to my intense surprise, he had a second tablet brought out. The Sumerian was the same but the clay seemed less ancient. I studied this new material and found that the style had changed. There was a description of how the fifth planet was being removed from the skies and replaced with an enormously dense spheroid of the proper mass, orbital velocity, angular momentum and other physical properties." At this point Pendleton suddenly broke off his narration. "What happened next?" I asked encouragingly. doesn't matter. I had some difficulty with the next sections and the Sheikh flew into a rage. His dark skin turned white as the sands surrounding his palace. He muttered something about Tammuz, then jumped to his feet and shouted that I was an idiot, incompetent at translating Sumerian and that he would not give me a single penny, let alone my promised five thousand pounds." "Normally I'm the mildest of men," said Pendleton. "But this insulting, callous behavior inflamed me. I struck the Sheikh right across his enormous nose, breaking it and staining his ceremonial robes with wine-dark blood. It was lese-majeste and I knew that I was in the soup as soon as I'd done the deed. I was in danger of execution -- perhaps with luck, a long prison term. Fortunately the Foreign Service intervened. The British government took me into custody after persuasion convinced the Sheikh that I should be transferred to Piltdown Hospital." "But why Piltdown? Why a mental hospital?" Pendleton smiled soberly. "There was no other course, I was told. The Sheikh couldn't tolerate being struck without severe reprisal unless I was legally insane. Ergo, I was forced to accept the fiction of insanity. I was devilishly unhappy at first and kicked up quite a row. But Fve been treated with a fair degree of freedom here and promised that I'd be released in two years. March thirtieth of the coming year is my departure date." I must admit that the entire narrative had been delivered with such plausibility that almost anyone could have been taken in. I say almost because one of the cardinal phenomena in paranoia is the air of complete truth that often surrounds the tale. Nevertheless I felt impelled to ask one more question. "Did you suggest any sort of explanation of who or what might be removing the fifth planet to the Sheikh?" ' For the first time that afternoon Pendleton fell silent. He sat there quietly, the criss-crossed shadows of the window blinds slanting across his chest. For a long time he seemed uncertain of what to say. "I did offer a theory," said Pendleton at last. "And since that time I've read and observed carefully right here at the hospital -- and I'm fully convinced that my earlier conjectures were correct. But I'm afraid of antagonizing them again. Who knows what they would do to me?" They IF A shiver of realization coursed up my spine, a sensation I had experienced before only during my childhood. The thread had begun to unravel as, in fact, it always does in situations of this sort. "Come on," I said firmly. "Whom are you talking about? Surely you're perfectly safe here at Piltdown?" "Am I?" He smoothed the folds in his checkered robe. "At any rate. I've nothing more to say." It was clear that the dialogue was over and although I had another question or two to ask, I withdrew. I was in a state of high excitement, almost turmoil. I went at once to Dr. Czento's office to see if we might discuss the Pendleton story. I was elated to find that he was available to me. As I detailed my visit to Pendleton and the story of the two tablets, Dr. Czento's lips twitched almost as though he were on the verge of a smile. And yet, paradoxically, I sensed a fierce inner tension within him. Then I noticed that he was not wearing his Tammuz pin. "Perhaps I ought to write out my evaluation of the visit with Pendleton," I said, "so that you can read it at your leisure." "No," said Dr. Czento firmly. "I do not wish a written report." "Pendleton says that he's to be released on March thirtieth, next." Dr. Czento shook his head. "I have talked to Pendleton many times. He is severely paranoid, delusional. In short he's as mad as they come with a severe and unpredictable temper. Perhaps he will be released. His family is wealthy, influential. If they insist on getting him released on their own responsibility there's nothing I can do." "I suppose not," I said. I realized from the way Dr. Czento bent over his papers that he wanted me to leave. during the days that followed But I couldn't fully concentrate on what I was doing. Mr. Turner, an elderly, senile country squire with a bulbous nose and pronounced anti-Semitic tendencies loved to browse through .the psychiatric literature. He gave me a nasty turn one day when he suggested that Jews were prone to hebephrenia. I was able to weather that remark but I still couldn't get my mind off Pendleton and his orrery. Our library was rich in popular scientific works and I selected one on modern astronomy. The chapter on the origin of the solar system was amusing because I noted that many authorities conjectured that Ceres and her sister asteroids were fragments of what had once been a fifth planet. How simple if that were the basis of Pendleton's obsession. Later, during my morning sessions with Dr. Czento, I found myself alluding now and then to the orrery. Dr. Czento, to my surprise, was suddenly hard put to throttle his anger. "I must say," he began testily, "that you are showing an obsessive interest in this case. I suggest that you drop it at once. I believe that in some subtle way, you are actually using it as a form of unconscious resistance to me by identifying yourself with this patient." And I was shocked at how nearly right he was. But what in Dr. Czento was I resisting? Dr. Czento was in London, attending an International Psychiatric Congress and it occurred to me that perhaps the time was ripe to end my preoccupation with Pendleton. If only I could pursue my questioning a bit further. I tussled a while with the ethics of the matter. And then I decided to hell with them. I found Pendleton in his room, the clutter considerably reduced. "I'm getting ready to leave, you see," he told me, his face aglow with pleasure. "I'm very happy for you," I said soberly. "I haven't forgotten our conversation and I wish you had completed your story for me." "But I did," said Pendleton warily. "Not really. You never did tell me how your fifth planet came to be in its current fragmented state." Pendleton looked at me directly as though he wanted to peer into and beyond my eyes. "Can I really trust you?" I exploded. "Good God -- if you can't trust a British psychiatrist, whom can you trust?" He smiled wryly. "I wish you were right," he said. you. But I'm afraid it might do you more harm than good." "I'll chance it." He shrugged. "I believe that whoever was removing the fifth planet bungled the job. The result was the fragmenting we now see in the heavens. I daresay there were other terrible effects here on Earth -- earthquakes, perhaps a flood." "Why were you afraid to tell me this?" He bent over and picked up his orrery, cranking its handle and sending the ten little balls about his model sun. "There are those who don't want you to know," he said. "And now, whether you like it or not, you're no longer a spectator. You're a potential threat. I don't know why. I can't really tell you what it's all about. But if in a tiny recess of your mind you believe my story -- take care." It was finally clear to me that I had really played the fool. Perhaps, as Dr. Czento had suggested, IF my involvement was psychiatric defiance. The story was bizarre but classical in its veiled hints of villains and threats. I blushed for shame, just thinking about my gullibility. gala modern art festival was held at Piltdown. Many unusual paintings and bizarre sculptures, some fashioned by patients, were exhibited. Dr. Czento, who personally supervised the entire affair, had an artist flown in from Paris. He created the most amazing painting by firing real bullets into bladders of paint that were suspended over a canvas. The piece de resistance was a wonderful machine, aglitter with shining gears and motor-driven axe blades, which was set into motion by pushing a button and thereupon proceeded to demolish itself in a grinding clatter of metal in the acrid smoke of short-circuited wires. Dr. Czento clapped his hands with delight. I looked about for Pendleton but, reclusive as ever, he hadn't even bothered to come to the show. The following day Pendleton was found dead in his room. There was no sign of violence and, indeed, it seemed to be a clear case heart failure. Dr. Czento himself signed the papers certifying cause of death. Pendleton's father came out to get the body. He was a tall, lean man, looking a good deal like his son. His eyes were swollen when he stopped by to see me. "My son wrote about you. He thought you were a good sort. He wanted you to have this if anything happened to him." He thrust the orrery into my hands. I was at a loss for something appropriate to say. "I liked your son," I finally managed. "He was a good lad," said Mr. Pendleton. "We were planning on taking him home shortly. How long it would last we couldn't tell. As you probably know, he has been in mental institutions many times before." "Yes, I know," I lied. But I hadn't known and I wondered why Dr. Czento hadn't told me. Dr. Czento accompanied Mr. Pendleton to the railroad station. I walked about the grounds, carrying the orrery with me but unable to look at it. Then, on some mad whim, I decided toget my hands on Pendleton's file. I went to Dr' Czento's secretary and told her that, before leaving for the station, he had asked me to look at Pendleton's case history. She seemed genuinely preplexed. "But I don't know where that file is," she said. "I believe that Dr. Czento keeps it locked up in his office. You'll simply have to wait until he returns." I couldn't. At lunch time, when she had left the office, I opened Dr. Czento's door with a flat plastic pocket calendar. The drawn blinds and the musty odor of stale cigar smoke lent a rather otherworldly character to the room but I shook off my apprehensions and went poking about. The door lock had been simple but the desk drawers were beyond my amateur burglar skills. There was an elegant walnut cabinet between the picture windows. I walked over to it and, without much hope, slipped my calendar between the doors. There was a faint click and the doors fell open. But all I saw was an exquisite set of wine glasses and a decanter three quarters full with what looked and smelled like tawny port. I had lifted the stopper and the bouquet made my mouth water. As I started to replace the stopper I thought I heard a noise outside the office and the decanter shot out of my agitated hands, falling to the carpet. My luck was mixed. The decanter was unbroken but the carpet was stained and all of the port was gone. I went to the door and peered out but saw no one. I hastily went to Dr. Czento's desk, gathered up facial tissues and sponged up as much of the mess as I could. What followed had nightmarish aspects. I knew that within moments either Dr. Czento or his secretary might return. I ran to my room, dug out my own prize bottle of tawny port and raced back to Dr. Czento's office. I poured the port back into the decanter up to what seemed the right level, moved a waste basket over the sticky residue on the carpet, closed the cabinet and just avoided running into the secretary. T HE afternoon went badly. I could focus on nothing. I had botched things in the most clumsy manner and had still learned nothing about Pendleton's background. The next morning I tried to get out of my analytic session but Dr. Czento would have none of it. I lay uncomfortably on the didactic couch, unable to say a word. After several moments Dr. Czento spoke to me. "Are you still thinking of Pendleton?" he asked softly. "I am," I admitted and then everything burst out of me. I told iiim of my last meeting with Pendleton, the remarks of Pendleton's father and the suspicions that had been aroused in my mind by Pendleton's death. But I couldn't bring myself to tell him how I had searched his office. Dr. Czento sighed. He got up and walked to one of his windows and looked out through a small opening in the blinds. Then he turned around and looked at me. "Get up off the couch," he said. "No more therapy today." "I'm concerned about you," he said as I came forward to take a seat beside his desk. "I've begun to think of you as my eventual sucIF cessor. Your flair for this field is undeniable. But you've become obsessive about poor Pendleton." "His death shocked me terribly," I said. "Besides, there was a persuasive quality to his delusions." "Nonsense," said Dr. Czento. "Pendleton was as psychotic as they come. His father told you how often he has been in hospitals. Besides, you've only to look at his files." He reached down and unlocked one of his desk drawers, withdrawing a folder. He selected a sheaf of documents and pushed them toward me. I went through each one carefully. "You see what his previous medical history was?" said Dr. Czento. "He was constantly in and out of psychotic episodes. He had two years at Roundtree, three at Five Crossings and so on." "Yes," I said. "It's all here. But might I look at the rest of his folder?" "You still have doubts?" Dr. Czento sighed and passed the folder to me. Then he stood up, walked to his cabinet and inserted a small silver key in the lock. I was terrified that he would discover what had happened but he didn't appear to notice the faint dark patch on the rug. When the doors swung open he removed the decanter and two glasses. "Come, have some of my port," he said and it was clear that he earnestly wanted my friendship. I reached forward and took the glass of golden wine. It went down like the delight I knew it was. "Marvelous stuff, isn't it?" said Dr. Czento. As yet he hadn't sipped from his own glass and I held my breath. "Go ahead," he said. "Read the rest of Pendleton's folder." He refilled my glass. I drank and read on through the numerous sheets. One was an official piece of stationery of the Kingdom of Nahrum. Dr. Czento saw me stiffen. "There's no contradiction," he said, "in noting that a man was mad and still agreeing that he might stumble on a kernel of truth." He withdrew his wallet and carefully fished out the enameled pin with the white kid. "You asked me once about the Tammuz Society," he said. "Do you know anything about it?" "I don't know about the society," I said. "But I have read about Tammuz. He was a Sumerian god of agriculture and flocks, wasn't he?" Dr. Czento chuckled. "You might put it that way. I tend to see him as the first divinity of real estate." I read on in the folder. There was a detailed official account of Pendleton's visit to Nahrum. "Then Pendleton did do a translation for the Sheikh," I muttered. "After a fashion," said Dr. Czento. "Pendleton was not really an expert in Sumerian. He was rather spotty in his knowledge despite his pretense to the contrary. Only his father's intervention kept him in Eton. I grant you, the Sheikh did lie to him. He knew what was on the first tablet and was only testing Pendleton's skill at translating Sumerian. When Pendleton botched the job he became justifiably outraged. Being unstable, Pendleton did hit the Shiekh and break his royal nose." his elegant, slim Havana cigars and cut away the tip. He lit up and sent clouds of aromatic smoke in my direction. "The Sheikh," he said, "considers himself an actual descendant of the god Tammuz and the first tablet contains his title to all of the heavenly bodies as well as the account Pendleton mentioned. The second tablet told how the fifth planet was accidentally destroyed by extraterrestrial bunglers." "What a lot of nonsense," I said. Dr. Czento's smile died away. "Not at all," he said. "At the end of the second tablet was a statement giving permission to this same extraterrestrial group, the Sentients, to dismantle Mars. The agreement is made with the Tammuz Society of which the Sheikh is a director. But he violated his trust, just to find out whether he was getting his proper share of the gold." "Gold?" "Mars is rich in gold," said Dr. Czento. "The metal itself is not useful and any advanced society would much rather have the radioactive ores in which it abounds. If those who hold title to Mars allow a second party to remove said ores, provided they deliver the gold as payment, who could blame them?" "Ridiculous," I said. "How could men claim to own a planet?" "Is it less ridiculous for men to claim ownership of a mountain?" said Dr. Czento. I shook my head. "Is anything wrong?" asked Dr. Czento. He did not wait for an answer but went on. "The Sentients botched the job some three thousand yearsago. They lost their finest scientists and most advanced spaceships when the fifth planet disintegrated. They gave up their exploration in our Solar system and went elsewhere. But now they've exhausted other sources and have been forced to come back for another try. Fortunately their technology is vastly improved and when Mars is replaced, bit by bit, with an ultradense core of inert material, there is little danger of mishap." "How did the Sentients contact your society?" "Reports of space vehicles land( Please turn to page #) IF Live fast and you live forever. But what do you do with the time? fifty chance every time you go out. That makes it one chance in eight that you'll live to see your third furlough -- the one I'm on now. Somehow the odds don't keep people from trying to join. Even though not one in a thousand gets through the years of training and examination there's no shortage of cannon fodder. And that's what we are. The most expensive, best trained cannon fodder in the history of warfare. Human history, anyhow -- who can speak for the enemy? I don't even call them snails any more. And the thought of them doesn't trigger that instant flash of revulsion, hate, kill-fever -- the psyconditioning wore off years ago and they didn't renew it. They've stopped doing it to new recruits -- no percentage in berserkers. I was a wild one the first couple of trips, though. Strange world I've come back to. Gets stranger every time, of course. Even sitting here in a bogus twenty-first-century bar, where everyone speaks Basic and there's real wood on the walls and peaceful holograms instead of plugins and music made by men. But it leaks through. I don't pay by card, let alone by coin. The credit register monitors my alpha waves and communicates with the bank every time I order a drink. And, in case I've become addicted to more modern vices, there's a feelie matrix -- (modified to look like an old-fashioned visiphone booth) -- where I can have my brain stimulated directly. Thanks but no thanks -- always get this picture of dirty hands inside my skull, kneading, rubbing. Like when you get too close to the enemy and they open a hole in your mind and you go spinning down and down and never reach the bottom till you die. I almost got too close last time. connaissance patrol, bound for a hellish little planet circling the red giant Antares. Now red giant stars don't form planets in the natural course of things, so we had ignored Antares. We control most of the space around it, so why waste time in idle exploration? But the enemy had detected this little planet -- God knows how -- and about ten years after they landed there we monitored their presence -- gravity waves from the ships' braking -- and my team was assigned the reconnaissance. Three men against many enemy. But we weren't supposed to fight if we could help it -- just take a look around, record what we saw and leave a message beacon on our way back, about a light-year out from Antares. Theoretically the troopship following us by a month will pick up the information and use it to put together a battle plan. Actually, three more recon patrols precede the troopship at oneweek intervals; insurance against the high probability that any one patrol will be caught and destroyed. As the first team in, we had a pretty good chance of success but the ones to follow would be in trouble if we didn't get back out. We'd be past caring, of course. The enemy doesn't take prisoners. IF We came out of lightspeed close to Antares, so the bulk of the star would mask our braking disturbance, and inserted the ship in a hyperbolic orbit that would get us to the planet -- Anomaly, we were calling it -- in about twenty hours. "Anomaly must be tropical over most of its surface." Fred Sykes, nominally the navigator, was talking to himself and at the two of us while he analyzed the observational date rolling out of the ship's computer. "No axial tilt to speak of. Looks like they've got a big outpost near the equator, lots of electromagnetic noise there. Figures -- the goddamn snails like it hot. We requisitioned hot weather gear, didn't we, Pancho?" Pancho, that's me. "No, Fred, all we got is parkas and snowshoes." My full name is Francis Jesus Mario Juan-Jose Hugo uw Naranja and I outrank Fred, so he should at least call me Francisco. But I've never pressed the point. Pancho it is. Fred looked up from his Figures and the rookie, Paul Spiegel, almost dropped the pistol he was cleaning. "But why -- " Paul was staring. "We knew the planet was probably earthlike if the enemy wanted it. Are we gonna have to go tromping around in spacesuits?" "No, Paul, our esteemed leader and supply clerk is being sarcastic again." Fred turned back to his computer. "Explain, Pancho." "No, that's all right." Paul reddened a bit and also went back to his job. "I remember you complaining about having to take the standard survival issue." "Well, I was right then and I'm doubly right now. We've got parkas back there -- and snowshoes and a complete terranorm environment recirculator -- and everything else we could possibly need to walk around irr comfort on every planet known to man -- Dios That issue masses over a metric ton, more than a bevawatt laser. A laser we could use but crampons and pith helmets and elephant guns -- " Paul looked up again. "Elephant guns?" He was kind of a freak about weapons. "Yeah." "That's a gun that shoots ele#ts?" ht. An elephant gun shoots cicpnants." "Is that some new kind of ammunition?" I sighed, I really sighed. You'd think I'd get used to this after twelve years -- or four hundred -- in the service. "No, kid, elephants were animals, big gray wrinkled animals with horns. You used an elephant gun to shoot at them. "When I was a kid in Rioplex, back in the twenty-first, we had an elephant in the zoo -- used to go down in the summer and feed him synthos through the bars. He had a long nose like a fat tail." "What planet were they from?" It was Paul's first trip out and he hadn't yet gotten used to the idea that most of his compatriots were genuine antiques, preserved by the natural process of relativity. At lightspeed you age imperceptibly, while the universe's calendar adds a year for every lightyear you travel. Seems like cheating. But it catches up with you eventually. We hit the atmosphere of Anomaly at an oblique angle and came in passive, like a natural meteor, until we got to a position where we were reasonably safe from detection -- (just above the south polar sea) -- then blasted briefly to slow down and splash. Then we spent a few hours in slow fligh  sea level, sneaking up on th tlement. It appeared to be the only enemy camp on the whole planet, which was typical. Strange for a spacefaring, aggressive race to be so uncurious about planetary environments but they always seemed to settle in one place and simply expand radially. And they do expand -- their reproduction rate makes rabbits look sick. Starting from one colony they can fill a world in two hundred years. After that they control their population by infantiphage and stellar migration. We landed about a hundred kilometers from the edge of their colony, around local midnight. While we were outside, setting up the espionage monitors. The ship camouflaged itself to match the surrounding jungle optically, thermally, magnetically and so forth -- we were careful not to get too far from the ship; it can be a bit hard to find even when you know where to look. The monitors were to be fed information from flea-sized flying robots, each with a special purpose, and it would take several hours for them to wing into the city. We posted a one-man guard, one-hour shifts; the other two inside the ship until the monitors started clicking. Bat they never started. Being senior, I took the first atch. A spooky hour, the jungle ving ,dark little noises all around -- but nothing happened. Fred stood the next hour, while I put on the deepsleep helmet. Figured I'd need the sleep -- once data started coming in, I'd have to be alert for about forty hours. We could all sleep for a week once we got off Anomaly and hit lightspeed. Getting yanked out of deepsleep is like an ice-water douche to the brain. The black nothing dissolved and there was Fred a foot away from my face, yelling my name over and over. As soon as he saw my eyes open he ran for the open lock, priming his laser on the way IF (definitely against regulations, could hole the hull that way -- I started to say something but couldn't form the words). Anyhow, what were we doing in free fall? And how could Fred run across the deck like that while we were in free fall? Then my mind started coming back into focus and I could analyze the sinking, spinning sensation -- not free-fall vertigo at all but what we used to call snail-fever. The enemy was very near. Crackling combat sounds drifted in from outdoors. sort everything out and get going. After long seconds my arms and legs got the idea. I struggled up and staggered to the weapons cabinet. Both the lasers were gone and the only heavy weapon left was a grenade launcher. I lifted it from the rack and made my way to the lock. Had I been thinking straight I would've just sealed the lock and blasted -- the presence in my mind was so strong that I should have known there were too many enemy, too close, for us to stand and fight. But no one can think while his brain is being curdl'ed that way. I fought the urge just to let go and fall down that hole in my mind and slid along the wall to the airlock. By the time I got there my teeth were chattering uncontrollably and my face was wet with tears. Looking out, I saw a smoldering gray lump that must have been Paul. Fred was screaming like a madman, fanning the laser on full over a #-degree arc. There couldn't have been anything alive in front of him -- the jungle was a lurid curtain of fire -- but a bolt lanced in from behind and Fred dissolved in a pink spray of blood and flesh. I saw them then, moving fast for snails, shambling in over thick brush toward the ship. Through the swirling fog in my brain I realized that all they could see was the light pouring through the open lock and me silhouetted in front. I tried to raise the launcher but couldn't -- there were too many, less than a hundred meters away, and the inky whirlpool in my mind just got bigger and bigger and I could feel myself slipping into it. The first bolt missed me, hit the ship and it shuddered, ringing like a huge cathedral bell. The second one didn't miss. It took off my left hand just above the wrist, roasting what remained of my left arm. In a spastic lurch I jerked up the launcher and yanked the trigger, holding it down while dozens of microton grenades popped out and danced their blinding way up to and across the enemy's ragged line. Dazzled, blind, I stepped back and stumbled over the med-robot, which had smelled blood and was eager to do its duty. On top of the machine was a switch that some clown had labeled Emergency Exit. I slapped it and as the lock clanged shut the atomic engines muttered -- growled -- screamed into life and a ten-gravity hand slid me across the blood-slick deck and slammed me back against the rear-wall padding. I felt ribs crack and something in my neck snapped. As the world squeezed away I knew I was a dead man but it was better to die in a bed of pain than to just fall and fall. ministrations of the med-robot, who had bound the stump of my left arm and was wrapping my chest in plastiseal. My body from forehead to shins ached from radiation bums, earned by facing the grenades' bursts. The nonexistent hand seemed to writhe in painful, impossible contortions. But numbing anaesthetic kept the pain at a bearable distance and there was an empty space in my mind where the snail-fever had been. A gentle hum told me we were at lightspeed -- things could have been one flaming hell of a lot worse. Fred and Paul were gone but that just moved them from the small roster of live friends to the long list of dead ones. A warning light on the control panel was blinking stroboscopically. We were getting near the hole -- excuse me, "relativistic discontinuity -- " and the computer had to know where I wanted to go. You go in one hole at lightspeed and you'll come out of some other hole. Which hole you pop out of depends on your angle of approach. Since they say that only about one per cent of the holes are charted -- if you go in at any old angle you're likely to wind up in Podunk, on the other side of the galaxy, with no ticket back. I just let the light blink, though. If it doesn't get any response from the crew the ship programs itself automatically to go to Heaven, the hospital world, which was fine with me. They cure what ails you and then set you loose with a compatible soldier of the opposite sex, for an extended vacation on that beautiful world. Someone once told me that there were over a hundred worlds named Hell -- but there's only one Heaven. Clean and pretty from the tropical seas to the subpolar pine forests. Like Earth, before we strangled it. A bell had been ringing all the time I'd been conscious, but I didn't notice it until it stopped. That meant the information capsule had been jettisoned, for what little it was worth. Planetary information, very few espionagetype data; just a tape for the battle. Be rough for the next recon patrol. I fell asleep knowing I'd wake up on the other side of the hole, bound for Heaven. F fashioned old-fashioned -- with my new left hand. The glass should feel right, slick but slightly tacky with the cold-water sweat, fine ridges molded into the plastic. But there's something missing, hard to describe, a memory stored in your fingertips that a new growth has to learn all over again. It's a strange feeling but in a way it seems to fit with this crazy Earth, where I sit in my alcoholic time capsule and, if I squint with my mind, can almost believe I'm back in the twenty-first. I pay for the nostalgia -- wood and natural food, human bartender and waitress who are also linguists, it all comes dear -- but I can afford it if anyone can. Compound interest, of course. Over four centuries have passed on Earth since I first went off to the war and my salary's been deposited at the Chase-Manhattan Credit Union ever since. They're glad to do it -- when I die they keep the interest and the principal reverts to the government. Heirs? I had one illegitimate son -- conceived on my first furlough -- and when I last saw his gravestone, the words on it had washed away to barely legible dimples. But I'm still a young man. At lightspeed you age imperceptibly while the universe winds down outside and the time you spend going from hole to hole is almost incalculably small. I've spent most of the past half-millennium at lightspeed, the rest of the time usually convalescing from battle. My records show that I've logged a trifle under one year in actual combat. Not bad for # years' pay. Since I first lifted off I've aged twelve years by my biological calendar. Complicated, isn't it -- next month I'll be thirty, # years after my date of birth. But one week before my birthday, I've got to decide whether to try my luck for the fourth trip out, or just collect my money and retire. No choice, really. I've got to go back. It's something they didn't emphasize when I joined up, back in # -- maybe it wasn't so obvious back then, the war only decades old -- but they can't hide it nowadays. Too many old vets wandering around like animated museum pieces. I could cash in my chips and live in luxury for another hundred years. But it would get mighty lonely. Can't talk to anybody on Earth but other vets and people who've gone to the trouble to learn Basic. Everyone in space speaks Basic. You can't lift off until you've become fluent. Otherwise, how could you take orders from a fellow who should have been food for worms centuries before your grandfather was born? Especially since language melted down into one Language. I'm tone-deaf. Can't speak or understand Language, where one word has ten or fifteen different meanings, depending on pitch. To me it sounds like puppydogs yapping. Same words over and over -- no sense. Of course, when I first lived on Earth there were all sorts of languages, not just one Language. I spoke Spanish -- still do when I can find some other old codger who remembers -- and learned English -- that was before they called it Basic -- in military training. Learned it damn well, too. If I wasn't tone-deaf I'd crack Language and maybe I'd settle down. so strange and it's not just the Language. Mindplugs and homosex and voluntary suicide. Walking around with nothing on but paint and powder'. We had Fullerdomes when I was a kid -- but you didn't have to live under one. Now if you take a walk out in the country for a breath of fresh air, you'll drop dead before you can exhale. My mind keeps dragging me back to Heaven. I'd retire in a minute if I could spend my remaining century there. Can't, of course -- only soldiers allowed in space. And the only way a soldier gets to Heaven is the hard way. I've been there three times -- once more and I'll set a record. That's motivation of a sort, I suppose. Also, in the unlikely event that I should live another five years, I'll get a commission and a desk job if I live through my term as a field officer. Doesn't happen too often -- but there aren't too many desk jobs that people can handle better than cyborgs. That's another alternative. If my body gets too garbaged for regeneration and they can save enough of my brain, I could spend the rest of eternity hooked up to a computer, as a cyborg. The only one I've ever talked to seemed to be happy. I once had an African partner, named N'gai. He taught me how to play O'wari, a game older than manoply or even chess. We sat in this very bar -- or the identical one that was in its place two hundred years ago -- and he tried to impress on my non-Zenoriented mind just how significant this game was to men in our position. You start out with forty-eight smooth little pebbles, four in each one of the twelve depressions that make up the game board. Then you take turns, scooping the pebbles out of one hole and distributing them one-at-a-time in holes to the left. If you dropped your last pebble in a hole where your opponent had only one or two, why, you got to take those pebbles off the board. Sounds exciting, doesn't it? But N'gai sat there in a cloud of ( Please turn to page # ) IF land-going, esthetic, competent, free and female -- more than less! tant," Oyster said. He had retracted almost entirely into his shell for an executive snooze but the ubiquitous translators picked up his watery mumble and spewed it out full-volume in English. already come to that conclusion. He sat behind a towering mound of paperwork, unable properly to attend to his duties as Assistant Director of the School of Prosthodontics, Galactic University of Dentistry. In fact, he could not always remember his official title correctly, with so much else cluttering his mind. At any moment he could be shot off on some simple assignment that invariably turned out to be murderously complex in detail. He felt edgy. Actually, no paper was involved. But computerized busywork and multilingual red tape amounted to the same thing. Every tiny plastic card of the thousands on his desk represented some problem of some student that he had to rectify in some manner. Yes, he needed help on the interminable details of his office. He had had no assistant since leaving Earth so precipitously and unexpectedly and he had never fully adapted to that lack. He wished he could take a midsession snooze, as Oyster was doing now. Oyster was the Director of the School of Prosthodontics, a posiassume -- if he didn't first suffer an intellectual breakdown. Oyster's assistant was Miss Tarantula, a marvel of arachnid efficiency. In the office or the operatory, at the University or in the field, her eight arms seemed to tie up every loose thread before it appeared. It was because of her that Oyster's alized jealously that if he had an assistant even half as competent his own desk would soon be relieved of its burden. Yet she tended to make him nervous, despite his efforts to repress his Earthly prejudices. She was not really a man-sized spider. Oyster poked an antenna out of his shell. "Set up a series of interviews for a prospective assistant," he said to her. "Land-going, esthetic, competent, 'unattached, female -- " "The first is waiting in the anteroom," Miss Tarantula said. That was the way she was -- anticipainterview her now -- " "But there's no point in merely tested. "I have field assignments as well as office routine. I have to know how she functions in a variety of situations, particularly under stress. If -- " "Naturally," Miss Tarantula said. "You are scheduled to make a promotional tour of planet Hobgoblin today. She will accompany you on a trial basis." IF "But that's not a stress situation. A routine visit -- " "The director also wishes you to investigate certain complaints of a sensitive nature." son for his edginess. Debating points with Miss Tarantula was futile. The slightest twitch of her hairy front leg brought the web tight. And Oyster was no slouch at making things routinely impossible -- he seemed to feel that this was good practice for the Directorship. Certain complaints of a sensitive nature? That meant that half a misstep could result in a lynching. Well, he thought, glancing at the tremendous metal man standing immobile in the corner, a lynching was the last thing he had to fear. This huge robot, the Jann, would blast apart anything like that. Literally. The Jann's meticulous guardianship was not entirely ham's new life. If there were trouble on Hobgoblin, all that would suffer would be the troublemakers. reputation and that of the University. The very reputations his tour was supposed to enhance. He felt a headache coming on. "All right. Brief her and -- " "All taken care of, Doctor," Miss Tarantula said. Naturally. It was not that she hardly concerned with bipedal mammals -- it was that her boss had made a directive and she was being efficient. The door opened. A grotesque mound of warty blubber slid into the office. It drifted to rest before A black orifice gaped. "So pleased to meet you. Doctor D," the translator said. "I am Miss Porkfat, your trial-basis assistant." Esthetic , competent, female... by the standards of her own species Miss Porkfat was all of these. And he could not afford to question any of it, lest he betray an unUniversity prejudice of taste. "Very good, Miss P," he said. "Please arrange passage for three to Planet Hobgoblin and notify the authorities there of our itinerary." "Three, Doctor?" Her voice, audible just beneath the translation, was pleasantly modulated, at least. "Three. The Jann will be coming along." stalk. The orb focused on the shining robot. A quiver started there and traveled down her body before it damped out. "Yes, Doctor." She oozed over to a private-line translator, asked for interplanetary and began making the arrangements. thought as Oyster woke and smiled benignly from inside his shell. The Jann robots were supposed to have become extinct several thousand years ago but their terrible reputation lingered on in galactic folklore. Miss Porkfat had excellent presence if her only reaction to the sight of a functioning Jann was one eyeball-quiver. But still she reminded him of infected slug-meat. T HE Hobgoblins were surly creatures -- short, big-headed, flat-footed, ugly by humanoid standards. "What's that Jann doing here?" the customs official demanded in a whine that even the translator caught. "We don't allow sentient robots on our planet." "He has to travel with me," Dillingham said. The truth was too complicated to explain. The official gestured to the guards. "Put this tin in the cooler." The squat troopers advanced on ham saw trouble coming but was powerless to circumvent it. The Jann was as deadly a sentient as the galaxy had ever known and for fifty years. To do that, he had to stay close. Evidently the inhabitants of this planet had little respect for past reputations or they would never have gone near the Jann. The uniformed goblins took hold of the Jann's arms. They were barely able to reach up that far and looked like squat children beside a stern parent. They tugged. That was all. The Jann did not budge or take overt note of them. Fortunately. having completed their business at customs, left. The Jann followed, nonchalantly dragging along the two guards. After a while they let goham sighed with relief that the robot had not lost his metal temper. The Hobgoblin office of Dentistry was imposing enough, externally. But inside the fine large building were distressingly backward facilities. This planet still used mechanical drills, X-rays and needle-injected anesthetics. A harried goblin technician galloped up. "What do you want? We don't allow visitors in here. Particularly aliens." "This is the representative from the University of Dentistry," Miss Porkfat said dulcetly. The nearest translator was down the hall a distance, so conversation was remote. "On a promotional tour. Your office was informed." "I don't need any offworld tub of lard to tell me of what we've been informed. Come back next week. We're busy now." ham, her eyestalk quivering again. IF "They prefer that we return next week, Doctor.D." Something about the exchange rankled. "I heard, Miss P. But this was cleared with the authorities before we arrived and my schedule does not permit a postponement." "It will have to be today," she informed the technician. "Go fry your posterior." "I really think -- " ham said, his ire rising. He was not a temperamental man but his position did not allow him to tolerate much insolence. Miss Porkfat was being gentle when she should have been firm. "You don't have confidence in me," she protested, beginning to quiver all over. "It isn't that, Miss P -- " "Why should he, blubbertub?" the goblin demanded. "I'm only trying to -- " she began, turning pink. On her, this was impressive. diplomatically. "But in this case -- " " Will you creeps get out of here?" the ugly face. Miss Porkfat began to dissolve. Literally. "I think this position is unsuitsaid with as much compassion as he was able to muster in the circumstance: "If you wish to return to the University and seek an oncampus placement -- " She sucked herself together somewhat. "Thank you, Doctor D." "Good riddance, stinky," the goblin said. him, though privately he suspected that the goblin was right. This was no job for an assistant who melted in the face of conflict with abrasive personalities. "Watch where you're going, stupid," the goblin yelled. "I said no visitors. I'll clobber you -- " Jann, silent until now, boomed into animation. "None but I shall do him die -- forty-nine years, five months, thirteen days hence, Earthtime," it proclaimed. By the time the words ceased reverberating the goblin was gone, thoroughly cowed. A non-native was waiting in the next alcove. Willowy, sweet-smelling, with a cluster of slender blue tentacles and four soft purple eyes -- quite esthetic, in a surrealistic way. by the University to assist you on a trial basis. I am Miss Anemone." So Miss Tarantula had anticipated his problem with Miss Porkfat. Such comprehension was frightening. "Very good," he said. Then, thinking ahead: "This is a Jann. He's traveling with us." "I observed him. A handsome specimen. I hadn't been aware they made robots of that caliber anymore." No loss of control there! Dillingham glanced down the hall. "And approaching us is another native technician." The Hobgoblin wore a badge of rank that distinguished him as an entity of moderate authority. "No visitors permitted. Leave at once." Miss Anemone braced him squarely. "This is the Assistant Director of the University School of -- " "Don't waste my time with your ridiculous apologies," the goblin said brusquely. "Just get out." "If you will check our approved itinerary -- " "One side, sea-spook." The goblin shouldered by her, intent on "Ouch!" "Oh dear me, I'm so sorry," she said solicitously. "Did my spines hurt you? I hope you will report to the infirmary right away. I certainly wouldn't want the toxin to get into your system." She led the way on down the hall while the goblin rushed off, rubbing his shoulder. So far, so. good. Miss Anemone was not unduly sensitive to abuse or helpless before it. They arrived at the main demonstration room. Here the wonders of modern Hobgoblian dentistry were displayed -- quaint metal restorations, classic plastic dentures, primitive color X-ray them politely, then approached the goblin in charge and began his presentation. "I believe the University can enhance aspects of your procedure -- " "Who asked it to?" tion the several tourists who had complained to the University. That was the sensitive part of his tour. The described symptoms had been vague and diverse, so that no consistent pattern had developed and no complainer had actually reported for a University recheck. Thus there' was no solid evidence that Hobgoblian dentistry was at fault -- just a statistical suspicion. The kind of thing that had to be investigated unobtrusively, for planet Hobgoblin was sensitive about alien criticism. "Perhaps a demonstration of technique -- " he suggested. "Oh, so the marvelous University desk jockey wishes to show the outworld peons how to practice -- " might take a look at some of your problem patients. Naturally, if I can demonstrate the advantages of University training -- " "Training, schmaining! If we IF had your finances we could afford a multi-species dontic analyzer, too, and have instant diagnosis of every -- " "You are correct in your implication that the analyzer is one of our more important diagnostic tools. But since it is far too expensive for the average facility we stress the raw ability of the individual dentist using local equipment. It is the talent that remains after the -- " But the goblin did not let him repeat the maxim he had learned so forcefully from Oyster. "You claim you can use my equipment -- and do a better job than I can?" Since courtesy did not seem to ham abandoned it. Unwisely. "Yes. And so could any University graduate." The goblin swelled with rage -- then made an unholy smile. "You're on, Doc." sconced in a model unit set up on a stage in an amphitheater. Miss Anemone had a desk a few paces away and the Jann had a separate booth where he could watch for structing the view of the audience. Goblin spectators, every one a trained dentist, filled the hall. had bargained for, and he made a mental note never again to speak precipitously. Meanwhile he had to follow through. Somehow things always did become complicated. He was almost getting used to it. "The prosthodontic genius from Galactic U will now demonstrate how to handle a problem case," the dental chief announced grandly. "Pay close attention, so you can learn how stupid you are." Almost every grotesque little face mirrored the chiefs resentment. No doubt of it -- University ham could, in fact, be eased out of the very University position he was in training for. The goblins were striking, not at him but at his career -- a blow the Jann would not foil. All because of one intemperate remark. The first patient mounted the stage -- a vaguely equine quadruped with colorful, birdlike plumage. Miss Anemone intercepted it. "May I have your name and planet of origin, please?" "Horsefeathers of Clovenhoof," the creature neighed, showing tremendous yellow teeth. "Please describe your complaint." "My teeth hurt." A murmur of nasty appreciation rose from the audience. Hobgoblin's finest practitioners were that every one of them had had this problem -- the unspecific response. Miss Anemone, of course, would not let it stand at that. She would question the patient gently but firmly, clarifying and isolating his symptoms until she had a fair notion of his real complaint. A major part of the duties of a galactic dental assistant was to get the facts straight before the patient ever saw the dentist, thereby promoting office efficiency. you now," she said. A chorous of chuckles and a few hoots came from the audience. They knew she had goofed and he could not afford to correct her now. To do so would only make matters worse. He would have to question the patient himself -- and make sure never to get into such a situation again with an unfamiliar assistant. The fault probably was not hers. Some dentists preferred to handle virtually everything themselves and some assistants were trained to honor the practice. Probably she would have questioned the patient further had he asked her to do so. to break in an assistant in all the little ways that were sure to turn up. Miss Anemone would not do. Horsefeathers ambled over and bestrode the dental chair, opening his long large mouth. His breath was not sweet. "Can you localize the area of beginning a routine check with the probe. "Huh?" "Where does it hurt?" "They all hurt. It changes," Horsefeathers said. Another appreciative goblin that they had thrown him a chronic complainer -- one who would object no matter how well off his teeth were. "I see you have had extensive prosthodontic restoration," Dillingham observed. Indeed, the mouth was a mass of gold. "Huh?" "Lot of work done on you." "Yes. All right here on Hobgoblin. Lousy job." Silence from the gallery. Dillingham suppressed a smile. "On the contrary. My visual inspectiofi suggests that this work is quite competent. However, I shall take X-rays to be sure there is no underlying problem." He tapped a tooth, finding it firm. "Miss Anemone -- " Another evil gallery chuckle. He looked up. Miss Anemone was gone. A man-sized centipede occupied her desk. "I am Miss Thousandlegs, your new assistant. Miss Anemone was called away." In the middle of a demonstration? Miss Tarantula was becoming too efficient. How had she known? IF that the Jann was gone. The booth was empty and there was no familiar glint of robot metal. But he was sure the huge creature was in the vicinity -- and would be for the next forty-nine-plus years. All he said was: "Please take a full set of X-rays on this patient." Miss Thousandlegs rippled over, elevated her forepart and positioned machine and plates. She was good at it, he had to admit, considering that she had probably only had experience with such equipment in some class on Antique Apparatus. In a moment she had the pictures. He almost gaped. "Root canal therapy on every tooth -- " "They were pretty far gone," Horsefeathers admitted. They must have been. Root canal therapy was only called for when the central nerve of the tooth became contaminated. Then this nerve had to be removed and silver or guttapercha or some galactic equivalent substituted, so that no further decay could occur. The process was an expensive one but it generally saved the tooth. The tooth was insensitive thereafter, of course -- without its nerve it could not feel temperature, pressure or pain. "I see no evidence of decay," rays carefully. "They .still hurt," Horsefeathers said stoutly. With no nerves at all, they hurt. knowing the dentists of Hobgoblin were enjoying this hugely. "Do you wish me to check the occlusion?" Miss Thousandlegs inquired. Bless her! "By all means." She brought a wax plate and had the patient bite down on it so that his teeth imprinted the material in a horseshoe pattern, above and below. She studied this. "Serious malocclusion, Doctor," she announced. lence around him that the goblins had forgotten to make this test -- just as he himself had almost forgotten in his preoccupation with the impression he was making. Miss Thousandlegs had saved him. It was beginning to look as though he had found his assistant. "This will not hurt," he told Horsefeathers as he prepared his rotary unit. "In fact, I will not have to use any anesthetic. I am merely going to grind down some of the surfaces a little. To adjust the occlusion, so that your teeth will meet properly when you bite." "But it doesn't hurt where I bite! It hurts deep inside!" assured him. "You see, when the occlusion is imperfect -- when your teeth meet unevenly -- unatural stress is placed on certain sections of the jaw. While this effect is too small for you to notice ordinarily, it continues to irritate the peridontal membrane -- the lining surrounding the roots of your teeth -- crushing and bruising it. This lining is tough, for it is there to cushion the impact of constant chewing -- but under abnormal stress it eventually becomes inflamed. And then you hurt -- deep inside." Horsefeathers gazed at him in wonder. "I never knew that." "Perhaps your dentist did not feel this was necessary for you to "Many patients are not interested in such technical details." Until they hurt, he thought wrylyThe silence of the hall as he worked suggested that his point had been made. It was always best to let the patient know as much as feasible about his condition. An ignorant patient could be a difficult one. Horsefeathers had not been an idle complainer -- he had really had pain, though the cause was subtle and slow to develop. He finished and flushed the polished surfaces. "Expectorate, please." "Huh?" "Spit." The translator was being too literal, rendering a complex word in English into a complex equivalent in Clovenhoofian. He would have to tone down his language. "It will be a while before the inflammation subsides," he warned Horsefeathers. "But there should be a steady improvement now -- until you feel no pain at all." The patient looked dubious. "It'll still hurt?" "The membrane has to heal. When you break a leg you don't expect it to be good as new the moment the vet sets it, do you?" Horsefeathers thought about that. He looked at his leg. He smiled. "Thank you, thank you, Doctor," he said at last. "I'm so glad you came here." He trotted off, limping a little before remembering that it was his mouth that hurt. A nother patient mounted the stage. This was a native Hobmeant trouble. He had counted his dental chickens too soon. "May I have your name, sir?" Miss Thousandlegs inquired. "Go fly a kite." thought. "How do you spell that, please?" the time. Spelling via translator was devious and suspect but she had fielded the insult nicely. "G-O," the goblin spelled. "FL-Y. The A is an initial for Algernon. Last name is K-l-T-E." not to jump to conclusions. "And what is your problem?" IF Miss Thousandlegs inquired. "This tooth -- it squishes. Sometimes." "May I look at it?" "You're not the dentist, bugface." "Nevertheless, I may be able to narrow down the possibilities and trouble." Grudgingly he let her look. "Another restoration," she murmured. "Tooth appears to be healthy." "It's not healthy, stupid. It squishes. Sometimes." "Could you show me?" G.F.A. Kite bit down, almost nipping several of her hair-fine legs. "Nope. It's not squishing right now. But it does. Sometimes." "I'll take an X-ray," she said. She did. "When do I see the damn dentist?" "In just a moment. Let me check your occlusion first." She checked. "You may see him now." She accompanied the patient to "X-ray shows' nothing but the tooth is mobile," she said. "The occlusion is slightly off." Kite made a face. "I heard that about Horsefeathers. But mine is only one tooth and it doesn't hurt, it squishes. Sometimes." "Nevertheless, occlusion seems the likely culprit," Miss Thousandlegs said. "Two plus two equals four." felt she was going too far. She was not merely getting the facts -- she was diagnosing and advising the patient, normally the dentist's prerogative. He checked the tdbth. They were similar to human dentures and most had been restored metallically. All were solid, including the squisher, except for that trace mobility his assistant had noted. He inspected the X-ray photograph. She was correct there too: the only shadows in the picture conformed to the restorative work present. It had to be the occlusion again. He made the necessary adjustments. But one thing nagged him -- the occlusion was only marginally skew. Presuming that this condition had developed only recently, the described symptom was too sharp, too localized. Two plus two might equal four -- but so did one plus three. And the goblin audience was suspiciously silent. He took the probe and checked around the tooth again. It remained firm and the gum line was stable. He looked at the X-ray once more. The metal of the restoration shadowed it, one projection extending along the distal surface adjacent to the next tooth. No trouble there. Two plus two... Interesting coincidence that the Hobgoblin chief should send him two occlusion problems in a row. He would have expected something more devious. between the two teeth, verifying that the : metal of each restoration touched there. The space was narrow; there was no way he could reach it except by forcing the wire point down, causing the patient momentary discomfort. Kite yelped. The probe broke through into something soft. He had found the trouble -- a thin cavity just under the metal, concealed from direct view by its location and the overhanging restoration. Its shadow in the X-ray was hidden by the configuration of metal itself. Truly an invisible deterioration -- that squished. Sometimes. Miss Thousandlegs had almost led him astray by her too-ready diagnosis. Had he corrected the occlusion and sent the patient home the decay could have continued for months. Two plus two did equal four. But that was not the whole truth -- and the goblin dental chief must have known it -- setting the University representative up with a valid occlusion case first. Then the seeming occlusion -- a trap. Miss Thousandlegs brought the loaded needle. He injected the flinching patient. It had been so long since he had used anything this primitive that he had forgotten to apply a surface anesthetic before giving the shot -- and his assitant hadn't reminded him. Not her fault. She simply was not familiar with his procedures, his little lapses. He readied the drill. "Vacuum," he said. Miss Thousandlegs applied the vacuum, sucking the saliva and moisture from the water-cooled drill. "Other side," he murmured, as her instrument obstructed his view. He began cutting away the overhang of the tooth. He finished and removed the drill. "Mallet," he said, picking up the chisel. She held it up but his hand missed contact. The mallet bounced off his fingers and fell to the floor. The goblins guffawed. Again -- not her fault, he reminded himself. She was not adjusted to his movements. But the accident was embarrassing. He knocked off the metal crown, exposing the decay. He fished for the gold chunk before the patient could choke on it -- and banged into one of his assistant's insectlike arms. She had been reaching for it too. IF sandlegs was competent and cooperative -- but it just wasn't working out. He could not operate effectively with her. "M iss -- " he started. And blinked. Miss Thousandlegs was gone. She had been replaced by a humanoid biped. tance sleight-of-hand. Miss Tarantula might enjoy tugging on interplanetary thread and changing his assistants in mid operation but he did not. "Vacuum," he said abruptly, taking up the drill again. Assistant number four, the biped, applied the vacuum. Her arms terminated in quintuple, jointed digits that pinched together to hold the tube. He had seen more effective appendages for this work but at least she did not get in his way or obstruct his vision. He finished his excavation. "Hydrocolloid," he snapped. She already had the metal form and cold water ready for the hydrocolloid impression. He made the cast without difficulty and she took it away. He put a temporary covering over the tooth. "A new restoration will have to be made," he told Kite. "I have prepared the tooth and taken an impression but it will be some time before the restoration is ready. Your local prosthodontists are perfectly capable of doing it and I commend you to their services. You were quite correct about your problem and fortunately we have diagnosed it in time to save the tooth." "Doctor," the new assistant said. "What?" He was tired, and there was something strange about the way she spoke. "Will you check the other restorations now?" "The other -- " He paused. "You're right. A good restoration does not go wrong without cause. I'll have to have a look." It was a dismal prospect but he could not risk the same kind of oversight the local dentists had made. He hammered off the adjacent cap. It came off easily -- too easily. He scraped at the exposed cement. "Soft," he muttered. "No wonder there was trouble." The goblin chief was about to be snared in his own prosthodontic trap. The assistant took the gold cap ham hammered at the next restoration. This one was stiffer but finally came off. The binding cement was similarly soft. "Brother!" he muttered. "They must all be defective. The cement is deteriorating. Real trouble coming up." "Now just a moment," a voice objected. It was the chief dentist of ( Please turn to page # ) In mind-to-mind communication among men, honesty can be the worst policy! better. But he had been workson who would appreciate at once ing for so long away from the sothe significance of what he had aerial mainstream of the world that complished. His name was Stehis sense of values had become phen Thorpe. He was a poet and -- confused. And when he had conin this devious and unquiet age -- eluded his momentous work he and an old and trusted friend. He could not bring himself to call upon a representative of a government he had long since ceased to believe in and he was loath to deal directly with the popular press which had so maligned his activities over the last decade. But the desire to share his discovery with someone was overpowering. He had lived so long in his solitary tower waiting for this moment and now that it had arrived it cried out for a witness. Perhaps one of the more tolerant of his former colleagues might have condescended to visit him and -- in his own time -- watched him demonstrate his miraculous device. But Bedford couldn't wait -- and besides, he wanted nothing more to do with them. Only an artist of Thorpe's caliber could be allowed to experience this discovery before it was bestowed upon a weak and desperate world. So he hurried downstairs in a fever of excitment and telephoned his old friend. only just returned from a strenuous northern tour, a successful and highly lucrative excursion which had culminated that afternoon with an exhausting open-air recital. Now, more than anything else, he desired peace and a little quiet and time to prepare himself for the ordeal of his homecoming. His publicity department had arranged a wild party for later that evening and he was not looking forward to it. He loathed the simpering affectations of the people who considered themselves his peers. He was surprised and intrigued to hear from Bedford. Arthur Bedford had slipped from his thoughts, along with many other embarrassing memories which would have been out of place in the mind of Earth's leading poet and thinker. Success had a way of gobbling up old friendships. He was momentarily irritated with Bedford's use of his old name but made no comment. The telephone Bedford was using was oldfashioned and apparently lacked video circuits -- Thorpe stared at the blank screen and found himself curious about how Bedford looked these days. Tqo, he had hoped to escape at least some of the dreary party ahead of him. Bedford wanted to see him now -- this evening. This instant. Please, Stephen, for old time's sake . I owe it to you... Thorpe actually smiled at that. What can we possibly owe each other? But he could not ignore the urgent supplication in Bedford's voice. He loved to feel needed and success seemed to have abstracted his relationships with other people to such ah extent that he sometimes longed for the deeper attachments of another time. "All right, Arthur," he said. "I'll be right over." IF He dressed quickly. With his mind on the forthcoming party -- he would see Bedford first -- he chose a black velvet evening suit and matching cape -- the one with the breathtaking emerald-green lining. His accessories were a loose white shirt with a magnificent ( ruffle around the neck, pointed black shoes and a widebrimmed black felt hat. Satisfied with his appearence, he selected an elegant swagger-stick from his ornate collection and sauntered quietly off into the night, leaving his twin Jaguars caged and delighting in the anonymity ofhis nocturnal venture. The cane was important. More than a complement to the rest of his attire, it was also an extremely useful defense mechanism: a builtin powerpack delivered quite a jolt of electricity to the jeweled tip. It had served on numerous occasions to fend off the unwanted attentions of overenthusiastic admirers -- and enemies. Public idols in this godless age were often subject to bad treatment and the law permitted him to carry discreet discouragement with him wherever he went. And it was comforting to realize one had such a stylish defense. The address Bedford had given him was only a few miles from his hotel, in one of the older and less fashionable areas of the diseased city. He found his way without difficulty but as he moved deeper into the slums he began to feel some qualms -- perhaps even a small measure of guilt. And when he finally stopped outside the gaunt and decrepit tenement his old friendModged in he felt a twinge of regret. The building could not be very far short off being condemned. Arthur Bedford must have fallen just about as far as anyone could possibly fall in the false economic structure of his time. Thorpe leaned forward and pressed the jeweled tip of his cane against an archaic electrical buzzer located on one side of the door. He kept his weight against it for some time, until he could identify the weak signal he had generated moving fitfully through the great house. Then he stepped back to wait. He studied his reflection in the grimy glass panel of the door. He looked younger than his fortyseven years. As a youth he had been blessed with the noble, aesthetic features of his calling and the soft passage of years and the simple demands of his sedentary occupation had allowed only a pouch or two of excessive flesh to mar his well-publicized and handsome face -- and even these unwanted medals of middle-age provided him with the semblance of maturity and wisdom necessary to his portrait as the Poet Laureate of swinging Britain. He waited for what seemed an inordinate amount of time before he detected distant scuffling sounds from somewhere inside the building; sounds that suggested the passage of some weary body down an ancient, creaking staircase. God -- this entire area should have been razed a decade ago... and cast a wan glow through the dirty glass panel, erasing Thorpe's image. The door swung open and the guarded face of Arthur Bedford peered out. For a moment Thorpe was caught off his cultivated guard. He hadn't expected the years to have extracted sucfi a cruel toll from his old friend. Bedford's features had always tended towards heaviness -- now they had become almost obese. Swollen bags of flesh hung under each watery eye and a lower lip so full and cracked that it projected out like some creaking verandah over his several chins was the next most prominent feature. Several weeks' untidy stubble stood out from Bedford's pale flesh and a few scraps of hair were carelessly smeared over his scalp. Deep lines of fatigue -- and despair -- had been etched into this miserable face and, for some reason he could not fathom, Thorpe felt -- for a moment -- wretchedly awkward and unwise. Bedford stared, blinking away the years in the half-light. He said, "Stephen -- " The word hung over a slience and carried a wealth of meaning. But to Thorpe, poet, it was suddenly the currency of a distant time and another age -- it disturbed him to remember some things. "I'm so glad so glad you could come." Bedford was almost shaking. They looked at each other. And there should have been time for their meeting to become inbued with some sense of occasion -- time for them to have remained in a trance-like state while they studied the many changes which time had rung down upon them -- but Bedford's private demon drove him on hurriedly. "Come in. Come in -- " He opened the door wide and Thorpe stepped inside. The place stank. A musty amalgam of old papers, discarded food containers and unwashed flesh. Thorpe's educated nose twitched with disgust. "This way." He followed Bedford up the creaking staircase. Was that shambling figure ahead of him really Arthur Bedford? That creature hinged forward from the waist in an arthritic stoop? Could time -- and a hostile society -- really do this to a man? And how unkind of life to remind him they were contemporaries. Perhaps, after all, he should have stayed at his hotel and rested up for a while -- and then gone to his reception -- instead of coming here; he wasn't in the proper mood for old-fashioned reminiscences. Still, IF he had come. He was here. Some common courtesy was called for. Bedford paused on the landing. He looked around at his visitor and gestured vaguely towards the open door in front of them. His expression was apologetic. "It's been -- been a long time," he wheezed. The climb upstairs had all but exhausted him. "But it's good to see you again, Stephen." His thoughtless use of Thorpe's discarded given name again upset the poet. He had chosen his new name with great care and it annoyed him to have it sullied by any perfunctory reference to its uninspired predecessor. But his anger quickly cooled. He was reminded that there had once been a life for them together, long before Virgil Thorpe had begun to impress a fickle and foolish public. Bedford was a scientist -- a reasonable grasp of the arts had always eluded him. He was groping and inarticulate -- he looked for truth deep in the abstract realms of physics and mathematics and considered art a preoccupation of the emotionally self-indulgent. That had been the essence of their ultimate incompatability, the reason behind their final disillusionment with each other. They had each sought the same goal -- but from different viewpoints -- and in the painful process of remembering some of these things his wrath was curbed and he found he could distill a small measure of charity toward this frail, lonely creature he had once called friend -- and more. "Yes," he agreed, "it has been a long time." He followed Bedford into the brightly lit room. room of a warehouse than a place where a man could retreat from the rigors of an unfriendly society. Benches were piled high with a bewildering variety of electronic apparatus -- the floor between was a refuse heap of discarded hardboard boxes and a confused tangle of varicolored wire weeds. A battered armchair had been pushed into a far corner of the room by all this activity -- there it faced the dead vacant mouth of a fuel fire and a 'tattered accumulation of books and magazines, piled high into ricketty wooden shelving already pulled out of shape by its burden. The air stank of solder and shorted electrical connections. It was a hostile environment. Science had always baffled Thorpe. He had a totally intuitive mind and had never mastered the complexities and the subtleties of scientific thought -- he had been a poor scholar but an ambitious soul, so perhaps it was inevitable that he should have gravitated toward the arts while Bedford pursued his private internal vision. The poet could only marvel at the meaning of so much technological bric-a-brac. Of course, Bedford had always been an inveterate tinkerer and had assured himself of a steady income years earlier when he had evolved a number of very clever patents. Obviously he had continued some side research -- and along the way he might even have picked up one or two gullible schemes. Admittedly, his press had been disastrous in recent years but there were probably still enough simple-minded sponsors of ratbaggery left in the world to provide Bedford with a small measure of monetary assistance. He had always been devious at getting what he wanted, Thorpe mused, and it was obvious that this was one gift he had not yet frittered away. Otherwise I wouldn't be here now... The public was a malleable monster shaped by taste and style. It had elevated Virgil Thorpe from obscurity and made him the most fashionable figure of his age: a performing poet. And while he had come so close to godhood Bedford had been driven -- by the very nature of his obsessions and the questionable areas of his investigations -- into becoming a recluse. Organized science had ostracized him -- the public lionized Thorpe. It was a strange balance -- and the deficit seemed to belong to the prematurely aged scientist. Bedford kicked aside the remains of several packages and gestured toward the tattered armchair in the corner. "Sit down, Stephen, sit down" The poet did as he was bidden, his lip curling a little in disgust when he noticed the deep layer of dust on the furniture. "I -- I'll get you something to drink." Bedford struggled with the sliding doors of a shelf cupboard. His hands were as inarticulate and fumbling as his clumsy speech with its unfinished sentences and wearisome pauses. Thorpe took off his luxurious cape and folded it carefully before placing it over the back of the chair. He sat leaning slightly forward so as not to crease it. His eyes followed Bedford's movements with wry amusement. "Would you -- would you fancy a little port?" The look of guilt and self-reproach in the scientist's face was a sure indication that he had nothing fclse to offer. Thorpe nodded graciously and accepted the small tumbler and the dark, almost viscous fluid it contained. Bedford's hands were shaking. There was a wild look of enthusiasm in his eyes the poet found difficult to correlate with the other, older image he carried in his mind. "You can't imagine," Bedford went on, "you can't really understand how -- how very good it is to see you again, Stephen." Thorpe winced at the repetition of his old name. The touch of their fingers -- for one brief moment when he had taken the glass of IF port -- had reminded him of something they had once thought permanent but which had sundered like everything else in the unwanted past. His own hands were well cared for. His skin was pale but it was cleansed regularly with the proper oils. His nails were well shaped and polished to perfection by the best man in London. Bedford's hands were repugnant -- they were old and ugly, the fingers cracked and unwashed and disgusting dark sediment was buried underneath the broken nails. It galled Thorpe to recall that he had once found those same hands attractive. a single long gulp. He licked his lips appreciatively. "Damn fine wine." Thorpe made no comment. The wine was foul. He took a long sip, intending to despatch the noxious potion as quickly as possible and to forget the flavor. He coughed and mopped his pencil-thin moustache with an initialed green silk handkerchief. "You said something on the phone," he tactfully reminded, "about some marvelous machine you've been working on." Bedford gave him a curious look. "A machine, did you say? Well, I suppose it is -- partly. But to describe it properly... yes, I have made an apparatus -- and it is true that it has certain, ah, mechanical parts. But that, my dear Stephen, is only the beginning." "Where is it, then?" Thorpe asked. "Ah, you must be patient -- patient." Bedford seemed to have performed some miraculous feat of physical regeneration -- he now stood straighter. His hands clasped behind his back, and his eyes were focused dead ahead upon some' private infinity. Thorpe was his audience and he was oblivious to everything other than the revelation he had prepared. "To think," he went on, "after all these years -- " He uncoupled his hands and described some awkward, ambiguous diagram in the air. Thorpe supposed it was a gesture meant to indicate the difficulties of his guest but made no comment. He put his glass aside. The port really was undrinkable. "After all these year," Bedford repeated. "But now it is done. Finished. And the world will never be the same. Stephen, I will tell you what I have here. I have a -- call it a machine, if you must -- but a machine that will revolutionize communications." The poet sniffed his impatience. "I thought we had enough of those gadgets already. Radios, videos, telephones, masers, lasers and -- " "No, no, no. Nothing like that. Not like that -- at all. Something vastly different." "Then for God's sake what is it?" Thorpe snapped irritably. "Stephen, be patient. Think -- think a little. All our disturbances, all of our wars and our intolerances -- they spring from one source: our inability to understand each other. We each live out our lives as prisoners in solitary towers, communicating with each other with signs that never -- somehow -- manage to mean the same thing to any of us. How can we ever hope -- expect -- to accept another person's point of view, to comprehend matters alien to our own way of thinking when we are boundbound, Stephen -- by the awful tyranny of words?" A sudden finger lunged in the poet's direction. "You. You've been -- very successful, haven't you? Poetry. Poetry is -- or was -- a communication with an intellectual elite. But it wasn't they who made this world what it is -- that was left to the mindless jargon of pqliticians and power fetishists. And you, Stephen -- you and your kind have reduced your art to the level of mass entertainment. You are no longer communicating on that level -- that level to which you once -- aspired. You have become -- a performer. And a very popular one, no doubt. But as a communicator you were finished years ago. Once they got their claws into you, elevated you, lionized you and made you what you are. But do they ever really listen, Stephen, and if they ever did -- would they hear anything? Not that it matters any more, of course. My machine will make your words as obsolete as last year's poem. I will bring an end to this intolerable confusion of mind and purpose which words have created and -- and crippled our intellectual promise. I will bring down Babel and restore man to himself! I will bring about a new millennium! T HE poet was shaking with anger. The megalomaniacal quality that had saturated the terminal portion of Bedford's tirade was distressing. He had listened with growing impatience while his exfriend had hurled insults at his craft and his calling and he was not prepared to accept much more. The fool had gone too far. Was it for this that he had been called -- to suffer humiliation and let his emotions be toyed with? "Look here, Arthur -- " When Bedford saw he was prepared to rise out of his chair he tempered his galloping enthusiasm and motioned the poet to remain seated. "Oh, I'm sorry, Stephen, if I've offended you. But think -- think what all this will mean -- what total communication will mean. No more misunderstanding. Mind will comprehend mind without having to pass through the clumsy medium of words. We will have -- we will have global peace at last! Oh, IF there's so much to work out, so much to consider -- " "You could begin by showing me this thing," Thorpe suggested, his anger tempered to a reasonable pique. "What is it?" Bedford brightened and moved forward toward the cluttered bench nearest the chair. "Come over here. I'll show you." Feeling a trifle foolish, Thorpe stood up and followed him across the room. Bedford gestured proudly at a cumbersome gadget that looked no different, to the poet's untrained eye, from any other piece in the overcrowded room. "There it is," he said. "The precursor of the new millennium for mankind." It was roughly the size and shape of a radio transmitter. The array of dials and meters meant nothing to Thorpe. The circular window in the center could be likened to a small video tube or the face of an oscilloscope screen, depending on your information. There was space along the bottom of the machine for all sorts of plug-in connections and what looked like two sets of complicated headphones housed in cumbersome headpieces, like the top section of a lunarsuit. "Is that all?" he asked. The whole box and tricks could have been Fitted into a four-by-three container without any difficulty. Bedford laughed. The sound was a short, almost hysterical squeak. "Well, what did you expect?" He leaned forward and threw a couple of switches eagerly. The machine hummed. "We'll see how it works, eh? I suppose you're wondering why I haven't called in the press? Well, I didn't want to. Tell me, Stephen -- do you find it strange that after -- after all these years I should remember you? And how we felt so strongly about the lack of proper communication in the world? Well, I wanted you to be here tonight to witness what I have done. To be -- to be the first person to witness the enormity of what I have achieved -- to have you understand." Of course this could not be strictly true, Thorpe thought cynically. Bedford would have tried out his machine -- probably to have seen his subjects run terrified from the house. It was unlikely that he would have had access to sophisticated test subjects under his present living conditions. Bedford tapped the machine affectionately. "Of course, this is only a prototype. Actual production models will be much smaller. People will have to wear them, you see, and -- perhaps I'd better explain some of the theory behind all this before I demonstrate?" "Please," Thorpe insisted, "spare me the details. I have to attend a function in a short while. If you want to show me how this thing works -- for God's sake get it going. I can't hang around here all night" A NY calculated cruelty in these words was lost on the scientist. "Forgive me. I had forgotten your impatience with figures. Here -- let me show you -- " He picked up one of the head-pieces and rested it carefully over his scalp. He made a few minor seating adjustments and tested one or two connections, he smiled. "You see? Quite comfortable." He gestured to Thorpe to put on the companion unit. "You'll get used to it very quickly." Gingerly the poet settled the complex headpiece over his head. Bedford came closer and made the necessary adjustments and then stepped back. "There. Now -- now to begin. I think perhaps -- perhaps we had better both sit down." The cables connecting them to the machine on the bench were long enough to permit Thorpe to return to his chair, and for Bedford to perch himself on an upturned wooden packing case. A distance of roughly nine feet seperated them from each other and from the machine. Bedford gestured to the small black control, box spliced into the cables and resting in his lap. "I'll tell you a bit more about that in a minute," he said. "But first, a little explanation of what to expect. You could call it -- and they probably will -- 'assisted telepathic contact.' A.T.C. -- now that's a good one for the press to boot around, isn't it? Well, why should I care? They won't be in business much longer." "Assisted what?" "Now don't get excited." The scientist waved a solicitous hand. "And don't go jumping into any of the popular misconceptions. Telepathy, as such has always been a fiction. The human mind just isn't powerful enough to broadcast and receive messages over a distance. But that it does broadcast has been established: all my little machine does is boost this infinitesimal current so that it will bridge the awesome distance between one mind and another. Just how far will have to be established with further experimentation. This is only the beginning, Stephen." The poet continued to regard the set-up dubiously. He scarcely knew what to think. Either Bedford was crazy or he had discovered some vital new principle and if he had... "Get on with it," he snapped, his irritation beginning to get the better of his polished courtesy. "I'm still waiting to see what you have." "Precisely." Bedford tested the volume control and nodded happily. His eyes became a triumphant. "I wanted you here, Stephen, to witness the death of words -- " IF The circular screen Thorpe had likened to an oscilloscope came alive with dancing green patterns. They were beautiful. The theory of science might have baffled him but the visible and end products sometimes awed him -- and such was the case as he stared at these enigmatic wiggles. "You are observing my thoughts," Bedford pointed out. "Not the electrical rhythm of my brain, you understand, but the actual message of my thoughts." But the poet could only stare and wonder. Was he being conned or genuinely mystified? "If you want to know what I'm thinking, Stephen, you only have to bring your mind into rapport with mine. To do this you will need to adjust that red volume control very carefully, otherwise .the full power of telepathic contact, might prove overwhelming. Advance it slowly." Thorpe hesitated. He looked down at the volume control nestling against his left arm. He took a deep breath, moved his other hand across and advanced the red knob a judicious notch. Nothing happened. Bedford was studying him keenly. He motioned with his head to continue advancing the volume. Thorpe moved it a notch higher. And another. scious of a faint susurrus of sound in his mind that might have been some small residue of background noise from the machine itself. And then he realized that it was less a sound than something else. His scalp prickled. A nervous tic he had forgotten years before invaded his left cheek, making it dance uncomfortably just below his eye. There was a strangeness about this rapport with a machine he found disturbing but curiosity -- and Bedford's earnest insistence -- forced him to follow through. A notch higher and there was still no perceptible difference. Was Bedford playing him for a fool? Angrily he twisted the dial an incautious three stages further. And found it. The rustling mental static cleared. His mind was illuminated as if by a searchlight. He became filled with rapture. Someone -- it had to be Bedford -- was smiling at him from over a vast distance. There could be no question about it: he had made contact with another mind. He had no reason to doubt -- every atom of his body agreed -- and at his fingertips was the means of intensifying this incredible rapport. What was it, really? Bedford's mind? Soul? Spirit? Definitely something unique -- the seat of personality and identity. For the first time in his life the poet was conscious of what it was like to have somebody else's thoughts creeping through his mind and he grew hungry for a fuller experience. Threshold was not enough. He passed beyond this meeting place of pure thought -- where atoms rustled soundlessly together and the human mind began -- and advanced the volume control as far as it would go. The impact was tremendous. He was engulfed in a psychic flood, and when it cleared he found himself possessed of a serenity which had eluded him through all of his previous adult life. Bedford had not been lying. His machine really did work. From now on it would be possible for each human mind to communicate directly with another -- the race would be absolved of the drudgery of words and all the mendacity that had accompanied oral communication. And Arthur Bedford had made all this possible. Thorpe had thought -- long ago -- that he had known Bedford better than anyone else and perhaps he had. But now he could see how grossly mistaken he had been, that it was impossible -- or rather, had been impossible -- for anyone really to know another. Now he understood Bedford's passion for enlightenment -- out of his loneliness and his desperation at the loss of their friendship which he, Virgil Thorpe, had engineered, had come something as meaningful as this. The shame of his callous disposal of their friendship sickened him. But he felt the scientist's compassion engulf him and soothe away the jagged teeth of his guilt. It is over. It is past. Let us for get and see what the future holds. Their minds locked, embraced and they looked out. Thorpe's mind had been quiescent and dumb underneath the great tide of Bedford's accomplishment -- now it soared and was united, was one and equal -- it reached out and marveled at this annexation of souls and they looked forward with one identity at what the future held. They saw a world stripped of the crutch of language. They saw a world where universal understanding was the accepted norm and where lies had been driven out and peace reigned forever, where evil had ceased to exist because no mind could harbor it. They saw the human race linked together as one great intellect. They saw an end to wars, to grubby competition and all the psychological ills which had crippled mankind. This was Arthur Bedford's vision. And it seemed too good to be true. If everyone understood everyone else Earth would be a paradise. But wait a moment. What is this dark beast I see? It asked a question. If individual motives, desires IF and ambitions were understood, then... What motives? What desires? What ambitions? The vision did not seem so beautiful now. Thorpe's mind projected its own visions -- the artist's struggle for his soul, his individuality apart from the mass mind. You cannot take this from us -- there is not one of us who is not in some small way a child of art . As murderers we became men and as artists the abiding conscience of mankind. You cannot allow this to happen, Arthur. Don't you understand... But of course he did -- understanding was what the machine was for. With an abruptness that was almost surgical in its shock the rapport was cut off. For a while a dark sludge shil . uneasily around in Thorpe's dulled mind, waiting for words to give terrible weight to his fear when he found time to speak. through. Bedford's hands and face were soaked with sweat. Thorpe's left cheek twitched crazily. He levered the headpiece away and struggled to his feet. Bedford raised his palsied hands and pushed his own headpiece aside but he did not get up. He remained crouched on the packing case as if he had been struck down by something too big to grasp. "Arthur -- you must destroy this thing," Thorpe said. There was no demand in his words, only a simple statement of fact. "And your papers -- everything connected with this foul thing. Now -- at once -- before either of us have time to think. It's too monstrous to let -- " Bedford raised his head. His 'ancient cheeks were wet now with tears and his face looked ashen. "Destroy it? How can you say such a thing? The years -- the work -- the pain -- " He seemed to have left his mind somewhere where it was still being attacked by the awful monsters the poet had dreamed up. What motives? What desires? What ambitions? "Stephen -- I can't. Not this. It's n my life's work. I can't w . for nothing -- for less than nothing. Think of what it will mean to the world -- an end to all the disasters that have plagued us since the beginning of time. A fresh chance. A new beginning -- without lies -- without wars -- with hope, Stephen -- hope!" "But it will mean an end to everything -- can't you see that? To art, to literature, to music, to drama, to all the heirs of art! All the things that have made us something more than animals, the things that have made us great. An end to all individual aspiration -- can't you see that, too?" But Bedford could not. The communication machine sat between them, motionless and unmoved, watching this little drama, unwanted now and the very sum of all the inconsistencies of the world wrapped up in one miraculous piece of engineering. "Then you would have us suffer?" Bedford asked quietly, as though his mind were already made up. "Suffer all of the things I can dispell?"' "Yes -- don't you see, it's our only salvation?" Thorpe was shouting now. "We must destroy your machine to save the soul of mankind -- " "Are you sure, Stephen? Or just for the protection of your own fragile ego? "You're mad, Arthur. You must be. Some day we will ourselves, Arthur. We will race of the things you but that will be when he have attained an emotional and intellectual maturity necessary for the sort of society you hold ideal, not because some clever little machine has made it possible to accommodate our minds as they are now -- feeble and primitive and not even half formed." Bedford rose. A look of grim determination had come over him. "No, Stephen. My machine will liberate us now -- while there is still time." "No. It will debase man. Not all minds are equal -- you must know that -- and your machine has the potential to dilute individual intelligence down to a common and unimaginative norm. You're blind, Arthur. But more than that -- you're a fool, a fool actually to think you have done something worthwhile." Bedford stood mute, like some terrible statue, his face drained of all life. His silence incensed Thorpe. The poet screamed something incoherent, pushed past him and grappled with the communication machine. With one great heave he pushed it off the bench and it crashed loudly to the floor. The case shattered easily. It was only a jury-rigged test model and its insides broke up under the rain of smaller instruments that Thorpe brought down on it with maniacal Yenzy. ie stamped on the headpieces and hammered and ground them under his heel. He screamed abuse at Bedford, at science, at God and at everything else he had learned to hate. trance. "No, no! Stop that -- stop -- " Thorpe paid no attention but went on with his destructive orgy. He had to kill it,, eradicate it, destroyitdestroyitdestroyit... Don't, Stephen, please -- don't do it -- " The statue moved and suppli( Please turn to page #) IF This may be the strangest father-daughter love story... the electric dishwasher grabbed me. It shot up its lid and tried to submerge my head in hot, soapy water. Twisting, I kneed its smooth desert-colored front surface and managed to yank its cord free of the kitchen wall plug. The machine kept working, pumping scalding water at me, clutching at my shoulders with some kind of wiry tentacles. I grunted, snapped its arms off me for a second. I spun the heavy machine away from me. I dodged it, hopping across the afternoon-bright parquet of the kitchen. The dishwasher came rolling after me, tentacles outstretched. I grabbed up a blowmold kitchen stool and thrust it at the machine's running wheels. The dishwasher tripped, fell over on its side and splashed sudsy water all around. I ran for the sundeck, my right hand reaching up under my jacket toward my holster. Upright again, the dishwasher was rolling my way on its little wheels. Behind me was the Pacific Ocean, about three hundred feet straight down. I drew out my laser and waited, aiming. Soapy water had splashed out here on the bright black topping of the wide deck and as the dishwasher came humming from the kitchen into the sunlight it took a skid. Its arms clutched air, flapped, and it whirled wildly past me. It hit the redwood rail and went right on through, falling toward the ocean, followed by splintered wood. After the giant splash came big bubbles. Three white gulls came skimming in low over the water. They danced a second or two over the last of the bubbles and then soared up into the clear sky. I hung up my laser and went carefully back into the beach cottage. The stove looked like it could be nasty in a fight but apparently it wasn't gimmicked. Nothing else in Mary Redlafld's empty beach house came for me. In the beam-ceilinge.d living room the phone on the missing girl's marble-top coffee table begn to buzz. I watched it, approaching it from the side. It looked to be only a phone and I decided to answer it. "Tom," said the lank dark young man who appeared on the saucer-sized viewscreen, "is she there?" "No, Oliver," I told him. "At least I don't think so. I just arrived." I glanced toward the view window. It showed a quiet ocean. "Tom, you look distracted," said Oliver Bentancourt. I finally caught sight of the dishwasher swimming out to sea. Doing a fair Australian crawl with those unexpected arms. "I was looking at the dishwasher," I said. "How's that going to help us find out where Mary's been for the last two days?" I sat on the paisley-patterned sofa and said, "This dishwasher is out in the Pacific, swimming." "Oh, you mean some guy who works in a restaurant. Who is he?" "No, I mean an appliance, IF square squatty thing about half my size," I said. I took another look at the bright ocean. The machine was quite far out now and had switched to a rapid backstroke. "How can it swim?" "It has little arms," I said. Bentancourt rubbed a lean hand over his eyes. "I guess you're not kidding, Tom. I don't know. Maybe it's because of her late father that she's got an odd machine there. I don't know. Mary is -- well, she isn't like anyone I've known before. I really didn't want to consult your agency, you know. But since you and I have been friends since catechism class days I figured you wouldn't be working for Stanley Pope unless he was okay. Where is Mary?" "Easy, now. We'll find her. Stanley Pope specializes in cases that are a little eccentric." "I don't want to use the police," said Bentancourt. "You know -- because Mary has a pretty unhappy medical record. Well, psychological record rather. She's still in therapy. The police aren't too understanding." "Right." "I've called her friends, such as they are. I even tried to see if anybody was still at the old family place." He hid his eyes again for a moment. "She's not there? I mean, she didn't take something again?" "No," I said, though I wasn't yet certain. "Okay," said Bentancourt. "I'll call you tonight." He nodded, smiled quickly and faded from the screen. The dishwasher was only a speck now, a desert-colored dot heading for the horizon. I rubbed my chin, then scratched my chest with both hands. I went all through the threeroom beach house and Mary Redland was not there. Nothing I found told me where she might be. playing tennis with a robot. I sat down in one of the wroughtiron benches ringing the green clay. Down through the trees and housetops I could see a flock of sailboats on Sausalito's piece of the bay. "I'm perfecting my serve," Pope called to me. He flung a fuzzy white ball straight up, kept his eye on it, whapped it over the net. "You're using a badminton racket," I pointed out. The robot was shaped like a water heater and had four arms. It rolled after the tennis ball and sucked it up off the court with a little nozzle. Pope blinked. Wrinkles ran up his high forehead and were lost in his tight curly black hair. "Huh?" New rings joined those under his wide, circled eyes. "Badminton racket." I inclined my head in its direction. He scrutinized the racket, nodded. "I must have left the tennis racket in the copter." "Copter?" "I was test-flying a new copter." He waved at the robot. "Game's over." "I thought you gave up on copters." "They have a tendency to crash," he said, "into the Golden Gate Bridge." "When you're piloting." "Anyway, I decided to give copters one more chance." "And?" "This one crashed into the Golden Gate Bridge." I noticed the robot was speeding toward the tennis net. "Your robot thinks he just lost the game." "Huh?" "He's going to jump over the net and congratulate you." Pope turned. He was a lean, middle-sized man, nearly as dark as I am. "Don't," he yelled as the robot leaped up into the air. The tennis-playing machine didn't quite clear the net. It tumbled over front first with a clang, scattering tennis balls. "Gadgets," said Pope. He ran to the fallen robot and helped it up. "I had a chance to inherit a hundred acres of soy beans in the San Joaquin Valley, Tom. Instead I surrounded myself with gadgets." "Sorry, sorry," said the robot, feeling itself for damages with all its hands. Pope left the machine and came over on the grass with me. "What about this missing girl -- Mary Redman?" "Redland." "I worry about all these gadgets the way some people worry about pets. I get nervous and concerned when they fall down." He blinked again and new rings appeared around his eyes. "What do I take at six o'clock?" I reached a bottle of blue spansules out of my jacket pocket. "Two of these." "Well, I probably would have worried about soy beans, too." Pope shook two spansules into his palm, frowned. "Except soy beans don't fall down as much. Any trace of the girl?" "No," I said. "But her dishwashing machine tried to kill me." He swallowed, rubbed his forefinger along the side of his beaked nose. "Huh? Give me all the details." I described what had happened. Absently Pope undid his white tennis shorts and let them drop. "I should have gone over there with you. Why didn't I?" "You had to go to San Francisco, remember." "Oh, yes. One of my former wives is after more alimony. The second one, right?" "No, the third," I said. "Why IF are you taking off your clothes?" "Changing for dinner." "You're still outside." "Huh?" Pope bent and retrieved the fallen shorts, tucked them under his arm with his badminton racket. "I had a chance to go into the fishmeal business once. There's a lot less pressure in the fishmeal business than in the private investigation field. Right?" "I haven't seen any statistics." We continued across his slightly overgrown two-acre backyard, moving in the direction of Pope's big transplanted Victorian house. "What did that homicidal dish? washer remind you of? You did a particular kind of reaction take when I mentioned it." "Huh?" Pope stroked his nose. "Something I can't quite remember. But it ties in with this Mary Redland business." He stopped walking. "I really like the odd cases, Tom. Most of what we do know is simple electronic stuff. Bugging, counter-bugging, siphoning of computer information. Back when you were still in school someplace there were more odd things to work on. Her father." "Mary Redland's father?" "Right. He was a servomechanism tycoon, wasn't he?" "That and teaching machines," I said. "My friend Bentancourt says Mary didn't talk much about her father. He died a year or so ago, in an autosonic jet crash. I know the few times I met her she didn't want to talk about the past at all." "This name that your friend told us scared her, upset her -- what was it?" "Screwloose," I told him. "Right. A nickname for somebody maybe. Your friend hasn't any notions?" "Nothing new since he first consulted us." "Mary Redland was in a therapy group over in Frisco, right. How long?" "Three months. And, according to Bentancourt, she mentioned the name Screwloose during a session at this Dollfuss Center. He wasn't in the group with her but she told him about it afterwards. Because it scared her. A silly name but she was unsettled. Apparently that was all she was able to remember, just the name or whatever it is. Screwloose. Bentancourt figures maybe she remembered something else day before yesterday. Maybe that's why she took off." "Why should she be remembering things?" asked Pope as we climbed the wide wooden back stairs of his vast rococo white house. "Did Bentancourt say she'd lost her memory at some point?" "No, but she's had a breakdown or two and there seem to be certain things she has had trouble recalling." "Slender girl, isn't she?" "He showed you her picture." "I know. Willowy, tall. Blonde," said Pope. "Thin women tend to be twitchy. My second wife was." "Third," I said. "Your second wife was a plump redhead with dimples." Pope sighed. We were in the kitchen. "Maybe I should have stayed with her and taken up soy beans, huh? Go to the Dollfuss Center and sit in on that group therapy session. Mary Redland was going every Tuesday and Thursday night at eight, wasn't she?" "Yes. There's a session tonight. You figure she may show up there, even though she's been out of view for two days?" "No. I want you to find out what reminded her of Screwloose." He nodded at his refrigerator and it opened and handed him a cold bottle of ale. houseboat after I'd given him a verbal report on my visit to the group therapy session the night before. "We'll go up to Past after breakfast. Did I order orange juice?" We were under a metal umbrella out on a plank shelf over the edge of the Bay, at a restaurant called The Ruins Of Tiburon Tommy's. "Tomato," I said. I removed a pill from a box I carried in my left trouser pocket and put it on the edge of his soycafe saucer. "I'm sorry I didn't turn up anything on Screwloose. Why Past?" "Something," said Pope. He noticed a plate of plankton griddle cakes in front of him on the table. "I like to use Evelynski to supplement my memory sometimes." "Didn't they indict Evelynski for siphoning classified information out of the California State Credit Computer?" "They couldn't. No evidence." "I thought they had evidence." "Evelynski managed to siphon off all that, too." Pope was wearing a buff overall suit today. He rubbed his palms on his knees and the material gave off a purring sound. "Go back on what you told me last night. At the therapy session you said one of the group talked about Mary. He said something about how her late father had paid a lot of attention to her, especially to her education?" "Yes, a bi"g jovial pink guy in his middle forties. His name is Chuck Mogul," I answered. "When I asked him if he knew her he said he'd only read about her family a lot in the society columns. Years ago. Dr. Dollfuss is an admirer of yours -- otherwise they probably wouldn't have let me sit in. He mentioned your eclectic mind." "Right." Pope looked once more at the pancakes, then stood. "Let's go up and consult Evelynski." Past is a private research organization. When all the houseboats were cleared out of the waters IF around Sausalito Cosmo Evelynski had one moved to a lot in the low rolling hills of Tiburon. The big red-and-white boat served now as the top floor of his archives, with ten more floors sunk down into the hillside. Evelynski's office was in the living room of the old houseboat and we found him there dropping punch cards into an electric wastebasket. The basket would chew up a card, making a lopsided growling sound. Then it would spew the fragments back out at Evelynski. Evelynski was sitting on a low wicker stool, a confetti of shreds on the hardwood floor around him. "On the fritz," he said. He was a tall man in his low forties, short-haired and mildly rustic. Pope took a seat on a plaid ottoman. The rings around his eyes were flickering. "About twenty years ago," he said, "something like four men who were all prominent in the servomechanism field died. I've been trying to remember the details." "Hello, Tom," Evelynski said to me. He kicked the wastebasket away with his left foot. "You're thinking about a murder case, Stanley?" Pope said, "It's not on record as such. All four of these guys died in a six-month period, all in accidents. They were, though nothing much was made of it as I recall, the chief competitors of what's his name. Donald B. Redland. Mary Redland's father." "Redland of UnitedTech?" Evelynski stood up and crossed to a dumbwaiter in the wall. Pope nodded. "In one of these accidental deaths there was something -- something about an eyewitness. A little boy nobody believed. He claimed he'd seen a soft-drink machine push the victim off the edge of a bluff in Muir Woods someplace. A foggy day, nobody else saw anything." "The dishwasher," I said. "Reminded me," said Pope. Evelynski opened the door to the shaft and yelled, "Freak Accidents. Also Redland, Donald Bascomb. Muir Woods, vicinity, accidents. Servomech industry, obits. Anything else you can think of." He let the small white door flap shut. "I've dug down two more floors since you guys were here last." "Did you fix that computer who would only take requests given in classical Greek?" asked Pope. "He just outgrew it. He was new then and showing off. You know, the runt in the pack." Evelynski made his way around the circular room and stood next to the mouth of a metal chute. Far down under us a faint fluttering whir had started. In another thirty seconds file folders, tape reels, punch cards, loose clippings and glossy photos poured out into Evelynski's arms. "Here," he said and dropped the pile of material on Pope's lap. Three newspaper clippings fell in the process. I reached them off the hook rug and glanced at them. The headline on the largest clipping, a half page with photo, read: "Peninsula Girl Has A Special Sort of Teacher." The girl, six then, was Mary Redland and her special tutor was an android teacher especially designed by her father, Donald B. Redland, and built under his supervision at UnitedTech in nearby Sunnyvale. The story said Mary liked the teaching robot "an awful lot" and the family nickname for him was Professor Screwloose. There was a picture of Mary and the android in a bright playroom. I held the clipping out to Pope. "Here's Screwloose," I said. "Oh, so?" He took the clipping. "Also Chuck Mogul," I added. "You're getting slipshod, Tom," said Pope. "One of the six people you spent two hours with last night is an android and you didn't tumble to it." "Nope," I admitted. "He's got a lot of believability. He struck me as a phony -- but a human phony." Pope tapped the photo. "This was taken at the Redland place down on the Peninsula, wasn't it?" "That's right," I said. "The estate's been empty since Redland was killed. Nobody's living there. But supposedly it's still guarded by a lot of Redland's mechanisms." "Huh?" said Pope. He rolled up the piece of newspaper and rubbed it across the tip of his sharp nose. "I wonder if Mary Redland's gone there. What she's trying to remember has to do with this damn android and probably with that old house." "I'd better drive over there and check," I said. "After we go through the rest of this stuff, yes," said Pope. "Stop at my place and gather up some tools for jobbing the burglar alarms. We have something or other for stunning robots, don't we?" "Yes. Do you want to come along this time?" "No, I want to call on Chuck Mogul," said Pope. "You said Dollfuss records show him with a San Francisco address?" "Yes, Telegraph Hill." I wrote the address on a memo slip. "I want to ask him why he's no longer Screwloose," said Pope. Redland estate. I'd parked my land car three hundred yeards beyond the front stone wall, in the shadows of a grove of black oaks. The day was ending early and a prickly mist was tumbling out of the darkening sky as I walked carefully toward the front gates. The gates were twice my height and twisted into patterns of Rs and grape leaves. The gate was the kind that gave off an alarm ring if touched and an electric wire netting grew up to six inches above the high thick stone wall. FloodIF lights had been aimed at the cleared ground on the visitor's side of the gate and just on the other side of the wrought iron a black police dog crouched, fangs bared. But none of it was working. The floodlights weren't on, the robot dog was silent and there was no life in his vinyl eyes. The gates had swung open a few feet. I'd been prepared to try to gimmick the alarm system and pick any locks I ran into. I had a brown nearleather attache case under my arm. I didn't need it. I walked through the gates. The mist fell and rolled, thickening. Far away, back on the highway, a diesel truck groaned by. Passing the mechanical watch dog, I brushed against him and he fell over sideways. I could see the shape of the house now, a quarter of a mile away. Cupolas and spires and weather cocks jabbing free of the mist. The main house was three stories, twenty-five rooms. A six-car garage with chauffeur's suite, a copter hangar and two small guest houses were supposed to be beyond and behind the main house. The grass had been recently cut. It had a damp fresh-cropped smell. The trees, hundreds of birches and willows and pines, were less cared for. Approaching the house, I saw an android sprawled in the brush. He was a gardening robot and he seemed to have fallen from a ladder while pruning. He was broken and beginning to rust. His bent hand still clutched a pair of shears, orange now from exposure. There was only darkness in the main house. I went around it, listening. I crossed a stable yard and saw light. A fluttering unsteady glow coming from a cottage deep among willows. I went toward that. A metal plate screwed to the cottage said: Miss Mary RedlandHer Playhouse. I knocked. The motion of my knocking pushed the door open. Inside the small room was Mary. She was sitting in a low wooden chair, her legs bent up and tightly together. On a child-size desk beside her stood a kerosene lantern, sooty smoke fluming up from it. "Hello, Mary," I said. She looked up, nodded, smiled faintly and briefly. "Hello, Tom." "This is where you've been?" "Most of the time," Her prettiness seemed to come and go on her face, wavering like the lantern light. "I guess Ollie hired you to come looking for me." "That's right." I took a lopsided sofa chair for a seat. There were shelves climbing the walls, cluttered with toys. Simple stuffed toys and complex mechanical ones. Below the shelves were teaching machines and film viewers, spools of history and math piled atop them. "Somebody is always and continually looking after me," said Mary. "Since always." She locked her slim hands over one knee. "I remembered some things and I came back here to think about them. To reflect, more or less." I watched her in silence. "They never," said Mary, "thought I'd remember. And I didn't, actually, quite remember for a long time. Then I began to." I stayed quiet. "Fifteen. No, twenty. Twenty years almost," said Mary. "When I was about six years old. My father and one other man who worked for him. They're both dead now. I suppose that's funny. Twenty years ago they killed four people." "Rivals," I said. "People your father couldn't buy out?" "His ambition was to become much bigger. He did, too," said Mary. "They, my father and the other man, came up with a fine and simple idea. Not something that would seem simple to me or possibly to you -- only to them. He could have kept trying to deal with them Financially, buy them. Except this new idea was simpler and not as expensive. So they figured out how to adapt some of their fine machines and mechanisms. Adapt them to kill people. Not in any obvious ways, though. To push them out of windows or arrange accidents. There's a funny side to that, too, being killed by your refrigerator or your color TV console." I nodded. "I met one of those machines." "Yes, I guess a few of them are still around," she said, "to keep an eye on me. I gave up trying to avoid all the mechanisms dad thought should keep track of me. You probably saw it in that beach house dad bought for me." "That's right." Mary said, "The problem vas, the problem was I walked in." She shook her head. "No, on the planning of one. They were very thorough. They made charts and diagrams. Maybe that's how you should kill people, carefully and with a good deal of thought and deliberation. I walked in. It was up there at the big house. In dad's den, which was supposed to be private. I didn't always pay attention to that kind of restriction then. I was six and they'd not bothered to lock the door this one time. I walked in, very silent. Dad was at his long wide work table, drafting table, and they were talking. I listened for a long while until they noticed me." The mist was thick at the little room's leaded windows. "At First they -- d;ad especially -- tried to convince me I hadn't heard anything or that it was just a game. The problem was, you see, they went right ahead and killed the man. So I asked about it." She stood and wandered to the low black-and-gray machines. "This is where they did it." "They worked to make you forget?" IF "Yes," said Mary finally. "It used to be called -- what was it? Brainwashing? It wasn't going to hurt, dad promised. Seems to me -- it seems to me it took weeks to do. They used these machines and some others." She paused and took a sharp inward breath. "And my tutor. I had an android. A nice affable robot who taught me and read stories and was nice. I called him Professor Screwloose. I don't know why, something dad said once is where I got the name I think. He helped them do it and after that he was gone, sent someplace else. For years I forgot, didn't remember. Except it started trying to come back. You know, I had some problems. Yes. I went into therapy finally and I really began to remember." She turned to me. "He was there, though I didn't realize it at first." "Screwloose," I said. "Yes," she said. "Calling himself Chuck Mogul and passing for human. I guess dad had programed him to keep watch on me. Even with dad gone, nobody turned poor Screwloose off. He's still hanging around, watching after me. Protecting me. I suppose he's anxious to keep me from remembering, even though it doesn't make much difference now." paint me as not too nice a X guy," said Chuck Mogul. He came into the cottage grinning. There was a black pistol in his believable right hand. "Gee, Mary. We have meant nothing but good for you." She leaned against the black machines. "It's all over, Professor Screwloose." "No, I don't feel that," said the android. "Gosh, your dad, god bless him and keep him, set me up swell, Mary. With funds and a nice place on Telegraph Hill in San Francisco. All I haye to do, as long as I live, is look after you. Not only to keep yop from thinking about some unpleasant things that might have happened when you were a cute little tossle-headed kid. No, I'm dedicated to seeing to it you have a calm, pleasant life always." "Good Christ," said the girl. "My father was enough. I don't want any more sweet concern. I'm me now, full grown -- and I don't want you." "Gosh, Mary," said Screwloose. "Don't talk like that. I'm always going to be around. I'm -- gee -- I'm made that way, honey." "You shouldn't have," I said, "gotten so close. Shouldn't have gone to the therapy sessions." The android agreed. "I debated a lot about that. Gosh, but I was worried. About what she might blurt out there in front of the others. So I took a risk, pulled a few strings and got in the same group with her. No, I have to admit that ( Please turn to page # ) The generation gap was a grim reality -- but Klay welder never suspected its longevity! Glory B as gently as babys' breath. The gravities held a quarter-inch above the ground as the big engines hummed down the scale and sighed. Klaywelder sighed with them. Then, without a glance outside, he pulled himself up quickly from the pilot's couch and walked the few feet to his quarters. At the foot of his bunk he carefully pressed his right thumb against a particular spot on the bulkhead. The deck beneath him shuddered and screeched in protest as its atoms were harshly realigned. The metal surrounding his cargo was now unmetal -- a horrid molecular mess with all the spectographic purity of scrambled eggs. Klaywelder nodded with satisfaction. No one, not even Klaywelder himself, could open it now -- only the peculiar little character on Filo who had installed the thing could wrench it back to normal without melting down the ship. Klaywelder strolled back to the cabin and stuffed his pipe with Guubi weed. The first puff made him gag. He scowled and knocked the bowl out on the deck. Earth tobacco, he promised himself, would be First on his list. And with what he had in the hold he could well afford the best, this time. He glanced through the port at tjie rolling, sage-green hills and whipped-cream skies. Last stop, Pharalell IV, and then home -- and more credits than even he had ever dreamed of. Klaywelder's smug contentment turned to mild annoyance. The domed entryport at the edge of the field looked like an ugly pink hive -- and now, out of that hive swarmed three angry silver hornets, making their way for the Glory B. As the hornets drew closer they turned into glittering speedsters. Klaywelder spotted the tiny Federation emblems on their sides. Two of the speedsters carried customs guards with dark rifles bouncing off their backs. The third held the short, stocky frame of Arto Frank. Klaywelder bit his lip. He hadn't seen Arto in six years -- and Arto was the last person he'd hoped to run into on Pharalell IV. Klaywelder dropped to the ground and closed the port behind him. Frank burned rubber inches from his boots. "Uhuh. I thought so." Arto Frank eyed him grimly. "What do you want here, Klaywelder?" He didn't wait for an answer. His head jerked to one side and motioned the other speedsters. "Mac, Artie -- seal the ship." . The guards braced kickstands and moved forward. "Hold it," warned Klaywelder. The guards looked at each other, then at Frank. Klaywelder backed against the hull and pointedly pressed a bright stud at his belt. Frank watched him from narrowed eyes. Klaywelder folded his arms. "I just wanted to get this whole little scene down on film, Arto. All right, now tell 'em." Frank showed the barest instant of hesitation. Klaywelder smiled to himself. He reached into his tunic and tossed Frank a neat blue packet. Frank caught the object without looking at it. "Travel Clearance," said Klaywelder. "Ship's Registry, Ownership Certificate, Parole Papers and Federation Tourist Visa." "Tourist Visa," Frank repeated and looked at him without expression. Then he turned his head and nodded slightly at the two guards. They pressed their speedsters to life and roared off across the field. "You can turn off the gimmicks now," said Frank. "If you had them on in the first place." "I did," said Klaywelder. He pressed another stud. "I'm not under arrest, then?" "No." Frank faced Klaywelder squarely. "You're not under arrest. What you're under is a thirtytwo-hour surveillance until you break atmosphere." "That's harrassment -- " "You can forget the guardhouse law, Klaywelder," Frank said flatly. "Just remember this. As Federation Customs Officer on PharIF alell Four I can arrest you if you break the law here, lock you up, seal your ship or send you right back to Barrion for breaking parole. I'll do that, Klaywelder, if you so much as step on the grass. Understood?" Klaywelder nodded. "Just # set the record straight," Frank added quietly, "I know why you're here. I've even got a fair idea where you've been." He glanced up at the ship's dark hull. "I can smell contraband fur, Klaywelder -- behind eighteen inches of titaniuirf. I'm sure you have a nice hoard in there. I'm just as sure you could turn the whole cache into carbon before I could get a Search  Seizure." Frank shook his head. "I wouldn't go to the trouble. Just remember -- " he poked a menacing finger at Klaywelder -- "you're not dealing with animals here. The Pharalellians are intelligent beings under Federation protection. You lay one hand on a Pharalell pelt -- " "Arto!" Klaywelder let an expression of shock cross his face. "Uhuh. Sure." Frank stared at him distastefully. "I forgot. You're a tourist. Just don't you forget, Klaywelder." With a final look of disdain, he mounted his speedster and disappeared across the blue tarmac. outer fringes of the law -- and somewhat beyond -- Klaywelder had learned to maintain an outer calm in spite of inner feelings. It was difficult to hold onto that control now. Difficult? It was all he could do to keep from shouting, jumping up and down, turning handsprings. Arto Frank was right, of course. There was indeed a lovely cache of furs beneath the metallic fruitcake of his deck -- heavy, cobalt-blue Rhinofox from Claxin, incredibly fine Sapphurs from Ebbinode and fifty-thousand rare microfurs from Deserexx -- inch-long platinum pelts from the tiny minkmice, who conveniently welded themselves together in death to form long, silky stoles. And all those goodies looked like so much boar bristle next to what he was seeing now. He strolled beneath the feathery, sage-blue trees in the central plaza of Ochassh, the town nearest Pharalell's sole spaceport. He felt a little like an ant at a convention of beetles. The Pharalellians were roughly the size of teenage elephants but there was nothing remotely elephantine about them. They strolled gracefully and majestically about the plaza -- four long legs moving in rhythm with shorter forearms hanging from shoulder height. If a prize Afghan were mated with an oversized anteater, Klaywelder decided, their progeny might look something like a Pharalellian. But Klaywelder only absently noted these minor characteristics -- for covering those great bodies from head to toe was the most indescribably glorious fur he had ever seen. It was finer than a spider's gossamer strands. It had the sheen of a lovely woman's hair by moonlight, the sparkle of a dewcovered leaf in early morn, just touched by the sun. And it came in blacker than jet, in breathtaking amber, in fleeting cream -- and in every other shade he could imagine. Knowinghis special customers as he did, Klaywelder was sure each pelt -- just to be ultra-conservative -- Klaywelder gave up. Counting credits in stacks that high made him dizzy. He played tourist for the rest of the afternoon. He bought examples of carved Dinii wood, a favorite Pharalell souvenir. He sent half a dozen postcards to people he had never heard of and ignored Arto Frank's man, who had not been more than twenty yards behind him all day. At sundown, he walked back to the ship, had a leisurely meal and fell into a peaceful sleep. His dreams were so erotic and furry he almost blushed passing the mirror on the way in to breakfast. Klaywelder had managed to stay out of jail more often than he'd been forced to stay in. He was sure, in his own mind, this was because he took his work seriously and went about each job with a surgeon's care. He had learned a lot about Pharalellians before landing on the planet. He knew they were extremely religious, exhaustingly polite and unbelievably naive. All three qualities placed them in an almost textbook Catewere rigidly protected by Federation edict against people like Klaywelder. On the other hand, the Pharalellians' own mores and manners tied Arto Frank's hands very nicely. Frank could in no way warn the Pharalellians against him. Discourtesy to any living creature -- and that included bad-mouthing fur thieves -- was a most extreme no-no. Frank, then, could not make a move until and if Klaywelder stepped out of line. And that Klaywelder wasn't about to do -- certainly not in any way discernible to Arto Frank. square -- large even by Pharalellian standards. Sun-washed white stone flowed into subtle pastels of pink and green. A high, ornate metal gate graced a vinecovered entryway. The big Pharalellian moved sedately out of his doorway and into the street. Klaywelder faultlessly allowed himself to be crowded off the stone walk. He flailed his arms wildly, then collapsed in a horrible heap. He lay there unmoving, his head cocked ominously against the curb. IF The Pharalellian stiffened, then cringed visibly. "Siim shave me!" it cried. "What have I done?" Klaywelder moaned. The Pharalellian swooped down and laid a beautifully furry hand across his brow. "I am Steressh-shi," it said gently. "You will call me Garii, please. It is a name reserved for intimate friends who have known me at least forty seasons. You have by my discourtesy earned the right to use it. Are you hurt badly?" Klaywelder sat up and blinked. "I'm all right. I think." He shook his head. Then his eyes widened. "Oh, no -- " Garii stiffened. "You are injured, then?" "No, it's not that." Klaywelder began frantically searching the street around him. "My physical body is of no consequence. Not when my spiritual well-being is threatened." Garii's eyes quivered under his furry brow. "Your -- spiritual -- " "Yes." Klaywelder nodded. "I can't seem to find my pouch. It was here -- I wear it around my neck on a silver chain -- " The Pharalellian bent down to join the search. "This pouch -- it is important to you?" Klaywelder sighed. "It is only my ticket into Paradise, nothing more." Garii sucked in a deep breath. "It contains the nail parings of my father and his fathers before him," Klaywelder explained somberly. "As I am the ninth son of the ninth virgin, the pouch containing the male spirits of my family is naturally in my trust." "Yes, naturally." Garii was openly trembling now. "Our ways are strikingly similar." "You noticed that?" Klaywelder peered under a loose bit of paving. "Actually, that's why I've been so anxious to visit Pharalell Four. I truly believe my people have a strong spiritual kinship with yours." "Oh, yes -- indeed!" Tears rolled down Garii's eyes, staining his silvery pelt a light cobalt blue. "And I, through gross stupidity, have banned your soul from the Thousand Rooms of Infinite Pleasure!" "It's nothing, really," said Klaywelder. Garii swept great hands to his face and moaned. "If you will permit me I shall begin Atonement by tearing out my visual organs. It is a small thing -- but a start -- " "No, please," said Klaywelder. "Ah -- there's my pouch. It was under your foot all the time." Garii stifled another moan. "Now I have trod upon your fathers. Visual organs alone will not suffice." "No problem," Klaywelder said  easily. "They're found." He hooked the pouch around his neck. "That's what's important." The Pharalellian gently helped him to his feet. "You must enter my house, now. I have much indebtedness to overcome." "Oh, no." Klaywelder yawned absently. "I wouldn't consider disturbing you." Garii's mouth opened in horror. "I could not blame you for refusing. I have no right to ask. Still -- " he faced Klaywelder with pleading eyes -- "I beg you not to leave me with no chance of Atonement." Klaywelder watched the sun form fascinating whorls of color on Garii's fur. Out of the corner of his eye he could see Arto Frank's man frowning in puzzlement at the edge of the plaza. "All right," he said finally. "If you really insist." "My gratitude is unbounded, sir." Klaywelder shrugged. "You can call me Klay." spend the remainder of his stay on Pharalell IV in his home. Klaywelder declined and the Pharalellian nearly removed his visual organs again before it was explained that Klaywelder could not possible spend nights outside his ship since his ancestral altars were located there and could not be moved. Garii understood. But during the daylight hours Klay must allow his host the opportunity to work at full Atonement. That, Klaywelder agreed, seemed fair enough. Klaywelder was not about to spend a night away from the Glory B. Not that Arto Frank could possibly do any damage there but Klaywelder did not intend to give him the chance. Besides that, he wanted Frank to establish a normal Klaywelder day-night pattern in his mind. Frank pulled up beside him on the narrow road from Ochassh to the spaceport. Klaywelder greeted him with a slightly lopsided grin. He was more than a little high -- mentally and physically. Wine had flowed freely at the party, and Garii made certain his guest-of-honor's cup was never empty. Every swallow, it seemed, was a step closer to full Atonement. There was more. Klaywelder was dizzy from mingling with the twenty or thirty Pharalellians assembled to meet him. Each one's pelt was more magnificent and multi-hued than any he had imagined before he came to Pharalell IV. Frank studied him. "You're going ahead with it, aren't you?" he said Finally. "I can read it all over you." He shook his head. "Klaywelder -- " "I don't know what you're talking about, ' r said Klaywelder. "I'm IF up to my ears in Pharalellian wine at the moment, Arto. My host -- Steressh-shi, to you -- I can't reveal his intimate name to strangers but -- " Frank's speedster jerked ahead abruptly, wheeled to block Klaywelder's path. "Listen," Frank said darkly, "I know what it's all about. I've known since the minute you set down here. You can't pull it off. Don't even try, Klaywelder -- " Klaywelder sighed. "I sense deep spiritual conflicts within you, Arto. At evening devotions I shall ask my ancestors to bring peace to your troubled soul." Frank made a pointed remark about Klaywelder's ancestors and their relation to Klaywelder himself. Then he left in a cloud of dust and disappeared down the road. Atonement, Klay, and because I consider you a spiritual brother whose devotion transcends the boundaries between us, I hope you will allow me one more privilege." "Only ask," said Klaywelder. "You have noticed the great door at the end of my quarters?" "I may have," said Klaywelder, who had noticed little else since he had become Garii's guest. "That door leads to the Shrine of my Ancestors," said Garii. "I would be honored if you would accompany me there." Klaywelder lowered his eyes to hide his excitement. 'T'he toenails of my fathers are pleased, Garii." His heart pounded against his chest. His research on Pharalellian religion had been very specific about ancestral shrines. Garii pulled a lavish key from the depths of his silvery fur. He inserted the key in the great door and something clicked. The massive panel swung open. Klaywelder held back a gasp. The room was as big as an auditorium. Dark, somber columns arched from the walls and met high above in a domed ceiling. A single shaft of sunlight fell from a high pane, giving the great vault an aura of eternal twilight. Nearly a hundred candles set in dark red glass circled the walls -- and spread carefully over the stone floor before each candle was a magnificent golden pelt. Golden... Klaywelder could hardly believe his eyes. If living Pharalell pelts were indescribable -- what could you say about these? "It is our belief," Garii said reverently, "that the degree of virtue attained by a Pharalellian is later reflected in the tone of his pelt. I am most pleased that my fathers and their fathers are all of respectable hues." You can say that again... Garii led him silently about the room and Klaywelder noted that a small earthen pot of wine and a clay dish of fruit had been placed before each glowing candle. "That is a part of my duty," Garii explained proudly. "As the reigning male in my family, I have been accorded this privilege. Each day I bring fresh offerings of reverence." He lowered his big head. "To do so brings great honor to me and my house." Garii laid a gentle hand on Klay's arm. "Come, my friend -- now I would show you Shastalian, greatest of my ancestors." Klaywelder followed past long rows of gleaming, golden pelts. Finally Garii stopped. "There -- " he pointed -- "Shastalian, grandfather of grandfathers. A saintly creature and the most famed of all Pharalellians." Klaywelder wanted to cry. He could hardly bear to hold his eyes on the rippling sea of gold at his feet. He was here -- this close to it. A planet's ransom and then some in one glorious pelt. Not that it really mattered but he wished briefly that he had been a little more imaginative about his own 'religion.' Somehow ancestral nail parings just didn't quite cut it next to Shastalian. "You see, Klay," Garii explained solemnly, "we consider the Pharalellian body to be unimportant. We are held within its bonds only a little while -- but Eternal Life resides in the Pelt. When we are fortunate enough to move into that Loftier Plane the troubles, cares and Atonements of this existence are left in the poor vessel we term the body. Your beliefs are similar, I think." "Oh, yes," Klaywelder said absently, "very similar, Garii." "When the time comes for one of us to pass on to that Higher Existence he is taken to a most sacred place. You have seen the large building on the other side of the plaza? The one trimmed in black and gold?" Klaywelder nodded. "That is Fakash-il Shrai. It means Abode of the Skinners." Klaywelder swallowed. He looked up at Garii. "The -- skinners?" "Yes. It is a most dedicated profession. Skinners are chosen from among only the highest and worthiest of chans. Since the body of a Pharalellian is never seen without his pelt the Skinner candidates are blinded at birth, of course." "Of course," said Klaywelder. He decided this was one phase of Pharalellian religion he could have done without. "They are very skilled members of the Priesthood," Garii went on. "They must be, since it is a delicate thing to transfer the living soul from the body to the Pelt." Klaywelder stiffened. "The -- living soul? You mean -- " "Certainly," said Garii. "There must be breath still in the body IF when the Skinners begin their task." He spread his hands. "Or else the soul would not go on to Eternal life, would it?" Klaywelder felt a cold chill creep up the back of his neck. He wondered how many Pharalellian ancients, at that last moment, looked up at the sharp blade and blinded eyes of the faithful Skinners -- and decided they weren't quite ready for Eternal Life as a golden rug. "You seem far away, my friend." Garii's voice held puzzlement. Klaywelder cleared his throat. "I -- was, Garii. I'm so overwhelmed by what I've seen, by what you've told me -- I fear I lapsed into meditation for a moment. I hope you'll forgive me." Garii sighed happily. "Don't apologize, Klay. To think that you have actually experienced the feelings I have known here myself." He stared gravely at Klaywelder. "Might I presume that my Atonement is now complete?" Klaywelder glanced once more at the great golden pelt of Shastalian, grandfather of grandfathers. Damn thing must weigh a good four or five hundred pounds. Still. "Yes, Garii," he said finally. "I'd say that just about does it." K laywelder eased through the lower hatch of the Glory B and flattened himself against the cold concrete below the ship. It was long past the middle hour of Pharalell's night. The light in Arto Frank's dome had winked out some time before but Klaywelder had waited patiently in the darkened cabin. Even in the Blacsuit, he felt as conspicuous as a blazing beacon crawling on his belly across the broad field. The skintight garment ate every photon of available light -- still, he imagined Frank's cold eyes cutting a blinding swath through the darkness. He was sure radar had his ship bracketed to the ground. If Glory B's hull rose as much as a halfinch or the power level of her engines suddenly changed -- every alarm in the area would scream itself into a blue hemorrhage. He was banking on the fact that Arto Frank would be expecting a ship to leave the field-not a man. And he prayed silently to his ancestors' mythical toenails that Pharalell was too small a post to include body sensors as standard equipment. At the rear of Garii's house, he pulled a small gravitic unit from under his Blacsuit and attached it to his belt. On half power he lifted himself over the high wall, then pulled himself smoothly along, inches above the clay shingles, and up the arching dome. With a suction attached to the single pane, he lifted the glass out easily with quick use of his cutter. Then, slowly, he lowered the grav's dial to one. Weight returned and pressed him against the tiles. He removed the unit and hinged a thin, sloping metal wedge to its base, forcing the wedge into its "load" position against a heavy spring. Finally he poked a shielded flash through the dome's hole, let a thin smile crease his lips. There it was -- dazzlingly bright even in the dim shaft of light. Shastalian. Klaywelder bit his lip. Here comes the tricky part... He placed the grav unit just inside the edge of the dome, then flipped his remote until he was sure the unit's weight had been sufficiently reduced to hold itself. When he was certain, he increased the weight and watched it slowly descend to the floor. It touched bottom a good eighteen feet from Shastalian. Klaywelder wiped sweat from his brow. The unit had no horizontal control. The trick was quickly to raise the unit a few feet, shut off its power, let it fall, then raise it again before it hit the floor -- and repeat the procedure until he could get the thing moving in a series of parabolic arcs toward Shastalian. Klaywelder took a deep breath. The first time his hand trembled and the unit fell nearly to the floor. He tried again. He was getting the hang of the thing now, and the unit was moving in slow, graceful arcs -- luckily, in the general direction of the Shastalian pelt. Ten feet. Fifteen. Seventeen -- now. Klaywelder gently halted the unit and lowered it to the floor. His heart pounded against his chest. He was only inches from the pelt -- he didn't dare press his luck further. Wiping his brow once more, he twisted the remote to full weight, pressing the unit below hard against the floor. Click ! Klaywelder winced. The noise seemed to echo off the stone walls -- was much louder than he had expected. But -- it was done. The spring-loaded wedge, set off by the unit's weight, whipped a thin steel tongue under the edge of the pelt. By raising the unit inches at a time, Klaywelder slowly wormed the wedge under the heavy fur, caterpillar style. He glanced at the horizon. A thin line of pink was edging the low hills to the east. He turned away and concentrated on the problem below. There was no more time -- the unit was nearly under the center of the pelt and it would have to do. He closed his eyes and turned the dial to full power. Shastalian lifted slowly off the floor and rose toward the ceiling, a shadowy golden ghost in the dim shaft of his light. The pelt nuzzled up against the top of the dome only yards away. Klaywelder extended a thin metal tube to the right length and gaffed Shastalian as he would a giant, furry fish. He had one more moment of panic when the pelt stuck in the dome's narrow hole. Then he was home free. Klaywelder touched the pelt for the first time. A chill ran through his whole body. There was absolutely no way to compare Shastalian to anything. prize, he pressed a small wafer to his throat and mouthed a single sub-vocal command. A few miles away, a relay clicked in Glory B s computers. Silent engines whined into life. And at the same time, alarms hooted and moaned across the field and bright beams stabbed angrily into the sky. Glory B rose swiftly from the spaceport in a low, ground-hugging curve, homing in on Klaywelder. For a moment blue strings of heat spat at her from the field. They halted abruptly. At that angle, Frank would soon have been sizzling the roofs off Pharalell homes and buildings. Klaywelder grinned. The ship streaked over the outskirts of Ochassh and came to a hovering stop three feet above him. He let the grav unit lift Shastalian into the port, then pulled himself up. The port snapped shut and Klaywelder bounded to the control cabin. He threw himself into the command seat and slapped one hand full across the board. Glory B lunged upward in teethshattering acceleration. Blue fire spiderwebbed against the hull for a brief moment. Then Pharalell IV shrank to a bright green globe against blackness. ready be on Red Alert -- but space was terrifyingly vast and the patrols were spread pitifuly thin. He would be long gone when they finally got to where he was supposed to be. A quick stop on Filo to open the scrambled hold, then a first-class plastjob for himself -- a good one, this time, from eyes to toes -- and then Earth. He broke out his last sixteenounce steak from the locker and topped it with a bottle of Pharalellian wine. In comfortable lethargy he strolled toward his quarters, stopping by the entry port to gaze once more at Shastalian. He would have liked to have spread the big pelt out to its full length but there was no place in the ship nearly large enough to accommodate the great golden fur. Stretched out on his bunk, Klaywelder thought about Arto Frank and grinned tiredly. Poor Arto. He was, though, genuinely sorry about Garii. Garii was all right. He hoped Shastalian's loss didn't hit him too hard. Still, he reasoned with Klaywelder logic, Garii had lots of ( Please turn to page #) serve the usual amenities required For many moons, almost as between a visiting magician and his many as there are over his planet, host, but he roams the countryside Shoogar, the local magician-inwith little regard for the sensibiliresidence, has been predicting dities of the local gods. Shoogar and saster. It arrives, quite suddenly, in his skeptical friend Lant, fearing the person of As-a Shade-of-Purthat the gods will wreak divine retple-Gray -- Purple, for short -- a ribution on the land, order Purple practicing sorcerer from a land far to cease his activities. Purple pays beyond the dust clouds who sets little heed. his flying nest down in Shoogar's Then Shoogar insists that the indistrict. truding magician teach him some Illustrated by Jack Gaughan and Tim Kirk of his more ingenious tricks -- not least his magnificent flying spell. Purple tries to explain that his "magic" (the only word the speaker-spell can find to translate Purple's designation for his tricks) is based on the laws of nature and that Shoogar must be patient and study long and hard in order to master such legerdemain. Shoogar is not to be appeased with that study-now-spell-later nonsense. He and Lant go off to perform the customary rites preparatory to invoking powerful curses. Standing on the banks of the pond where the flying nest rests, Shoogar casts enough spells to destroy the nest and put an end to that meddling magician forever. Satisfied that he has defended his honor, Shoogar turns to see Purple standing, unhurt and unimpressed, on the other bank. Foiled again VI floating behind. Every eye was on him. His hands were on his hips as he looked thoughtfully down at his nest. How long had he been standing there? "Fascinating," he said. And he started briskly down the slope. His devices followed. The nest sat like a great egg in the middle of the river. Water backed up behind it, flowed in great torrents past its bulging flank, splashed angrily up and over the trampled shore. Angry mud creatures clambered over its dull black surface, scratching determinedly at the spell designs. Gobbets of mud and bloody fur streaked its sides -- but still the spells of Shoogar were visible, almost arrogantly upright. That made me uneasy. My eyes searched for the dents in the stranger's ruined nest, the dents surely put there by the horns of the rams. I couldn't find them. Purple strode straight down the slope and into the water. Not a droplet of mud stuck to those peculiar boots of his -- in contrast to Shoogar's legs and mine, which were mud to the hip. A pair of mud-skunks attacked the magician as he entered the water. Purple ignored them and they couldn't seem to get a grip on his boots. He stood under the bulge of the nest and we waited for his scream of fury. Carefully, with a small, edged tool, he began scraping off bits of Shoogar's curse-signs and putting them into small transparent containers. His mindless speakerspell continued to translate his ramblings. "Fascinating -- the power of these fluids-secreted-for-the-control-of-bodily-functions is like nothing I've ever seen before. I wonder if these effects could be produced artificially?" Twice he sniffed at what he had scraped off and twice muttered a word the speakerspell did not translate. When he finished, he dipped his hands in the river to wash them, incidentally offending Filfo-mar, the usually gentle river god. Purple turned to the door of his nest. It was flush with the curved wall but outlined in orange to make it visible. He punched at a square pattern of bumps on the nest. The door slid open and Purple disappeared inside. We waited. Would he continue to occupy his nest, living in the middle of our defiled river? The flying nest hummed and rose twenty feet into the air. I screamed with the rest, a wordless scream of rage. The nest turned in an instant from black to silver. It must have become terribly slippery, for every particle of mud and blood and potion IF from Shoogar's spell slid down the sides, formed a glob hanging from the bottom of the nest, and dropped in a lump into the river. The nest again turned black. It moved horizontally across the land and dropped gently to the ground -- just a few yards west of where it had stood an hour ago. Only now it rested at the edge of a region of churned mud, where the rams and mud creatures had fought to destroy it. I could see Shoogar sag where he stood. I feared for my village and for Shoogar's sanity and my own. If even Shoogar could not defend us from the mad magician we were all doomed. An angry rumble came from the villagers as Purple emerged. Purple frowned and said, "I wish I knew what's gotten you people so angry." Somebody threw a spear at him. I couldn't blame the lad. No sound, no pattern of mere words, could properly have answered the magician. But the young man, enraged beyond sanity, had hurled his bone spear at the stranger's back -- and worst of all, without a blessing! It sruck Purple hard in the back and bounced off to the side without penetrating. Purple toppled, not like a man, but like a statue. I had the irrational conviction that for a single instant Purple had become as hard as stone. But the instant was over. Immediately he was climbing to his feet. The spear, of course, had done no harm at all. One cannot attack a magician with an unblessed spear. The boy would have to be brought before the Council of Elders. If the village survived that long. T HE suns rose together, the blue sun silhouetted off-center within the other's great fuzzyedged and crimson disc. I woke at noon. The evacuation was already well underway. My wives and spratlings had already done a good deal of the packing, though the fear of disturbing my sleep had slowed them somewhat. Under my supervision and the necessary discipline the rest of the preparations progressed quickly. Even so, we were very nearly the last family to leave the village. The lower rim of the red sun was already nearing the mountains when I dropped behind the procession of my wives to tarry at Shoogar's nest. Shoogar looked tired but curiously determined. His eyes were alive and dancing and his fingers moved with a life of their own, weaving spell knots into a leather strap. I knew better than to speak to him while he was in the midst of a duel. For though no formal declaration had yet been made by Purple, this was a duel. Perhaps Purple thought that, as long as no duel was declared, Shoogar would sit peacefully by and allow him to continue with his duel-mongering actions. But I knew Shoogar better than that. The fierce glow burning in his eyes confirmed what I -- and all of the rest of the villagers -- already knew. Shoogar would not rest until there was one less magician in the village. I hurried after my wives. Burdened as we were, we would be traveling well into the night. I had even removed the hobbles from my women so they could travel faster. It would not do to underestimate the seriousness of the situation. We had reached our destination by the time the moons were overhead. Most of the families of the villagers were settled on the steppes to the north, a series of long sloping rises that overlooked the river and the cluster of giant trees that bordered the place we had left. The encampment was a sprawling place of lean-tos and tents, smoky campfires and shrill womboys. Already scavengers were rooting busily underfoot and even before we had selected a campsite many of my own spratlings had melted away into the bustle. Although it was already well into the night, few slept. The eerie glow df the moons gave us a twilight of neither red nor blue but ghostly gray -- a strange half-real quality for the waiting time before the next step of the duel. An almost festive air pervaded the settlement. From somewhere in the bachelor's section came the brawling chant of a game of rolling bones and an occasional cry of triumph as one of the players scored a particularly difficult pass. It does not take much to please the lower classes. awaited us in the morning. Hinc and I were standing at the edge of the encampment, looking down the slope toward the village, discussing the forthcoming duel, when we heard a distant sound like a single 'cough from Elcin's throat. We looked down to see a tremendous plume of black smoke wafting through the village treetops. "Look," said Hinc. "Shoogar has started already." "No." I shook my head. "I think he is only warming up. That looked like a preparation spell more than anything else. Something to get the attention of the gods." "Pretty fierce attention-getter," noted Hinc. I nodded. "It's going to be a pretty fierce duel. I wonder if we IF should move again? Farther back." "If we are not already out of range, Lant, we haven't time to get out of range," said Hinc. "Even at a dead run. And even if you are right you could never persuade the others. They are too tired." He was right, of course, but before I could speak we were interrupted by a crowd of frightened women running hysterically through the encampment as fast as their hobbled legs would carry them. They were screaming Purple's name. I caught up with and cuffed my number-three wife to attention. "What is the matter with you?" I demanded. "It's the mad magician. He's trying to talk to the women -- " "The mad magician -- here?" "He brought his nest to the spring where we wash -- and he's trying to talk to us. He wants to know why we moved." Had the man no self-respect at all? Talking to women? Even from the mad magician I found this hard to believe. I strode purposefully through the crowd, now milling nervously about, women comforting other hysterical women, men interrogating their wives, sprats crying for attention. As I moved toward the spring some of the men caught up with and followed along behind me. They were muttering nervously. It was as the women had said. Purple had brought his nest to a spot just above the encampment, near the spring the women had chosen for washing. The great black egg-shape was closed and the magician was nowhere to be seen. The others waited only long enough to see that the women had spoken the truth. Then they turned and fled quickly back to the settlement. Hinc and I exchanged a wordless glance. Why had Purple followed us? Was he fleeing from his duel? I had never heard of such a thing before. What did he want of the villagers? I circled the nest warily. It looked much as it had on the fearful night when 'I first saw it. I crept closer. There, lightly pressed into the dust, were the imprints of Purple's strange shaped boots. But where was Purple now? Suddenly, that booming hollow voice. "Lant -- just the person I was hoping to see." This was too much for Hinc. He turned and disappeared down the slope after the others. I ached to join him but I had to find out what the magician was up to. The door to the nest slid open and Purple stepped out, his strange paunchy shape oddly disquieting. He had a fearful grin on his face and advanced toward me as if I were an old friend. His speakerspell drifted along behind. "Lant," he said, moving closer. "Perhaps you can tell me -- why have you people moved your village? The other spot was so much nicer." I looked at him curiously. Could it be that he did not know of the duel? Was it possible for anyone to be that naive? Well, so much the better -- his ignorance was Shoogar's asset. I certainly would not tell him. Why should a layman be concerned with the affairs of magicians? I didn't want to get involved. "Yes," I said, "the other spot was nicer." "Then why do you not stay there?" "We hope to return soon," I said. "After the time of the conjunction." I pointed to the sky where the suns were setting together. Ouells's blue-white point near the bottom of Virn's crimson disc. "Oh, yes," Purple nodded. "Very impressive." Turning, he gazed admiringly at the ground behind him, "And it makes the shadows very pretty, too." "Very pretty -- " I stopped in mid-sentence. Sharp and blue the suns were, each with a bloody fringe -- constant reminder that the time of terror was upon us. Was the man fearless or foolish? I shut up. "Very pretty," Purple repeated. "Very, very pretty. Well, I will remain here with you and your people. If I can be of any assistance -- " Something within me shriveled and died. "You -- you're going to stay here?" "Yes, I think so. I'll go back to the village when you people do. This will give me a chance to test the mountain area for a day or so." "Oh," I said. He seemed to lose interest in me then, turned and went back to his nest. I waited to see how he caused the door to slide open. I had been puzzling about it since I had first seen him do the trick. There was a pattern of bumps in the surface of the nest wall. Apparently this had something to do with the opening of the nest, for he tapped at these in a quick precise pattern. I presumed that the pattern must have been the spell to open the door but he activated it too quickly for me to see and memorize it. He stepped inside. The door slid shut and he was gone. Dejectedly I trudged back to the encampment -- or what was left of the encampment. Already the villagers were fleeing from their makeshift homes. Men were hastily packing travel kits -- women were calling for spratlings. Children and dogs ran excitedly through the crowd, kicking up dust, chickens and scavengers. Panic-stricken families were alIF ready moving across the steppes, upslope, downslope, sideways, anywhere, just as long as it was away from Purple, the magician who brought disaster with him. My own wives were standing about nervously, waiting for me. Numbers one and two were trying to comfort number three, who was most upset. "He kept trying to talk to me -- He kept trying to talk to me -- " "It wasn't your fault," I told her. "You will not be beaten for his trespass. You did right to run." My words had an immediate calming effect on the distraught woman, more so than all the stroking and soothing of the other two wives, once more proving that only a man can know how to handle the unusual situation. "Pick up your packs," I told them. "We must be on our way." "On our way?" questioned one. "But we just got here." "We must move again," I said. "Before this area is blasted. The mad magician's animal manners have blinded you to the true danger. Shoogar will follow Purple up here. Now pick up your packs or I will beat all three of you." They did as I bade them -- but with no small amount of grumbling. Even though I thought to remove their hobbles so as to speed the journey, they grumbled -- and for once they had cause. For a day and a half we had fled the site of the coming duel. Purple had easily, thoughtlessly nullified that effort with only a few moments of flight. Within an hour the encampment was deserted. As we moved down the hill I thought I saw Purple moving like a lost soul through the hastily erected lean-to shelters. W E were the only family to return to the village. Where the others had fled I did not know. Probably south, away from the whole region. They had likely lost all interest in watching the duel even from a distance. Now they wanted only to save their skins. We approached the village warily in the fading daylight. The blue sun winked out behind the edge of the world, leaving only the great bulge of the red. The mists rising off the distant swamps took fire from the glow. It was as if the whole western edge of the world were aflame. I could almost smell the burning of it, a smell of disaster on the evening wind. I left my wives at the nest and headed toward Shoogar's. As I made my way through the village I could see the many effects of his spellcasting. Here and there some of our proudest housetrees lay on their sides, as if they had been blasted out of the ground by great forces. Others seemed to have withered and died where they stood. Here and there a nest lay on the ground, shattered walls laying it open to the elements. Everywhere were great patches of dying vegetation. The scavenger animals were gone. There were no sounds of nightbirds. Except for my wives, myself and, of course, Shoogar, the village was empty. And dead. Even if Shoogar won the duel no one would ever be able to return to this village. Nor would anyone want to. Its stability had been permanently destroyed. All was silent and brooding. The dead grass crunched under my feet as I approached Shoogar's nest. I knocked cautiously on the wall. When he appeared I gasped in horror. Shoogar had gone gray and haggard. New circles had appeared under his eyes and his skin was discolored here and there with angry red patches as if he had been caught too close to one of his own spells. But what startled me most was that Shoogar had shaved off all of his fur. He was totally naked and hairless -- a frightening caricature of the mad magician. He greeted me with a wan smile, grateful for my company. I began to lay out the ritual supper for him. It is traditional that on the night before a duel, the men of the village serve a meal of faith to their patron warlock. But the others had fled, so that duty had fallen on me alone. I stood silently by and waited, no serving him at each gesture or grunt. It was not much of a meal but it was the best I could prepare under such circumstances. Shoogar seemed not to mind. He ate slowly, savoring every bite. He looked tired and his hands trembled as he moved. But he ate heartiiy By the time he laid aside his bone food-stabber the red sun had long disappeared from the west. The moons had not yet appeared. He moved slowly. But whether from satiation or exhaustion was impossible to tell. "Where are the others?" he asked. "They've fled." I explained what happened. Shoogar listened carefully, occasionally picking at some previously overlooked morsel in the bowls before him. "I did not expect the stranger to move," he muttered. "It is a bad thing -- but clever. Now I must alter my spell to account for this new factor. You say he tried to talk to the women?" He bit into a fruit. I nodded. "My number-three wife." Shoogar spat out seeds in disgust. "The man must have no taste. If one were going to lower oneself to talk to women -- one should at least choose the woman of a worthy rival." "You have no women," I pointed out. "It is still an insult to me." IF "Perhaps he does not know any better. Remember, he said that the ways of his homeland are very different from ours." "Ignorance could be the excuse for his bad manners," Shoogar grumbled, "but only madness could explain the man's trespasses against common sense." "It is said that a madman possesses the strength of ten." Shoogar gave me a look. "I know what is said. Most of the time it is I who said it first." We sat in silence. After a while I asked, "What do you think will happen on the morrow?" "There will be a duel. One will win, one will lose." "But who?" "If it were possible to tell who will win -- there would be no need for duels." Again we sat in silence. This was the first time Shoogar had referred to the duel with any indication of doubt. Always before he had expressed confidence in his own abilities and skepticism for the powers of Purple. But now he would not even venture to say what the outcome of the duel would be. I feared for my friend. "Lant," he said abruptly. "I will need your help." I looked up startled. "Me? But I know nothing of magic. You have told me countless times that I am a fool. Is it wise to risk such an important undertaking in the hands of a -- " "Shut up, Lant," he said softly. I shut. "All you have to do is help me transport my spell-casting equipment up the mountain to Purple's nest. We will need two bicycles or some pack animals. I cannot carry it all myself." I breathed easier. "Oh, well, in that case -- " We were on our way within the hour. reached the site of the encampment. The deserted lean-tos and shelters stood bleak and empty in the night, like some fearful city of the dead. I found myself trembling. We rode through it wordlessly, finally parking our bicycles on the slope just below the spring. We could hear it babbling carelessly in the dark. Taking care to keep as quiet as possible, we edged forward, up the hill. I held my breath till we topped the rise, let it out in a whoosh. Yes, the nest was still there. I believe I would have cried bitter tears had it been gone. I am sure that to have lost his enemy would have killed Shoogar. The frustration would have been too much. We crept back to the deserted encampment, there to wait the coming of dawn. I ached for a chance to sleep but Shoogar gave me a potion to keep me awake. To keep him company, he said. He began laying out his equipment, organizing and sorting. "If I can only take him by surprise," he muttered. He paused to oil a metal knife. "And if only there were some way to draw him away from his nest -- " "That's not needed," I blurted. "He will probably leave it by himself. He is testing again. He said this when I spoke to him. He wants to test the mountain." "This is a bit of good fortune. I hope that he tests the mountain the same way that he tested the village -- for when he tested the village he was gone from his nest almost the entire day." IF "What if he doesn't? What if he returns before the curse is finished?" "Let us hope he does not." "Can't you do something?" Shoogar paused, thought for a moment, then rummaged in his kit. He produced a small leather pouch of dust and another of herbs. "Here, go and spread this dust around the outside of his nest. It is very fine dust; It will float in the air for hours. If he breathes any of it, it will produce a very strong yearning in him. He will not return until that yearning is satisfied." "But what about me?" "When you finish with the dust you will take half of those herbs and chew them well. Swallow them -- when they turn bitter in your mouth but not until they turn bitter. Bring the rest of the herbs back to me, so I may chew them. They will make us both immune to the power of the dust." I nodded, then crept up the hill and did as I was instructed. When I brought the two leather pouches back to Shoogar he was just laying out the last of his equipment. One swollen pouch he handled most carefully. "Powdered magician's hair," he explained. I did not blame him for handling it carefully. He had sacrificed much to produce it -- his squat and shaven body trembled with the cold. Abruptly a troubled look crossed his face. "I am sure that Purple's power is in some way connected with his nest. I must get into it somehow. That is the only part of my curse that I am in doubt about. I must get into that nest." I said, "Today -- I mean, yesterday (for dawn was fast approaching) -- I was able to get close enough to Purple to observe him working his doorspell -- " I explained I had seen a pattern of bumps on the nest wall. Purple had tapped at them in a certain way and the door had slid open. Shoogar listened carefully. "Obviously the order in which he touches the bumps is the way the spell is controlled. Think, Lant. Which bumps did he touch?" "That I did not see." Shoogar cursed, "Then why bother to tell me how to open the door if you do not know? Lant, you are a fool." "I am sorry -- but it happened so quickly. If I could only remember -- " "Lant," Shoogar asked, "have you ever been placed under the spell of the open mind?" I shook my head. "It is a spell of great power. It can be used to make you remember things that you think you have forgotten." "Uh, is it dangerous?" "No more so than any other spell." "Well," I said, picking up my bicycle. "Good luck with your duel, Shoogar. I will see you when it is -- " "Lant," he said evenly. "If you take one more step downslope I will work your name into the curse along with Purple's." I laid the bicycle down again. fearful. I will do my best to protect you. Suddenly you have become a very important part of this duel. The knowledge locked up in your mind may make the difference between success and failure." "But, Shoogar, I am a fool. You have told me that too many times for it to be otherwise. I admit it. I am a fool. You could not be wrong in your judgment of my character. What good could I be to you?" "Lant," said Shoogar, "you are not a fool. Believe me. Sometimes in my quickness of temper I have made rash statements. But I have only the greatest respect for your judgement, Lant. You are not a fool." "Oh, but I am," I insisted. "You are not," Shoogar said. "Besides, it does not take any great mental prowess to remember something as simple as you have described. Even an idiot such as you could do it." "Oh, but I will only be in your way, Shoogar. Please let me return to my family -- " "And have the other men of the village think you a coward?" "It would be small burden to bear -- " Shoogar snapped, "No friend of mine shall wear the brand of coward. You will stay here with me, Lant. And you should be grateful that I care so much for you as a friend." He turned again to the equipment laid out upon the ground. I sighed in resignation and sat down to wait. Dawn was already seeping into the east. Shoogar turned back to me. "Your part in this will be easy, Lant. There is no reason to fear." "But the danger -- " "There will be no danger if you follow my instructions exactly as I give them to you." "I will follow your instructions." "Good. There can be no room for error. Even the tiniest mistake could cost us both our lives." "But you just said there would be no danger." "Not if you follow instructions. Most of the hard work has already been done. Don't forget, I had to construct the equations -- I had to prepare the ingredients and stabilize the symbology necessary to make the various incantations and potions work. All you have to do is help me place them in the proper place at the proper time." "I thought all I had to do was help you open the nest -- " "Of course. But if you are goIF ing to be there anyway, you might as well help me with the rest." "Oh," I said. "And whatever you do, you must not try to speak to me. This is very important. When the suns rise we shall begin -- and once we begin I must not be distracted at all. Except as is necessary to the curse I will not speak. Do you understand?" I nodded. "Good. Now listen. There is one more thing. A very important thing. It has nothing to do with the curse, Lant, but for your own protection you must be exceedingly careful not to lesnerize." "Lesnerize?" I asked. "What is lesnerize?" But he did not explain. He pointed instead to the east. Day had seeped over the hills. Shoogar fell to his knees and began chanting to the suns. The curse had begun. T HE first step was a ritual cleansing. Then came the sanctification, the prayer for forgiveness, to the suns, Ouells and Virn, and to the moons, all eleven of them -- now in the configuration of Eccar the Man, who had served the gods so well that he had been elevated to godhood himself. Other prayers were offered to the river god, the wind god, the gods of violence and magic -- and, of course, to Elcin, the thunder god. We offered sacrifice to all of them, and sought their blessings in the endeavors to come. We prayed that they would blame the stranger and not us for the affronts about to be done to them. Then we cleansed ourselves again. We gathered up the spellcasting equipment and crept up the slope to where the mad magician's nest waited. Behind and below us themist thinned as the two moons rose higher. We could see for miles. We topped the rise slowly. Slightly below us, on the other side, was the black egg of Purple's nest, waiting grim and brooding in the silent morning. It was closed, but was it deserted? I wanted to ask Shoogar what the nest step was, but his last instruction made me fear even to breathe without being told. Shoogar must have sensed my indecision. He said, "Now we wait." The suns rose higher in the sky. The last of the mists disappeared from the land. And the egg sat silent on the steppes. The only sound was the gurgling of the spring. Abruptly the door of the nest slid open and Purple emerged. He stretched slowly, took a deep breath, let it out with a sigh. I wondered if the yearning dust was still floating in the air. If so, Purplehad just filled his lungs with it. He showed no reaction as he closed the door of his nest behind him. If the dust was working it was very subtle. We held our breaths as he began to climb up the slope of the hills. Shortly he disappeared over the top of one and we were alone with the nest. Shoogar scrambled eagerly for it. I followed in his wake, not quite as eager. Shoogar surveyed the nest carefully. He strode around it three times, finally coming to a stop in front of the oval outline that was the door. This first important step was the crucial one. Shoogar positioned me in the exact spot I had occupied when I saw Purple open his nest. Then he began to cast the spell of the open mind. He brought out a device of glass and held it before my eyes, commanding me to look into it. the past three days had been too much for my friend. I saw no answers within the device of glass. But I did as he said and looked into it. He began chanting at me softly, slowly, in that deep and croaking voice of his. I tried to concentrate on the sound but the crystal thing kept flickering light into my eyes. Nor could I focus my sight upon the thing. It seemed to fade in and out of existence even as Shoogar held it. I tried to follow where it went when it disappeared but could not. The sound of his chanting wove in and out with the flashes of light and all of it together seemed to be whirling and twirling, churning and turning and... the world was... Abruptly I was wide awake. Nothing had happened. Had the spell of the open mind failed? It must have. I remembered nothing. I opened my mouth to speak but Shoogar stopped me. "You did fine, Lant. Just fine." I wondered what he was talking about but he was once more fussing with his equipment. His manner was confident, almost cheerful. He found what he was looking for, a piece of chalk, and proceeded to draw a rune about the square pattern of bumps beside the door. Only once did he speak to me. "You told me almost all of what I need to know, Lant. Almost all. The rest I will fathom for myself." I shrugged and sat down to watch. Obviously he knew what he was doing. He sat cross-legged before the door and began chanting, working himself into a trance. He sat motionless on that patch of ground before the door, the only sounds his thin reedy chant and the gushing of the spring. The suns crept up the sky, Ouells glowing like a blue-white diamond at Virn's fading edge. So much to do, so little time! How long would Purple be gone? Could IF we complete the spell in that time? Shoogar sat silent and unmoving. His eyes were glazed. Occasionally he would give a little grunt. Could Purple throw red fire at a man? At last, when I had begun to fear that Shoogar would never speak again, he rose, stepped to that pattern of bumps and touched four of them in a particular pattern. Nothing happened. Shoogar repeated the touch. Still nothing happened. Shoogar shrugged and returned to his place. Again he went into his trance. This time, after an even greater wait, he approached that door even more cautiously. Once more he tapped out a pattern on the bumps -- the same four, but a different order. Nothing happened again. Shoogar sighed and returned to his squatting position. I began to fear that we might spend the whole day just gaining entry to Purple's nest and have no time left for the cursing. Indeed, I had almost given up all hope of ever completing the task before us when Shoogar rose again. He approached the nest slowly, looked at the bumps for a long time, then touched four of them in a carefully precise manner. And the door to the nest slid open. smile -- but only a small one. There was still much to do. Quickly we gathered up the equipment and moved into Purple's nest. The walls themselves glowed with an odd-colored light -- bright and yellow, it made my eyes see colors that were not there. Slowly, as my vision sorted itself out, I began to see that this nest was furnished like no other nest I had ever seen. All around were tiny glowing eyes, raised knobs and more bumps like those in the pattern outside the door. In the center was a zig-zag piece of padded furniture, a fit couch for a demon. Set into the nest wall just ahead of this were a series of flat plates like windows but infinitely more transparent -- like hardened air. Indeed, the whole nest showed workmanship finer than I had ever seen. Shoogar peered carefully at the fiat plates like windows. Some showed images of the areas around the nest. Others held odd patterns in colored light, carefully drawn lines and curves -- obviously the demon's runes. Shoogar indicated one of these. "Dq you still think he does not use magic?" he asked me -- then, remembering his own injunction against unnecessary chatter, silenced himself. Apparently it was not a very strong injunction, for Shoogar had been muttering back and forth all morning. Perhaps he had only warned me against speaking because he feared I would distract him. Well, he need not have worried; I have too much respect for Shoogar's abilities to question him in the middle of a spell. I opened my mouth to tell him so but he cut me off. Next to the padded thing was a plant, a vegetable well suited for the interior of this nest. It, too, was of a type I had never seen. It was the shape of a white rose but its color -- the leaves were a brilliant shade of -- could such a color be green? I could not believe my eyes. Green is a dull color, almost black; but here it seemed to glow as brightly as any shade of red or blue. I touched the plant, expecting it to be as delicate as any I was familiar with; but here too I received a shock, for the leaves were as stiff and hard as an uncured hide. What a strange world Purple must come from, I found myself thinking -- abruptly, realized that I had fallen into a trap. Obviously this was some plant that ordinarily would have been familiar to me. Purple had simply cursed it. I turned my attention away, began to look for a door leading to the area above. There was none. Apparently the nest included only this one compartment. The rest of its huge interior must be all spell devices. Shoogar had been right all along. Shoogar had spread his travel kit and his equipment on the floor and was methodically organizing the materials he would use first. It was as if he cursed flying nests every day. Abruptly he paused, put a finger into the stubble on his chin and scratched. He began to examine a piece of parchment he took from his cloak -- a checklist. "Yes," he decided after a brief pause. He pulled out the metal knife that I had seen before. "We will begin by defiling the metal." He spat on the knife, then began to carve runes into the surface of the floor. Or tried to. The knife would not penetrate. Frowning, Shoogar pressed harder. The tip of the knife broke. Then the blade snapped in half. Shoogar returned the pieces of the knife to his travel kit without comment and looked at his checklist again. This time he pulled out a pouch of reddish powder, 'the dust of rust. He emptied a bit of it into his hands and blew. A smoky red cloud filled the room. I coughed and he threw me an angry glance. A whirring sound started somewhere. Then a wind blew through the nest, plucking at my hair and clothing. I looked around in fear -- could Purple have trapped the wind god? Even as I looked for traces of such a thing, the reddish dust in the air thinned. Shortly the wind stopped, and the dust was gone with it. There was not even a fine red layer on any of the polished surfaces. Odd. IF Still Shoogar was undismayed. He consulted his list again. Abruptly he produced a ball of fire from under his robe. Then another and another, throwing them. They struck the interior of the nest, sending up acrid sparks and oily smoke. and jets of water spat from apertures in the ceiling. They aimed themselves straight at the fireballs, drenched them to ash in seconds. And then, as Shoogar produced a last fireball from under his robe, they all turned on Shoogar. When the water went off Shoogar turned his hand over and allowed the drenched fireball to drop stickily to the floor. Dripping, he held up his sodden checklist and consulted it again. Water dripped from it onto the floor, then drained away into places we knew not. I felt my hopes draining away with the water. Shoogar had begun three separate attempts -- and all of them had failed. The stranger's magic was much too strong. We were doomed even before we had begun. "Ah, yes--" said Shoogar. "It goes well." I doubted my ears. I dared a question, "Well?" "Obviously, Lant, you have not been paying attention. The nest is equipped with very efficient protective spells. I had to find out what they were, so that I could nullify them. Now let us curse." Shoogar began by inscribing runes on all the surfaces of the nest, floors, walls ceiling, the back of the oddly shaped couch, the panels of knobs, everything. He called upon Fineline, the god of engineers and architects, to blast this nest with a spell of deformity to make it crack and shatter. Onto each of the sacred signs, inscribed with chalk instead of knife, he dripped small portions of several different potions. As they combined they began to smoke and sputter. "Waters of fire, burn and boil," Shoogar urged them. We watched as the fluid ate holes into the runes and surface below. Beautiful. Blasphemy is the heart of a good curse. Next he began to fill the ship with dust. Apparently he wanted to overload the spell of the protective wind, for he blew great clouds of the red dust of rust. The whirring started up immediately but Shoogar kept blowing. "Well, don't just stand there, you goat -- help me." With my help we were able to keep great swirling clouds of rust swirling and churning throughout the entire compartment. The dust of rust is a symbol of time, sacred to several gods at once: Brad of the past, Kronk of the future and Po who causes the decay of all things. When we had run out of the dust of rust, Shoogar continued with a fine white powder. It looked like the grindings of bone. "Aim for those wind pockets," said Shoogar, pointing at a square, screened-over opening. Eyes streaming, coughing vigorously, I did so. Once Shoogar hurled a fireball at the screen, where it stuck. Water jetted briefly, splashing through the screen. Some of the grindings gathered around the water droplets. Presently the whirring became uneven, threatened to stop. "Cover your nose and mouth, Lant. I do not want you to breathe any of this." He pulled out a fat leather pouch. I put a cloth across the lower half of my face and watched as he produced a thick double handful of powdered magician's hair. With a care bom of great sacrifice he aimed cautiously and blew a great sneeze of it toward the wind pockets. Within a moment, it was gone. The whirring sound labored -- the wind seemed to be dying. Suddenly both stopped. "Good, Lant. Now get the pots." Shoogar was beaming with triumph. I pulled my kit from its place by the wall and produced a collection of six pottery containers, each with a close-fitting lid. "Good," said Shoogar again. He began to place them carefully around the interior of Purple's nest. Into each he put a sputtering ball of fire, then closed the lid on it. There were tiny holes in the lid of each pot -- to allow the fire-god to breathe but too tiny to allow entrance of the water. The liquid jets arched out but, unable to reach the flames directly, they continued playing over the pots and over everything else. Shoogar watched to see where the water was draining, began pouring defiled water and other viscous syrups into the drain holes. Once he paused to add a generous handful of the white dust bone grindings. As it swirled down into the drain, the mixture seemed to thicken ominously. Shortly it seemed as if the drains were not working as efficiently as they had at Tirst. The water was gathering in pools on the floor. The odious smell of the defiled water mixed with the hot, steamy, smoky air. I thought I would retch. But no matter, the defiled water would certainly anger Filfomar, the river god. By now, Filfo-mar and N'veen, the god of the tides would be engaged in their ancient tug-of-war. Only this time they would be tugging not at the waters of the world, but at opposite sides of the black nest. The more water that poured into the cabin, the stronger grew their powers -- and the more vicious their battle. By the time the water jets IF stopped hissing, we were several inches deep in water and Shoogar and I were both dripping wet. But not chilly. The nest was steaming hot and growing hotter. Shoogar shucked off his robe and I followed suit. My eyes were watering and I was still coughing up dust from my lungs. I pointed this out to Shoogar. He said, "Stop complaining. Nobody ever said a curse was easy. There's more to come yet." Indeed, we had only begun. Now Shoogar turned his attention to the various panels and plates that lined the interior. There were a great many knobs and bumps. Many of these came in sets of eight, each labeled with a different symbol. One we recognized -- a triangle, the symbol of Eccar the Man. Could it be that some of Purple's spells were based on the symbol of Eccar? If that were so, could Shoogar use that fact as a wedge, his lever with which to unbalance the rest of the spells of Purple's nest? Shoogar pursed his lips thoughtfully, scratched at his stubbly chin. "Push the bumps, Lant. Wherever you see the symbol of the triangle, push the bumps -- we will activate all of Purple's Eccar spells and dissipate their power." compartment, looking high and low for the knobs and bumps. The knobs could all be twisted so that the triangle would appear at the top and the bumps could all be depressed. There were blank knobs also -- with a little experimentation Shoogar found that these could be turned in such a way that tiny slivers of metal behind layers of glass would move and point to triangles etched there. Several times strange thingshappened, but Shoogar cautioned me to ignore them. Once, one of the flat mirror-like plates glowed with an unearthly light and images appeared on it -- images of the village, images of people we knew, images of Hinc and Ang and Pilg. I stared in fascinated horror -- and then Shoogar nullified the spell by painting over it with a thick gray potion that obscured the image entirely. "I told you not to look," he reproved me. We continued. Eventually we had turned every device in that nest to the symbol of the triangle. We began the next phase of the curse. The pots had begun to cool, so Shoogar replenished them. Already the metal where they sat was too hot to touch, and portions of other devices had begun to crack. Now Shoogar began painting his thick gray paint over everything. First he nullified all the image windows. Then he painted all of the dials overand all of the bumps. IF Only the gods would know what symbols had been activated. In almost no time the interior of that nest was entirely gray. Klarther, the god of the skies and seas, would be furious. Fol, the god of distortion, would be chortling. Thus had Shoogar brought them to battle with each other over the black nest. Shoogar began to sketch new runes into the painted surfaces, oblivious of their relation to the runes beneath. Where the upper and under surface conflicted the gods would engage in random battle. Always, when he could, Shoogar worked the name of Elcin, the thunder god, into the runes. Into a crevice between two of the surfaces of knobs and bumps, Shoogar pushed the narrow point of a sword-wand and called on Pulfnissin, the god of duels. Calling on Hitch, the god of birds, he broke eggs into three apertures. They sizzled angrily where they slid down -- for Shoogar was using the egg-shape image of the nest against itself. He continued chanting, calling on Musk-Watz and Blok, the god of violence; and at one point he even cast a rune defiling Tis'turzhin, the god of love, for love turned to hate can be the mightiest force of all. Shoogar consulted his checklist again and produced a container of dormant sting things and another of fungusoids and leeches. He brought forth things with barbs and things with claws and began scattering them about. Torpid though they were, some tried to attack us; but we were careful to place them where they were not immediately dangerous. And we had had the forethought to wear our thickest boots and gloves -- the fanged creatures could not cut through. As he called on Sp'nee, ruler of slime, Shoogar spread great viscous gobs of goo into cracks and crannies between the boards of knobs and bumps. The air was already unbreathable with heat and damp but the boards were far hotter. In places Shoogar's gray ointment had blackened and cracked. The surface beneath glowed red with heat and gave forth a stench that one could hardly bear. Eggs sizzled and smoked in places we could not see. And always Shoogar continued to call upon Elcin. The God of Thunder. The God of Fear. "Elcin, oh, Elcin! Come down, oh, great and tiny God of lightning and loud noises! Come down from your mountain, oh, Elcin. Come down from your mountain and strike down this infidel who dares to profame the sacred name of your magic." It seemed as if we had been working for days. Shoogar continued to hang his webs of pain and to paint his runes of despair. The swimming, heated compartment crawled with fuzz balls and stingers, crabs and krakens and leeches. Somewhere something was burning and oily smoke seeped up the walls. I choked on the rotting air and blinked the tears from my eyes. It was a masterpiece. IX the nest eagerly. The dry grass crunched under my feet as I dropped to the ground. It seemed as if we had spent days in that Shoogar-generated hell. I was amazed to find that it was still day. The double sunlight washed the world with a reassuring familiarity. The trees and plants and grass still had their familiar dull black hues. My head swam in the cool clear air -- waves of dizziness swept over me. Even so, it was I who had to help Shoogar to walk. I had only observed the curse. Shoogar had executed it and it had taken its toll of his strength. We moved unevenly down the slope. Our shadows wavered before us, fringed with red and blue edges. As the curse had ended, so had the conjunction. Once more the suns were separate. It seemed a miracle that Purple had not interrupted us but it was still only mid-afternoon. We had finished with time to spare. We collapsed behind a clump of bushes. The unfouled air was like strong quaff and I was drunk on it. We lay under the familiar black leaves, taking deep heaving breaths. After a while I rolled over on my side and looked at Shoogar, "When does it begin?" He didn't answer and for a moment I thought he had fallen asleep. It would not have surprised me. The exertions of the past days had left him pale and haggard. His eyes were red and rimmed with deep circles when he opened them. He sighed. "I don't know, Lant. I don't know... perhaps I forgot something." I sat up and looked uneasily at the black nest. It waited there in a hollow between two hills, its door invitingly open. Its door! "Shoogar!" I cried. "The door! We left it open!" He sat up suddenly, stared horrified across the hill. "Can we close it?" I asked. "It must need another spell for that," said Shoogar. "And we don't have it." "Couldn't you -- " "Couldn't I what?" he demanded. "Make up a door-closing spell? Not for that nest, I couldn't. I'd have to know what activates the door-opening spell first." "But I saw you open the door." "Lant, you are a fool. I know how to use the spellbut I do not know why it works as it does. You saw what trouble I had with the light device. No, Lant -- unless you know something else about the IF way that door works -- and I know you don't, for I peered into your mind -- it's going to stay open." "But the curse -- " He cut me off with a gesture. "I don't know -- it must be waiting. It needs something to activate it, probably the closing of the door. Without that -- " He shrugged, let the sentence trail off into silence. The suns crept westward, the blue now visibly ahead of the red. I peered uneasily across the hill. How long would that curse wait before it went bad? Only the gods could help us if this, the greatest of Shoogar's spells, were to go foul -- and if it did go foul there would be no gods left who could help us. They would all be against us. ened -- the chill of the dying day crept across the world while Shoogar and I stood helplessly by. The black nest waited, grim and forbidding. Yellow light poured from its door. The world waited. We waited. The nest waited. The curse waited. And then, abruptly, a sound. Footsteps crunching up the side of the hill. We dropped down behind the bush. Purple came into view seconds later, striding up over the rise -- I wondered if he had satisfied his yearning -- then down the slope toward his waiting nest. He could not see the open door from his direction of approach. He rounded the curve of the nest wall and stopped. Then he stepped hurriedly forward and peered within. For the First time we saw Purple react to Shoogar's magic. He screamed like a hunting bansheebat. No doubt a translation would have been most instructive but the speakerspell was silent. Purple clambered into the door. The jamb caught him across the forehead, knocking the glass appurtenances from his nose. We heard his voice from inside the nest -- great anguished cries, hardly recognizable. Occasional words would come from the speakerspell, booming across the hollow: "My god in -- how did they get in? Stung me! Get off my foot, you son of -- why isn't the pest-killer working?" "The sting things are giving him trouble," I whispered. "God-damned sting things!" Purple's booming voice corrected me. "But the sting things are not the spell, Lant," Shoogar hissed. "They would sting whether they were part of the curse or not." Shoogar was right. The curse had not yet been activated. Anguished, I tore at my fur. What were the gods waiting for? Would they wait so long that Purple would have time to nullify the elements of the spell and turn it back on Shoogar? More words came hurtling across the slope: "Eggs! Eggs?" "At least you have ruined his composure," I whispered to Shoogar. "That's a beginning." "Not enough. The gods should be tripping over each other in their eagerness to destroy him. It must be the door. It must be! Lant, I fear -- " His voice stopped. I felt ice melting along my spine. "Savages -- " Boomed Purple's voice. "Primitive savages. This damned gray paint -- where the hell is the -- incest, lovemaking, illegitimate, compound incest, excrement excrement excrement, oral-genital contact, rectums, castration, diseases passed by lovemaking, primitive anal lovechildren! I'll kill the lovemaking offspring of dogs! I'll bum this lovemaking world down to bedrock!" Purple may have been incoherent but he certainly sounded sincere. I readied myself to run. I could see him moving about within the nest. He was stabbing furiously at the various bumps and depressions that we had painted over. Savagely Purple twisted the knobs, one after another, attempting to nullify Shoogar's spells. "And as for that fur-covered animal, Shoogar -- " The heavy curved door slid shut and cut off Purple's last howl. the leaves, the bushes and the cuffs of our robes. The shadows had lengthened until they stretched eastward into darkness. The blue sun twinkled and vanished, leaving only the bloated disc of the red. Below us the hills lay like folds of crumpled red cloth. All was deathly silent. Slowly Shoogar and I crept out of our hiding place. The black nest sat quietly in its depression. The door, closed now, was only an orange oval outlined on its smooth featureless surface. We edged forward, curiously, cautiously. "Has it begun yet?" I whispered. "Shut up, you fool. Every god must be listening." We moved closer. The black egg waited, motionless. Shoogar put his ear to its surface and listened. Abruptly the egg rose noiselessly into the air, throwing Shoogar back. I threw myself flat on the ground, began praying for forgiveness. "Oh, gods of the world, I cast myself upon your mercy. I plead to you. Please, do not let me -- " "Shut up, Lant. Do you want to foul the spell?" I lifted my head cautiously. Shoogar was standing, hands on hips, staring up into the red twilight. The black nest hung unmoving and patient a few feet above his head. I climbed wearily to my feet. As a curse, this spell was turning out to be a dull bore. IF "What is it doing?" I asked. Shoogar didn't answer. Abruptly the nest turned from black to silver and began sinking back toward the ground as gently as it had risen. The red dusk glinted across its surface with the color of blood. We stepped back as it touched the ground. It continued sinking downward without so much as slowing. Now, at last, there was sound, a churning crunching mutter of rock being forced aside. The nest moved downward, inexorably. The rocks screeched with the sound of its passage. In moments it was gone. The crackle of rock sank to a distant mutter, then died away entirely. Dazed, I walked to the rubbled edge of the hole. Darkness swallowed the bottom of it, though an occasional distant rumble of movement could be felt. I became aware of Shoogar standing beside me. meant anything more. "It's gone, Shoogar. Completely, totally gone. Disappeared into the ground. The world has swallowed it up as if it never existed. And -- " I gasped breathlessly -- "and there were no side effects at all." Shoogar harrumphed modestly. He bent to pick up the glass appurtenances which had fallen from Purple's nose. He pocketed them absent-mindedly. "It was nothing," he said. "But, Shoogar -- no side effects. I wouldn't have believed you could do it -- I wouldn't have believed anyone could do it. Why didn't you tell us you were planning this? We wouldn't have had to leave the village." "Best to be safe," Shoogar mumbled. He must have been dazed by his triumph. "You see, I wasn't sure. What with the tidal equations acting to pull the nest down instead of -- and with Eccar the Man tending to -- well, it was highly unusual -- experimental, you might say. I -- " The whole mountain shook under us. I landed jarringly on my belly, looking downslope. Two hundred feet below the black nest erupted out of the hillside. It was screaming with an unholy sound. We had hurt it terribly. The egg wailed its pain, arising, falling note, piercingly loud even as it moved away from the mountain. Some weird side effect had pulverized the very substance of the hill beneath us, turning it to sliding dirt and pebbles. The entire slope was sliding, shifting, carrying us majestically downward. Stunned, we made no move to save ourselves, nor was there anything we could have done had we had the presence of mind. We watched the black nest. Even as we slid, we could see it, a glinting speck of red brightness, shrieking into the south. The sliding mountain came to a stop. Whether from caprice or Shoogar's magic, it had not buried us. We had been fortunate enough to be standing at the top of the affected area. Now I found myself on my belly, deep in soft dirt. Shoogar was several yards away. I climbed to my knees. The black nest was no more than a dot above the horizon -- rising and dwindling, rising and dwindling. It was going almost straight up when my eyes lost it. I scrambled down the slope to Shoogar, each step creating tiny echoes of the bigger slide. "Is it over?" I asked, helping him to his feet. Shoogar brushed ineffectually at his robe. "I think not." He peered into the south. "There are too many gods who have not yet spoken." We were ankledeep in the newly pulverized dirt and would have to walk softly, lest the slope be jarred loose again. We began to work our way down cautiously. "How long must we wait for the curse to complete its workings?" I asked. Shoogar shrugged. "I cannot guess. We called heavily on many gods. Lant, I suggest you return to the village now. Your wives and children will be waiting." "I would stay here with you until the curse is complete." Shoogar frowned thoughtfully. "Lant, the black nest will probahly return to attack the one who injured it. I dare not return to the village until that danger is past -- and I would not want you here with me when that happens." He put his hand on my shoulder, "Thank you, Lant. I appreciate all you have done. Now -- go." I nodded. I did not want to leave him. But I knew that this had to be. Shoogar was not just saying good night; he was saying goodbye. Until he knew for sure that the black nest had been destroyed he could not return. Dejectedly I turned and trudged down the slope. I did not want him to see the tears welling in my eyes. X The village was as I had left it. Silent, deserted and bearing the scars of Shoogar's preparations. I had been fortunate to find one of my bicycles halfway down the hill. Now I parked it beneath my own nest. Miraculously, both bicycle and nest were undamaged. My number-one wife was curled up on the floor, sleeping, when I hoisted myself into the nest. She awoke at the swaying of the structure and rubbed the sleep from her eyes. "Where are the others?" I asked. "Two and Three and the spratlings?" She shook her head. "They fled when Purple came to the village this morning." IF I was aghast. "Purple came to the village?" She nodded. I seized her by the shoulders. "You must tell me what he did. Did he curse Shoogar's nest? Did he -- " "No, it was nothing like that. He just walked around for a while." "The fire device? Did he use the fire device?" "No. He wanted something else." "What was it, woman?" "I cannot say if I understood right, my husband. He did not have his speakerspell with him. We had to use gestures." "Well, what did he want?" "He wanted to do the familymaking thing. I think." "And you let him?" She lowered her eyes. "I thought it would help Shoogar's part of the duel ifthe mad magician were distracted for a while." "But how could you? He is not a guest of ours. I should beat -- " "I am sorry, my husband. I thought it would help." She cringed before my upraised hand. "And you did not beat number three when Purple talked to her." She was right. I lowered my hand. It would not be fair to beat one and not the other. "He is built most strangely, my husband. He is almost completely without hair, except for -- " "I do not want to hear about it," I said. "Is that all that you did?" She nodded. "And then he left the village?" Again she nodded. "He did not touch anything? Take anything?" She shook her head. I breathed a sigh of relief. "Thank the gods for small favors. The situation could have been very bad. Fortunately you say nothing was damaged." Gratefully I lowered myself to the floor. I had not realized how weary I was. "You may serve me a meal." She did so, wordlessly. I had taken two bites when abruptly from overhead came a weird kind of shrieking whistle. It was a sound of disaster, of emergency and panic. I dropped out of the nest and ran for the clearing. Through the treetops I could see -- The flying nest! It had returned to the village. It was no longer silver. Now, it was yellow with heat. It hurtled across the sky, circled and returned for another shriek'ing pass. Shoogar's words flashed across my mind... the black nest will probably return to attack the one who injured it... Could the nest have confused me with Shoogar? I stood in the central clearing, too panicked to move. It stopped jarringly a few yards above the treetops, as if it had hit a soft wall. Its door was missing, ripped away. The opening showed black against the orange glow of what could only be super-heated metal. The empty opening turned, questing. I imagined eyes in the blackness behind the doorway. I waited for them to find me. The nest turned faster. Suddenly it was spinning. All details blurred and vanished -- the surface seemed a liquid red-orange. I heard the drone of it rising and I covered my ears. A wind swept through the trees. As it spun the nest was carrying the air with it. Great gusts rushed through the village with a rising shriek, different from the agonyshriek of the nest but terrifying all the same. A great whirlpool of wind formed the nest at its center. I clung to the trunk of one of the nearby house-trees. Was Musk-Watz attacking the stranger's nest? Or was the nest attacking the village? The wind roared through the trees, through the leaves and branches and nests -- it tried to pluck me from where I clung tightly to one of the rootlimbs. I wrapped my arms and legs about the branch and buried my face in the bark. Leaves, bark, bits of wood sprayed me. It went on and on and on. After a while I became aware that the sound was lessening. I raised my head. The wind was dying. Not a tree in the village carried a leaf. Every nest had been knocked to the ground. Many had been shattered against the trunks of their host-trees. Others lay yards from where they should have fallen. spinning, had moved southward toward the river. It was above the new course of the rushing waters when it began to drop. Filfo-mar, angry and implacable, was pulling the black nest down to destruction. I had to see. I followed the nest, unmindful of possible danger. I had to know if Purple's nest was truly being destroyed. The nest was spinning ferociously, as if it were trying to escape the power of the' river god. When it touched the water a great cloud of steam burst into the air. At the same time the river and its muddy banks all rose up in one huge wave of earth and water. It blackened the sky, covered the moons -- I tried to run -- it splashed across the world in one vast wave. A scream forced itself out of my throat as the rushing water swept me back through the village. Filth and mud flooded my mouth, my nostrils. Abruptly I was struck a jarring blow from behind, found myself caught between two limbs of a tree. Water rained down in fat IF drops and mud in stinging gobs. The water began to recede, flowing back toward the river in a great mud-streaking wave. Churning debris was left in its wake. Shoogar had miscalculated. The nest had not returned to attack him. Even now I could see that of the village nothing was left. Just a few blackened trees, naked against the night. I lowered myself from the branch. My back twinged warningly and I wondered if I had cracked a rib. I limped toward the river. If I were destined to die I would first know the fate of my enemy. Black mud squelched beneath my feet as I plodded. The bare trees dripped muddy goo. It was as if the whole world were uninhabitable, drowned in a rain of earth and water. It was tricky going -- often the viscous mess beneath my feet hid shards of debris. I was lucky not to have slashed open my foot. I slipped and fell several times. Here and there fish or mud creatures flopped in dying agony. Under the shadowless light of seven of the moons, I began to cross the old course of the river. The mud and the smooth wet rocks all worked to slow me. Probably they saved my life. I had forgotten that one god had not yet spoken. I cursed as I balanced on the slippery surfaces. The nest lay ahead. In its spinning, it had churned a great dish-shaped cavity for itself. As I topped the lip of that cavity, I saw the nest, black again and lying in shallow silvery water. Its spin had stopped and -- finally, finally -- it was no longer upright. It rested on its side with water pouring into the hollow around it, flooding into the doorway. Garish light reflected in that opening and across the surface of the water. No doubt that final tilt of the egg was the work of the god of engineers. Perhaps in his last moments Purple had finally believed in the power of Shoogar's magic. I worked my way closer, eyes open for one glimpse of the mad magician's body. Nothing could be left alive within that nest. I was not one quarter of the way down when the interior of the nest began to sparkle and flash. This was not the steady yellow which had lit the compartment earlier. This was a sick, sputtering sparkle, the color of lightning. I paused, unsure. The sparkling grew more intense. I could hear crackling sounds and the hiss of water turning to steam. I began to inch my way back up the mud slope. The nest was still dangerously alive. The blue flashing grew brighter behind me -- and then a thick puff of black smoke erupted from the gaping door. I reached the mud lip of the chumed-out saucer none too soon and dropped behind it. Cautiously I raised my head. The nest was making great flushing sounds. Water jetted from holes in its sides but more water poured into the open door. Soon I noticed something else. It was beginning to glow again. Dull red, bright yellow, incandescent white. Waves of heat rolled outward. I had to keep ducking down behind the lip of the bowl. Mud boiled around the nest. Purple's egg rotated itself upright -- and sank. It sank ponderously and majestically into water obviously too shallow for it. The water closed over it, boiling. Great angry bursts of steam came exploding up through the bubbling water. Light showed through the steam, dimming, brightening. The nest seemed to pause, as if wondering what to do next. It decided. out of the pond. It rose in a steep arc, glowing white, paused at the apex and fell back. It landed right in the middle of the village. Instantly it bounced, leaving a clutch of burning trees behind it. A hot wind fanned my face. The nest had forgotten how to fly. Now it moved by bouncing and it glowed with a terrible heat. Each time it struck it would give off an enormous spark and the land would bum. But only momentarily -- the village was too much a swamp to support a fire. And still the nest was bouncing. As it left the village, other patches of flame were spreading. They led in a straight line toward the mountains where Shoogar waited. The nest bounced uphill like a ball in reverse. I could see it, a glowing white speck moving erratically up the mountainside. Ultimately it disappeared behind a ridge. The wind followed it, crackling with the presence of the one god who had not yet spoken -- then it, too, faded. A semblance of calm crept over the landscape, the only sound the dripping of the water from the trees, the branches. I stood up and looked off across the black mud to where a pillar of greasy smoke still rose from the center of the village. Brushing at the mud which permeated my clothing, I wondered if my first wife had survived. I would regret it very much if she had not. She was a good woman, obedient and almost as strong as a pack animal. It occurred to me then which god had not yet spoken. I sat down. There was a slow and deathly silence now. Only the crackle of the mud, the hiss of water trickling into pits of melted rock disturbed the night. The wind died to nothing. The last of the moons was dropping toward the west. Darkness would soon be creeping across the land. It would not be safe to be about. Could Shoogar have been mistaken in this one aspect? After all, i He was an unpredictable god,  known to have fits of pique -- and e yet, also known to have failed s when most expected to perform, t Perhaps the experimental nature of f Shoogar's spell had not been ( enough to arouse him. t Behind me the sky began to hint at deep blue instead of black. I stood, cursing the stiff cold weight I off my clothes. J An eye-searing flash of light i filled the entire world. My eyes clenched in pain. But in I the after-image, burned into my skull, I saw a great ball of fire, like one of Shoogar's but magnii fied to the size of a mountain. Then my eyes could open, and I c saw a great rising mass of flaming cloud, a toadstool of red-lit fury --  fiery smoke standing up behind the mountains, reaching, evers reaching into the sky. I I was slammed backward, t slapped rolling across the mud as if struck by a giant sledgehammer t made of air. And the sound -- oh, the sound -- my ears seemed to cry z with the pain of a sound so great. # The sound of Musk-Watz earlier sweeping through the village had been only a whisper compared to  this. It was as if Ouells himself i had come to ground and clapped his mighty hands together. In the I sudden howling wind, the clapping i sound mutated into a continuous i rumbling thunder that rolled up  and down the hills. It grumbled and  rumbled, grumbled and rumbled across the world. It echoed and reechoed in a never-ending wave. I'm sure I continued to hear it long after it had actually died away. That great bass roar went on and on and on. Small rocks began to fall from the sky. Elcin had spoken. the crotch of two branches, beneath an uprooted tree. "Are you all right?" I asked, helping her to her feet. She nodded. "Good. Then find some bandage and tape up my ribs. I am in pain." "Yes, my husband." She began dutifully to tug at her skirt. I recognized it as one of her favorites. I put out my hand. "No. Do not tear that. Find something else. That is all you have left in the world. Keep it intact." She looked up at me, grateful tears flooding her eyes. "Yes, my husband" She paused and I knew she wanted to say something else but feared. "Go on," I urged. She fell to her knees, unmindful of the mud, and clasped fiercely at my hands. "Oh, my husband, I feared so for your safety. My heart is filled with such gladness at the sight of you -- I cannot bear it. I could not endure the thought of life without you." She kissed my hands, buried her face against my waist. I stroked the fur on the top of her head, mud-smeared though it was. It did not matter -- we were both soaked through. "It's all right," I murmured gently. "Oh, tell me it is, tell me. Tell me that the danger is over, that all is right with the world again." "Stand up, woman," I said. She did. "I have lost everything. My nest is gone and my tree has been uprooted. I know not where any of my children are, nor where my other wives have fled. I have nothing. Only the clothes I am wearing. But I am still not a poor man." She looked at me, brown eyes wide with wonder. "No, I am not. I still have one woman, a good woman." I looked into her eyes, wide and glowing with love. "A woman with a strong And it is enough. I can rebuild. Now, go and find that bandage. My ribs ache with the pain of standing." "Oh, yes, my husband. Yes." She began moving cautiously across the mud covered landscape. I lowered myself carefully to the ground. To rest. To sleep. searched through the mud to see if anything of value remained intact. We found little. I had hoped to recover my bicycle but it had been smashed under a falling tree. I ached to see that finely carved machine crushed to sodden pulp. Truly, I had been right when I had said that we had nothing but the clothes on our backs. We stood in the ruins of the village and surveyed the disaster. "What will we do, my husband?" "We will move on," I said to her. "There is nothing left for us here." I turned and looked at the distant green prairie. "There." I pointed. "We will go south. Probably most of the others will have had the same thought." She nodded in acquiescence and shouldered her tiny pack. Painfully we started the long trek. The suns were high in the sky when we saw a single tiny figure on a bicycle hurrying to catch up to us. Something was familiar about it -- no, it couldn't be. But it was. "Shoogar -- you're alive -- " He shot me a look, climbed off the bicycle. "Of course, I'm alive, Lant. What did you think?" He paused, looked at the dried mud caked on our clothes. "What happened to you?" "We were in the village. We saw the end of Purple's nest. But it headed toward the mountains to die. We thought that -- " "Nonsense, Lant. I won the duel. Only the loser gets killed. I saw ( Please turn to page # ) IF mind follow? ran on, seeming to belong to no one, turning back on themselves, rubbing against each other, bidding him to remember but with no success. After only a little while life begins to accumulate like shellfish on a coral reef and a man begins to understand that if just one of few things were to be taken from him, then -- he'd have to live with the memory, the stain all over his insides and it would never go away. If it happens more than once you begin to look for an out -- but the outs are few and well guarded. # Why doesn't he wake up , doctor?" If I could die for only a little while, he thought. # I wish I knew. Where is the mind anyway? Is it just the physical, spatial organ called the brain?" # 'Doctor , you're not paid to speculate." "A patient like this is always a slap in the face." # I'm sorry. Doctor." I'm never going to die, he thought. After a little while the weight of living breaks you up into little pieces that the waves wash clean and take back with them into the sea. My ocean, my wings. For a time I lived as a man but I died and my corpse lies strangely rotting in the hold of a green ship I cannot find. Other corpses are there but determined to rot no further from their present state. There is no sun on my ocean, only a blue haze and no land of any kind. And the sea is filled with fleeing fear and rotting plants that come up from the shallow bottom. Once I saw a giant eel poke its head above the warm brine, but I could not fear it. My black wings keep me safe, he thought. Where is my green ship, lost for ages now? Racing low over the water I sometimes think it is only a foot long and I might have missed it a thousand times. I open my great bill and scoop up the dead worms that float near the surface... Once a dripping noise woke me in the night. ITell to the floor, into the center of the room where the pool of stuff had gathered. It was a black liquid and when I touched it the stuff stuck to my fingers. I looked up at the ceiling. There didn't seem to be any more on the way. It made me very angry because I knew there was more and it was holding back just to annoy me... # Perhaps he's trying to get back to what happened to him, and when he makes his peace with that, maybe he'll waken." # How long will it take. Doctor?" # For him, probably an epoch -- IF and for us there is no way to tell. Was he a good man?" " He was a good man, Doctor . " saying, "There are faint red stars close to the earth whose primarily infrared radiations are mostly absorbed by our atmosphere. No picture of the universe can be complete without them. The Farside Lunar radio telescope thinks it has located one -- and only two light-years away. Our new stardrive works and this will be its third test. Of course you will conduct scientific observations, take photographs, etc. But if all goes well, we will be ready to take larger hops out into the galaxy. Good luck, gentlemen." The voice did not sound convincing, he thought. He could not re : member who the speaker had been -- and where? He thought, the universe -- all space -- consists of the convolutions of some monstrous brain and I a phantom am set adrift in its passages. Strange thoughts drift within me, whispering that I am a dream. And at the moment when I am closest to the truth darkness veils everything from me. Speak, memory, he commanded but the darkness was again complete, inscrutable. Suddenly there were stars in the darkness, cold unblinking stars, a saw the fused mass of beryllium that had once been his ship. The ship tumbled and turned endlessly, a crumpled toy among the stars and he, a pale gray figure, floated near the wreck. He saw himself, a small suited mannikin with six hours of air stored to support its organic component. He felt sweat running down his back. His faceplate was fogged up -- the dials on the inside of his suit glowed dimly. Gradually the faceplate cleared, and he estimated that he was orbiting his dead ship once every minute. He remembered the explosion. It was still a splotch of light etched onto his brain as if he'd been shot full in the face with a laser. The stardrive generators had gone, a oretical models such an explosion would turn local space inside out and scatter anything caught in it throughout creation, a variable scatter across space and time. He had been outside taking three-dimensional shots of the dim red star when it happened. Suddenly the ship had turned blindingly white. The camera had been pushed out of his grip, the safety line had snapped and then a chunk of something had hit him in the middle. Maybe he had been lucky nothing had penetrated his suit. Impossible to tell good from bad, curse from blessing. Nothing he had ever known, guessed or been told was holding still. He looked at his transmitter dial. It was faithfully sending out the distress call -- three laser pulses into space every five seconds. To his right the red star glowed dimly. He knew that somewhere the star had a dark companion, a chunk of dead rock. If he and the ship were still anywhere near their previous course, they would pass very near to it. He knew what it would look like. The body would reflect almost no light -- he would notice it only by its capacity to blot out the starfields. He touched the small control box on his left shoulder and the small suit jets spun him around three hundred and sixty degrees. No dark body was anywhere in sight. He gave his jets a touch and stopped spinning. The stars stilled again in his vision. Silence, save for the sound of breathing, a metronome of rushing air keeping time in a timeless place. He tapped his helmet with his glove It was a relief to hear the contact. He looked at his oxygen meter. Its glow was dull inside his helmet. He had to twist his neck into an uncomfortable position to see it properly. Oxygen: # hr. # m. He closed his eyes and tried to control his breathing. He inhaled and counted to ten. He might be able to add twenty minutes to his life this way. But what did it matter? They would never find him, a tiny fragment among the stars. Better to have been in the ship -- no memories, no waiting, just a flash and oblivion. Oxygen: # hr. # m. The warm glow of the tranquilizer surrounded him and he slept. The horizon of the alien land in front of him was crimson. The sands reflected the bursting flames. And the tiger. Slowly tracking, back and forth. Waiting. For him. He awoke remembering. The tranquilizer made him sick and he vomited a little. The faceplate fogged and smeared. He couldn't see the stars. His scream hung inside the suit and couldn't get out. He swatted at the control box with his glove. The wreck receded suddenly and he was spinning. Slowly he managed to control the spin. He took another pill... He felt the numbness slowly spreading through his body. He swam, a god in his bath, smiling. Control. Sleep. He awoke. Ahead of him a great mass obscured the stars. It was the red star's planet, a dark wanderer waiting for his corpse. He strained to see if the dark mass reflected any of the red star's light but there was no light, only the dim circular outline against the starfield. Once this dying star had been strong enough to warm whole worlds. He turned himself to look at the wreck. It was a small, darkly silver patch of metal to his right and for an instant he thought he could reach IF out and then hold it in his hand. Oxygen: # hr. # m. When the wreck suddenly seemed to be obscuring stars more rapidly he knew that the dark planet was pulling them both in. He looked at the huge mass, a large black circle taking up almost a quarter of the sky. It looks like a neatly cut hole in space, he thought. I'm going to plow right into it and then the ship right on top of me. If I last long enough to experience it. And then he thought he could feel his forward motion, as the dark body grew larger in front of him. He pushed his suit controls and made a complete turn for observational purposes. At the end of his turn he saw the cluster of smaller dark bodies, bits of small debris circling the dim red sun. Oxygen: # hr. # m. The dark mass now covered a third of the sky. He looked down at a dark floor covered with sparkling diamonds. For a moment he thought they would blur into a sheet of light, but his eyes focused and the diamonds remained distinct. A bit of dust scratched across his faceplate, a cue that enabled him to imagine his terrifying speed. Oxygen: # m. Where had all the time gone? Suddenly he had to remember the good things in his life. He remembered her cool, smooth skin, her warm lips and long black hair. He would never kiss her again -- she would never be open to him, quivering with excitement. He would never see the child she would have. There was no longer a future, love, old age, only a lonely death in a dark place at the ends of the universe. He wouldn't even know if he would hit the dark planet or circle it forever. Oxygen: # m. It was getting harder to breathe. The dark planet now took up half the sky. He had once pressed a fly to death with a paperweight. He had always known that it would get back at him. He looked toward his fused ship It was tumbling wildly end over end. A piece broke off and passed a dozen feet to his right. Oxygen -- Empty The air became heavy and hot very suddenly. He turned the cooling unit to high. At least the bad air would be cool for a while. The tiger sprang at him from the dune and he fired and missed. It tore at his chest, opened it and seized his heart in its teeth. He screamed and watched the cat run off with it, chewing as it ran. The sun was hot on his open flesh. It burned. Momentarily a cool wind blew through his open chest. Then the abrasive sand got inside and stirred around in his lungs, forced its way down into his stomach and bowels. It ripped through his guts like a razor. The musclesin his calves tightened and turned to stone, refusing to relax. His arms stiffened and he couldn't move them. A demon was walking around in his head, beating against his temples, trying to get out, reaching down into his spine and twisting. Dark, dark, the dead star, the demon whispered and refused to let him go. He felt his eyes bulge out of their sockets. Helen! he tried to shout, but no sound came from his throat. I love you! The thought wouldn't come out of his head. It was stuck there, frozen. He had just run out of reality, the blank end of a reel of tape, all hiss and noise, running on into nowhere. He turned his radio up full blast. There was nothing on the wave spectrum but the mindless seething between the stars. " When the ships lifeboat found him he was like this," the doctor said. " And he didn't come out of it all during the eight month journey home under auxiliary ion power. His two crewmates had to feed him intravenously and he lost a lot of weight." soft water and he sank into it. Liquid rushed about his limbs. It flowed through his veins, nourishwith a great peace. He withdrew into the silence somewhere near oblivion. He thought of the dead portions of his body, hair, nails and skin, and of how gradually the living slipped into the nonliving. " He's developing a body fever " the doctor said as he looked at the diagnostic screen. " We're going to have to break it quickly." The woman sitting next to the bed leaned forward and looked at her husband's face. He seemed to be sleeping. She looked for some change but his face remained a mask. He was choking in the hot sand. Each grain burned him in turn and something grasped him by the head and twisted him in the sand as if he were a stick. The grains were abrasive and cut into him like broken glass. Suddenly the sand became cool and wet, enfolding him in its firm, damp comfort. Gradually his mind realized what had happened -- it came to him slowly. As a man wakens on a spring morning, he saw the way back. And he knew now that the green ship was no more, that the tiger did not make off with his heart and he knew that somehow he was alive, somewhere. He reached out with love toward the great mind that ruled the cosmos and gave thanks. When the fever's edge softened and turned his sickness to sleep he dreamed of fair women with golden hair and small breasts; he saw their firm bodies lying upon green grass. He slept. IF " Doctor , he blinked." At once he knew she was sitting next to him. She had called him back. The mind is everywhere, he thought. The brain lives in a spatio-temporal realm but the mind comes from elsewhere to stay only a short while, an exile from a greater community. He felt the light coming into his closed eyes, felt it moving along his optic nerve to his brain -- he wondered what kind of eye his brain must have to interpret such a signal? Then he understood that the brain's eye was only a window and through that window watched the mind's eye, the final interpreter, the arbiter of meaning. Its way was a special way of seeing, the way that made sense of everything that came through from a hostile universe of which it was a part. He thought, the mind develops its perceptual powers through experiential analogy with sense, data during life. Lacking sense data the mind spins out symbolic representations of the imperfectly perceived events going on around the locus of the brain in space. For him the Loss of life, of Flelen, would have been purposeless and unbearable, so, at the stress point where another man might have given up, his mind-matrix had flared up like a nova, a quantum jump to an unprecedented level of awareness and strength. The resulting field had enveloped the physical organ that was the brain and had preserved it from the decay that should have resulted when his oxygen ran out. This was the life-force that guided biological reproduction -- the mechanism that made life immortal while the individuals and even species perished; in his case it had preserved an individual. The force of his life-affirmation, the horror of death, the force of his will, had found for him the counter entropic force of all intelligent life and had preserved him until the others had found him floating in the darkness. But the gain was permanent. He could see, truly for the first time, as no man had seen before. Space was no obstacle; he could feel the emotions of those around him -- especially Helen's. They were as prominent as the corona of the sun during eclipse; he understood the darkness that covered her face. Slowly the darkness was passing from her face, revealing to him the light of her rising hope. He knew that this door of perception would now always be open to him. In the darkness of the dead star it had given him the meaning of his situation through the vision of the dreams. My ocean, my wings. He knew what they meant. With the thought came the full realization that he was alive, now more than ever. He remembered the torment of the ghostly worlds and knew that the terrible fear of death at the moment when his tanks had run out had driven him there -- into the arms of sirens. The fountain of life behind his dream of fair women had saved him and he knew what would happen now. He knew she was waiting for him like a ministering angel, listening and watching for a sign of life. An angel made for a man. "Helen -- " He said goodbye to the dark worlds within and opened his eyes to the bright light of day coming in through the window.  At the Carrousel Inn, #I Reading Road. Cincinnati, Ohio. Programless Relaxacon. Banquet. For information: Lou Tabakow, # St. Johns Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio #.  California. Guest-of-Honor: Jack Williamson; Fan Guest-of-Honor: Rick Sneary. Memberships: # through June #; # at the door. For inforDowney, California # I .  Chatham Center Motor Lodge, Center Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Guest-of-Honor: Harlan Ellison; GoH Emeritus: Robert Silverberg. Features: Panels, parties, movies, banquet. Membership: # in advance; # at the door. For information: Suzanne Tompkins, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #. Memberships: Supporting, #; Atgia #. Sheraton Hotel, Toronto, Canada. Guests-of-Honor: Anne McCaffrey, Isaac Asimov. Membership: # in advance. For information: Peter Gill, # Glen Manor Drive, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. AL. In Heidelberg, West Germany. The accent of this con will be an international one, with fans and pros coming from all over the world. Guest-ofTubb (England) and Dr. Herbert W. Franke (Germany). Memberships: # (supporting membership, receive all progress reports), # (attending); after December #, #, #. For Germany. Make all checks payable to Mrs. Molly Auler. IF ( Continued from page # ) ing are a commonplace," said Dr. Czento. "Most are spurious but a few are accurate. One such genuine landing took place on the sands of Nahrunu The British advisor to the Sheikh, a dear friend of mine, knew of the Sheikh's tablet and his claim to the planets. up the Tammuz Society, showed the tablet to our Sentient visitors and established agreement to the validity of our claim. The second tablet is our formal contract. What could have been a more suitable language than Sumerian?" "Are these Sentients simpletons?" I said. "Are they gulled by a quaint artifact of ancient times? Surely there's more to your deal than that? The dismantling and replacement of Mars, no matter what you say, is a treacherous job and a potential disaster if the slightest error occurs. They failed before? Why not now?" "They won't fail," said Dr. Czento. "You've no idea how brilliant they are." "And when the effects of the substitution begin -- with earthquakes, tidal waves and Godknows-what -- the hullabaloo here on Earth will be a fearsome thing. Someone will have to placate our scientists, our politicians, the great masses of people." "The Tammuz Society is made up of selected heads of state, Nobel laureates and distinguished businessmen," said Dr. Czento. "They are men influential in all areas of society." "Then that's what your payment is for," I said. "Not for the Shiekh's tablet." Dr. Czento's fingers began to tremble. "Did you kill Pendleton?" "You're as delusional as he was," said Dr. Czento. "He died of natural causes. You saw the death certificate." "Which you signed." "As a student," said Dr. Czento, "I played around with the properties of chloral hydrate. In moderate amounts it was a useful depressant of the central nervous system, although it caused nausea in some patients. I reduced chloral hydrate to a new form, almost tasteless, colorless and rather delayed in its insidious effects. It is a deadly but passionless killer and is almost impossible to detect on autopsy. I was sorry to be compelled to offer it to you." "You want me dead?" "Very reluctantly," said Dr. Czento. "You've drunk two glasses of it, so you're rather pn borrowed time. I dare say that you've already lost all sensation in your feet. Perhaps, even now, you can't raise your arms." Dr. Czento was s small man in his sixties and by no means athletic. Still, he was tough and wiry. But for some reason, after I got up and took violent hold of him, he offered little resistance. His eyes were wide and unbelieving all through the time I bound and gagged him. There was the same stunned look on his face as I telephoned to London and asked for a National Security officer to come out at once. I was terribly relieved when he finally arrived, almost two hours later. I tried to describe everything as precisely as I could and in complete detail until I noticed the white kid on the enameled pin in his lapel.  Starting next month in GA LA XY Robert A. Heinlein bhang-smoke and mumbled about the game and how it was just like the big game we were playing, and every time he took a pebble off the board he called it by name. And some of the names I didn't know but a lot of them were on my long list. And he talked about how we were like the pieces in this simple game -- how some went off the board after the first couple of moves, and some hopped from place to place all through the game and came out unscathed and some just sat in one place all the ( Continued from page #) time until they got zapped from out of nowhere. After a while I started hitting the bhang myself and we abandoned the metaphor in a spirit of mutual intoxication. And I've been thinking about that night for six years, or two hundred, and I think that N'gai -- his soul find Buddha -- was wrong. The game isn't all that complex. Because in O'wari, either person can win. The snails populate ten planets for every one we destroy. Solitaire, anyone? # when the black nest returned. It attacked the village instead of coming up into the mountains after me. If it was going to destroy the village anyway, there was no longer any reason for me to stay up in the hills. So I dug out the other bicycle." "The nest must have just missed you." Shoogar nodded. "I saw it coming. When it finished with the village -- only then did it go for the ( Continued from page #) mountains. Only I was no longer there." He shrugged modestly, brushed a speck of dirt from the sleeve of his robe. "It was nothing. I had planned so." There was nothing more to say. We watched as he mounted the bicycle again, once more began pedaling toward the south. I felt proud to know him. # little plan didn't work so good." "Seeing you again helped me remember," said Mary. "Well," said Screwloose, "no long-range harm done. We only have to fix up your mind again, Mary, and you'll forget all this nasty stuff. Your dad taught me how. I can do it." "No," said the girl. I asked, "Me, too?" Screwloose replied, "No, you we'll have to kill in some accidental looking way. I was hoping you'd get drowned at Stinson Beach. I only just tonight figured Mary might have come back here for sentimental reasons. Had I thought of it earlier I would have beat you to it. Again, gee, there's no real harm done. I know all ( Continued from page #) kinds of easy ways to kill people." The playhouse door opened quietly again and Pope dived in. He held a cross-shaped tire iron. His first swing knocked Screwloose's pistol away. Pope's next two blows were to the android's head and they caused him to fall back with an outflung jerking. "Gosh," said the android. He began a slow tumble down to the floor. He was making loud whirring sounds and oily smoke came from his nostrils and mouth. "The reason I was a ljttle late," said Pope. "I bumped into some landcars on the highway. It was a produce truck full of synthetic tangerines actually. I'd been trailing Screwloose since he left his place in Frisco. I lost him after the collision but figured he'd head here. I picked him up again at the gates. None of the alarms are working, by the way." "I turned everything off," said Mary, leaving the area of the teaching machines. "I don't like all that stuff much." "You just happen to be carrying a tire iron?" I asked Pope. "Actually," he said, rings forming around his wide eyes, "I had a flat tire, too. After one of the truck drivers kicked my car. That's what threw my timing a bit off." "Your timing was fine," I said. "This is Mary Redland, huh?" Pope asked, nodding at the girl. "You've been here hiding out?" "Not hiding out -- thinking, trying to remember. I wanted to remember everything. I wanted to remember what they had done to me," said the girl. "But I'm still not sure why they did it." "Because we loved you," said Screwloose. His head began to come apart.  Ejler Jakobsson? It turns out that he's just the most innovative editor in SF today. Thank God you've gotten rid of those ghastly beasts on the covers of If Thank God you're starting to publish a little adult fiction! (And I don't mean sex, either.) The Region Between and The Last Night of the Fesfine stories, too. But how much better as total visual experiences beyond just the words of them! Jack did a great job and  hope like hell that he does more. Good layouts like that really turn me on; good show, man! Anyhow, I am much much pleased with the direction that you're heading your mags. Bless you, sir, bless you. Harold G. Corwin, Jr. Edwards A FB, Calif # Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I want to add my voice to the commendations you have received for at (Continued from page #) last showing John W. Campbell thqt there is objection in the science-fiction world to his increasingly racist editorials. I suppose that there have been strong opinions for and against Vaughn Bode s strip. There is rather more violence in it than I care for, but in a world that includes the wars in Vietnam, Laos, Biafra, and the Middle East, it's difficult to get very excited about a Bode drawing. Sincerely yours, John Board man Brooklyn, N. Y. Dear Mr. Jakobsson:  just picked up the April issue of If and read Ride a Tin Can. Mr. Lafferty is completely and incurably insane. Sincerely, Scott Edelstein of my fellow writers of being overly fond of schmaltz in my reaction to some of the books reviewed here in the past. With strong exception to that "overly," I plead guilty to liking schmaltz and I make no apologies for it. But as a connoisseur of schmaltz, I am of necessity strongly opposed to the kitsch too often associated with it. Maybe a few quick definitions are in order. Schmaltz is a German-Yiddish word that means grease or butter; in the arts, it's the grease the artist uses to make his bread -- or more solid material -- go down easily. It is, in fact, the appeal to the reader's emotional response. Kitsch is garbage, trash, or any showy junk. Its use indicates a dishonesty, or an appeal to false emotionalism, snobbery, bad taste, etc. Where schmaltz is probably an exaggeration of a real emotion, kitsch is either a distortion or the use of unreal emotional responses. Almost all romantic fiction is essentially schmaltz; it has to be, since a sane vierw of it indicates our lovers can very well live without each other, no matter how much the feeling engendered in the reader is made to overlook this. Nevertheless, the emotional state of the lovers is based on reality and only exaggerated to make it seem more interesting. On the other hand, the stuff in too many confession magazines and the old teen-age lovepulps was pure kitsch; almost nobody is as idiotic as the heroines -- and if anyone were, she couldn't have achieved the ending falsely grafted onto the story. Most grand opera is also kitsch, though justified by the musical overlay. And, of course, the stuff called "camp" recently and appreciated at great effort by the phoney sophisticates had to be pure kitsch. Most of the best writers among the older practitioners of science fiction smoothed their plots with an admixture of schmaltz. And when it was that, without degenerating into kitsch, it was a lot more effective than a mere recital of the story events would have been. ten some really superbly schmaltzy stories. His Nicholas van Rijn was in the purest vein in the original novel; no man was ever exactly like him, yet the basic elements of his character were drawn from life. The old hero-villain obviously delighted the readers and Anderson has done a whole series of stories using him since then. Unfortunately, the latest doesn't have the oomph of the earlier ones. Anderson's Satan's World (Doubleday, #) has a generally ingenious situation and what might have been a good set of aliens and alienated humans to provide the menance. David Falkayn and his partners consult the giant computer of Serendipity, Inc. -- a very nice use of information as a medium of exchange -- to learn they have information of more danger than apparent value. This brings their boss, old van Rijn, into things, and the plot tangles busily thereafter. It's ingenious and the basic action is fine. But somehow, the pitcher seems to have been to the well too often. Van Rijn is as clev-. er as ever, but the tough, hard core of the man is lost somewhere under the mere cleverness and surface mannerisms. It never degenerates to kitsch, but it becomes ineffectual schmaltz, with the grease too obvious. And since the only use for schmaltz is its effect, it's hard to take when it doesn't produce. Clifford Simak is another master of the difficult trick of getting just the right and subtle blend of schmaltz and solid story material. Few writers can blend background, suspense and just the right touch of emotional appeal as well as he usually manages. His recent Out of their Minds (Putnam, #), however, has lost the touch, judging by my response. The basic idea is really fantasy. All the beliefs that man has accumulated in his superstitions throughout the ages have somehow fed into -- well, call it another dimension or plane -- and this energy has been creating the very things men have imagined. Now the myth-creatures are beginning to break through and trying to take over EaTth. It isn't too bad a situation. And in the early section, when his car is menaced by a dinosaur and when he isn't sure how his friend was killed in a collision where the other car disappeared, it begins to build up good suspense. IF But then the kitchen sink gets dragged in. He not only catches sea monsters and is chased by werewolves, but he meets Snuffy Smith and the comic-book world. He and a girl get trapped in a child's fairyland where he meets the devil; and he is cast back into the Civil War, where he spends a good bit of time. When he gets out of that he finds the world has been overtly attacked by the devil, who has stopped all electric apparatus from working. The devil expects him to be a go-between in negotiations with the President, and... It's simply too much, laid on too thickly. Myth-creation has run rampant. Goblins and werewolves were enough. But when we are asked to believe that men have believed in comic book characters and such for long enough and deeply enough to have turned them into myth-creatures at least as real as the devil, we boggle a bit. And when the civil war gets dragged in as a myth, it is too thick; true, our history does become somewhat of a myth in time; but only a small percentage of the total world population knows enough or cares enough to feed much creative data into the mythworld. Paul Bunyon would certainly be more likely than Pickett as a myth-figure. One form of kitsch results when the means used are excessive to a major degree for the effects needed. And here, I'm sorry to say the means are excessively excessive and the control of those means seems to have flown out the window. It's not pathetic kitsch (the trash of pathos , or untrammeled emotionalism), but its uncontrolled use of piling one thing on another is almost as bad. cery, fantasy or science fiction, tends to be somewhat schmaltzy. Howard's Conan was wonderful implicit schmaltz most of the time. (Implicit because Howard rather understated tne emotional response of his hero -- but still schmaltz because the romantic fix of his hero created such reactions on the part of the reader.) Most deliberate attempts to imitate Conan have been purest kitsch, of course. But the mixture of brawling and sorcery still offers a great field. Marion Zimmer Bradley has been mining this field rather well. Her latest, The Winds of Darkover (Ace Double, #c), is the seventh novel in the Darkover series. Here we have a world where the ancient inhabitants had substituted sorcery for science -- or call it psi, if you like; no difference. And there are pools of psychic power, or nexuscollections, which act as the old gods were supposed to act. It is essentially formula-fiction, of course. Our hero is an Earthman stationed on Darkover in the little Earth enclave. He loses his job because his mind is sometimes taken over by a ruler of a Darkover demesne. He is kicked out on a mission to help other natives, and his mind is more and more usurped until he becomes the ruler. Meantime, the ruler's sister must hie forth on her own mission to contact him and awake with him the power of one of the old and dangerous goddesses. The good of the story is that Bradley has made the formula her own; it works as she wants it to. or those who join me in enjoying the. schmaltz of good entertainment fiction, it's to be recommended. The other half of the double volume is The Anything Tree, by John Rackham. The tree here is apparently the ruler of a planet, and it has a rather limited mind but a great power to control growth; it can grow almost anything a man can ask of it -- and it can even alter his growth, or cause adaptations in his cells. The conflict comes when the powerful but uniquely innocent tree first contacts minds of evil. It isn't a story I'd recommend too strongly by itself, but it makes rather good reading. What more can be asked from a book frankly meant to be entertaining? Return to the Stars , by Edmond Hamilton (Lancer, #c), is a longdelayed sequel to his Star Kings. John Gordon, whose mind was transferred to that of a Prince of the far future who had to save the great Star Kingdom, is returned to that future in his own body this time, where he must meet in his own form the Princess he loved in another man's body. The basic situation here is ripe for all the schmaltz one could desire. Yet there is considerable control exercised -- as there has been in most of Hamilton's later material. No man has a longer history of writing the formula adventure story with all its inherent schmaltz than Hamilton; but the fact that he is still happily active after all these years is due to the skill with which he always treated his material. There is none of the tender reunion that would be so easily mixed with bathos. Instead, our lovely princess properly finds it hard to accept this man whom she never met in physical form before, and his attempt to understand is 'clouded by the fact that to him he is really no different. Nor does he immediately take over the saving of the Star Kingdom again; the menace this time is out of his hands at first -- because he's simply a friend of the great King, not being in the body of a Prince whose commands must be obeyed. It isn't the best of Hamilton's recent work; the job of going back and trying to recapture a world and attitude after having left it for years is a difficult one. And the limits he has imposed on himself in IF treating Gordon's abilities within reason make it harder to buckle a fine swash. But he does come up with a fine "villain" whose coritplexity was not fully revealed in the original story and who has att the charm we could want. It's fun to read, particularly if you've wondered whether Gordon could ever get back to his Princess. Fraction (Ace, #tf) seems at first to be based on a fairly standard situation. Men have colonized Arcon. Now, a few hundred years later, they find that the planet is at best marginally suitable for men. Certain factors in the ecology of Arcon have made senility and death the common lot by the age of forty and there is a risk that this lack of time for the individuals will make it impossible to maintain a civilization. But meantime they have destroyed their original spaceship, and their technology seems unable to build another. Politics has entered, too. The group who opposed settling Arcon and who later wanted to leave for another world are known as the Yellows and are considered the Enemy by the Blues and Greens. Arcon is actually ruled by a Security system designed supposedly to weed out dangerous Yellows. Len Thomas is kicked out of school for advocating what is termed Yellow policies. And then he discovers apparently that Security system is actually in the hands of the Yellows and that he is to be part of a small group sent to be trained for a voyage to another star in a spaceship being secretly built. However, the formula is being turned on its head by this time, and it becomes obvious to the reader that things are not at all as Thomas is first led to believe. Under all this, there is a rather ingenious set of political struggles and a well-worked-out solution to the problem of Darkover. Unfortunately, the writing is sometimes a little clumsy and the characters are less developed than the better-handled plotting deserves. Gordon could use a good deal of careful editing and some detailed editorial advice; he shows more than enough promise here to deserve such attention. This is a case where there is comparatively little schmaltz -- and where some could have been used most profitably. The love relation of Thomas and a girl being sent with him and the relations of the entire group deserve more emotional development. They are put in a damned good situation, but the dryness with which it is handed to us gives little more than a report of the events. The smaller bits, away from the group around Thomas, indicate that Gordon can sometimes capture the emotional feeling of the situation, and this makes it doubly unfortunate that some of the main events within the group going on the shipare handed to us with so little real emotional color. It's a somewhat annoying treatment of an interesting idea, but on balance the virtues are greater than the defects. be made on A Piece of Resistance , by Clive Egleton (CowardMcCann, #). This is not advertised on the jacket as science fiction, nor is it properly. Instead, it's one of those novels that takes place in the future simply because it can't be squeezed into the present. Yet, since the publishers felt it should be sent to science-fiction reviewers and since it is built up as a novel about the future, I feel it should be covered here. The basic situation is that England has been conquered by Russia and is now occupied. There are collaborators and an underground, here represented by Garnett. The basic situation is standard spy stuff. The Russians have captured a resistance fighter who has information that can destroy the underground. Garnett is sent to free him (or probably to kill him, if necessary) before he can Reveal All. And from there on it's pure kitsch -- about as dishonest a use of the situation as is possible. There is almost no sign of any real reason for the underground. In reading the book, there is a violently stated anti-Russian anticommunist attitude and a constant iteration of how bad things are. But we see very little of that. The Russians we meet seem in only vague control, and we see very little of what they are doing; true, they seem to capture and be willing to shoot people who kill their people, but the rest of England goes on without any great evidence of the change. In fact, except for one mention, there seems almost no evidence of the war that was great enough to conquer the country, despite its having involved atomic weapons. What America is doing or thinking, or what political changes have ocurred in the rest of the world, is left uncovered. There is the standard woman who may or may not be a double agent. And there is the equally standard encounter at a critical moment with a Russian patrol, which gives a chance to show how easily the (rather mild) Russian is bamboozled. But aside from some moments during the unbelievable attack on the prison where our captive is kept, most of the events are stated as being laden with drama and danger -- but lack any real conviction of either. This attempt to lay a standard spy thriller in the future is hard to justify. It would have been a lot better laid in East Germany or some such place, and with an honest attention to background. This IF is as false to me as the attempt to graft sexy romances onto science fiction was back in the late thirties. That was such obvious kitsch that it failed completely on the stands. I can only hope that this will fail as badly, before we get a flood of science-fiction spy thrillers by men who know nothing of sciencefiction technique. However, having had some experience with the reviewing of books in most of our papers and magazines outside the science-fiction field, I'd hesitate to bet that it wouldn't receive raves in most of the book columns. There is no reason for any science-fiction reader to bother with this, in any event.  cated at his feet. Thorpe brushed it aside and stormed across the room for his cape and his cane. His job was done and he had to get out of this palace of horrors. But the statue followed, a whimpering thing that crawled after him and tugged at the embroidered edges of his cape. Cracked hands reached up to him and implored -- they brought a memory of a more ancient touch that so enraged Thorpe that he yelled abuse and brought his jewel cane down upon that dreadful image. And again. And again. And again. With each blow the red ruin of Bedford's face increased. Thorpe's grip on the cane held down the triggering device imbedded in the handle and the stricken figure on the floor was thrown into a convulsions like those of a freshly speared fish. It whimpered and screamed and jumped about like a demented marionette. And died. With all his weight behind it Thorpe drove the cane into Bedford's fat belly and held it there like a rapier, while the power threw the battered body into its final post mortem agonies. Thorpe's mind had snapped. Like a man possessed he hurried around the room, tumbling rubbish and papers into piles and igniting them with his pocket lighter. When several fires were roaring through the room he hurried downstairs and threw open the first door he came to. It was some sort of study. He ripped opened drawers and spilled papers out onto the moth-eaten carpet. He dragged them over to where filthy drapes hung from one window and set the whole lot ablaze. He smashed an old chair and used the legs for torches and carried them around the great deserted house, downstairs and up, setting on fire everything he could reach. He felt sick and dizzy but he knew he had to finish what he had started. He must remove all traces of what had happened in this house -- Bedford, his machine, and everything connected with it. Everything. The furniture was old and burned well. In rto time at all the ancient timber house would become an inferno. He started to leave and flames reached out to him. With a dumb sort of comprehension he realized that he had trapped himself. Smoke rose up in great billowing clouds to engulf him; fierce gusts of flame roared to possess him. He was suffocating. He moved forward like a drunken figure in a dream through the inferno of hatred he had created. He fell. Like a tumbling rag dollhe fell down the rotten stairs that had already begun to cave in under the burden of the flames, down into the hideous dark smoke. His body came to rest somewhere in the hallway and he coughed impotently. He would die. There was no escape. He could not move. His legs seemed to have been broken by the fall. Well, so be it. Perhaps it was better this way. To have lived out a life knowing what he knew -- and then he remembered Bedford's evil genius and death was no longer a pain. Fire was good -- it cleansed. He would die a martyr's death. What more could a poet ask? A great torrent of foam surged through what was left of the front door and covered him completely. Dimly he could here voices and the familiar howl of a fire siren. And he smiled, for he knew they were too late. The fire roared defiance at his rescuers -- but the oceans of foam pushed it back -- back -- and anxious hands searched for and found him, carried him to safety. The last thing he saw was the roof of the old house collapsing into a great shower of sparks and he closed his eyes and was content. They hustled him into an ambulence and rushed him to the nearest hospital. F OR several days his escape was given front-page publicity -- publicity that worked in well with the forthcoming Betjeman Prize Tourney, which he was a hot favorite to win. When he was well enough he sat up in bed and scribbled verse frantically and with a new sense of purpose quite foreign to his temperament. He could not know that he was possessed by a terrible demon in the shape of a fear that time might, at any moment, reel to a stop. A week was enough time for the IF police to sift the evidence of the fire and work over Bedford's charred remains. A warrant was summarily issued and Thorpe was removed to a police hospital while the crown prepared its case. But all this hardly mattered to him. He still scribbled incessantly. His trial was mercifully brief. He sat tense and uncommunicative throughout the proceedings and his counsel, defeated by his duced to making a plea of temporary insanity and throwing him on the mercy of the court. The plea was accepted -- the case was closed. Thorpe was transferred to a secluded institution where he continued to churn out reams of incomprehensible poems -- his mind still held in thrall by what he had found in Bedford's machine, knowing what he knows and wondering how long it will be before somebody else starts fiddling around with Bedford's ideas -- and knowing there is nothing he can do about it. For the rest of his natural life. # Hobgoblin. "I did that work myself. There is nothing wrong with it." ly. So this was a personal matter with the goblin now. An excellent opportunity to embarrass the chief before his entire planet, to torpedo his prestige. He was tempted. The chief had tried to trick him, and the audience had been thirsty for his blood right along. He could get even with the whole species of Hobgoblin and make its dentistry the laughing stock of the galaxy. He saw that the Jann was back in his booth. That made it safe: he could tell off the planet with impunity -- the huge robot would vaporize anyone who dared to attack him. There would be blood and carnage and flame -- was he thinking of? He was here to make friends for the University, not to incite riot. He truly needed an assistant if his nerves were this tight. Someone to cool him off. "The work is excellent," he said. "I could not do better myself. The cement is defective. Give it time and every restoration will come loose. This entire mouth will have to be redone. And every case where you used this type of cement. They all are suspect." The goblin dentist looked. He pried off another cap and saw the condition of the underlying cement. He sagged, confidence gone. "You're right. Doctor. It was a new variety -- not time-tested -- but most highly recommended. We used it on our special patients -- tourists, visitors, persons of note -- " said graciously, suddenly seeing the answer to those vague off-planet complaints. "Perhaps there is some quality of the local environment that affects the cement as it is being applied. The University will be happy to run tests for you. It's a shame to have work this good be undermined by something this small." "Doctor," the goblin said with surprising politeness, "you have made your point. University training is beneficial. We shall act accordingly." Somehow this did not seem to be the proper time to confess that he had almost missed the key cavity -- or that only the timely reminder by his bipedal assistant had prompted him to perform the routine check that had led to the major discovery. His assistant -- she had been perfect. She had worked correctly and right without intruding. This was the one he wanted to keep. "What is your name and planet?" he asked her as he finished his preparations on the patient. "Miss Galland -- Earth," she said. "Very good, Miss Galland of Earth. I want you to -- " He stopped. He had suddenly realized what was strange about her voice. She wasn't speaking through the translator. "Earth?" "Yes, Doctor," she said as she cleaned up the patient's ugly face. looked directly at her for the first time. She was a young, esthetic, female human being. "Judy!" he exclaimed, amazed. "Judy Galland -- " "I thought you'd never notice. Doctor," she said smiling. "We always worked well together." "What are you doing here?" "Why, I'm assisting you. I thought you knew." "I mean -- I left you on Earth, back when -- " She smiled again. "That's a long story, Doctor.Let's just say that I needed a position and there was an opening. After that matters became complicated. Deep space and all that. Frankly, your robot rescued me from an unfortunate situation." "The Jann brought you? But he was supposed to be protecting me! I thought Miss Taran -- " "None but I shall do thee die," the Jann boomed from his booth, startling them both and causing a ripple of dismay to pass through the massed goblins. "But thy skein will be too brief without a proper assistant. I perceived thou couldst not endure even forty years in thy solitary condition." IF Judy guided the patient out of the chair. "So y #U see , Doctor, two plus two -- " "Equals four." He grabbed her by the arm. "Come on -- let's get out of here before Miss Tarantula sends Number Fitfe. I'll settle for Four." "And a married man is far more likely to live to ninety-two," the Jann observed, rising grandly from the booth. not listening. But the goblin audience certainly was and catcalls resounded.  earth -- a delicate arrangement, if you stop to think about it. Three months since Cathy stepped into that spacebus on a frosty morning. I'd brooded around the house at Round Hill for three days after they'd left, never out of range of a radio or TV. By the end of the third day I was cursing the universe again, reassessing, drinking too much. "Thomas?" Oh, that lovely voice from a far space. The Pleiades? "Thomas -- " I was instantly sober, then immediately stoned again but with a different intoxication. "Cathy." "It's all right, Thomas. Your -- genetic code -- is all right. It can be modified." I'm standing there, stunned. "It took some doing to arrange it, Thomas. We've only done it a few times in our whole (Continued from page #) history. But you can come back -- you can come here with me if you still want to, Thomas." She knew bloody well I still wanted to but a woman is a woman no matter where she's from. Yes, I wanted to. "Don't be silly," I said. without me. We said some other things then and she promised to see me in March. May I say that in the following weeks I took care of myself with megalomanic care? I didn't cross a street against a light. I drove as little as possible and I took vitamin pills. I brushed my teeth. I didn't look at the girls in the Square and I refused to fly in aircraft. The Pleiades, si -- La Guardia, no. The Stonehenge isn't for sale. Harry and his people need it. They may be using it for a long time. I almost said we'll be using it. Anyway, it will stay here on Round Hill. I'll come back from time to time, of course, to look around, see what's happening. We'll have to come either for a few minutes or for three months. Cathy said we could come back for three months every two years. That will be great but we'll be spending most of our time out there. The spacebus is due now. Here it is. Cathy, my lovely girl, is the first one out. There are others -- who will stay for three months. The station wagons are here again but someone else will be taking oysr the Round Hill end of the operation. I'm going. We'll be back now and again. Harry consulted his computer and told us to get aboard. We did. # pelts -- while he had only one. Klaywelder turned over and closed his eyes. -- and came fully awake. The luminous dial over his bunk said he had slept only a short hour. His senses were fuzzy from the strong Pharalellian wine. He cocked his head and listened. Nothing. He shrugged and turned over -- then sat up stiffly. There it was again. Unfamiliar. He set his feet on the floor and something heavy draped over his ankles and wrapped softly about his calves. Klaywelder gasped and jerked away. The firm grip held, tightened, and he yelled as he was pulled to the floor. ( Continued from page #I ) Klaywelder fought savagely. He kicked, pummeled with his fists. His blows were muffled in thick, warm fur, as damp leather tightened about his waist and inched up across his chest. He screamed and cursed himself and Garii and the universe until his throat was raw. And in some last, coherent corner of his mind he wondered if anyone else knew Pharalellians didn't believe in a life after death -- and didn't need to. As thick golden fur covered his face he saw a quick bright picture of dark earthen cups on a smooth stone floor -- small offerings of reverence for those who had passed on to Eternal Life.  IF worth adding to your library... stories you will treasure...  available to you at a special # discount no commitments. Here are the books of enduring value that you will want to own... for hours of science-fiction pleasure, to be read, reread, and discussed with your friends. These are the books that have proven themselves... filled with all of the features you look for in S-F... written by the acknowledged masters of the art. Just circle your choices below, mail to us, and the books will be in your pages, containing stories by such masters of science fiction as Arthur C. Clarke, Theodore Sturgeon, A. E. van Vogt, Clifford Simak, Poul Anderson, Leigh Brackett, John W. Campbell, Jr. All of the stories belong to the excitingly modern era that swept SF to its greatest pinnacle of popularity. #-I from Moldaug, inhuman stars from the last human settlement, are gathering together for war. Old world colonies in order to avert this war. But not rugged individualist Cully When, the type of man who has pioneered frontiers in all times and all places. Set in some future time, this action-filled adventure depicts space-age guerrilla warfare and age-old human stupidity with excitement and ends with an explosive climax. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# #-# separate and complete worlds -- idyllic Lithia and a culture on Earth that has literally gone under ground, provides the basis for the story of four extraordinary men. There is the priest, dedicated to the glory of God; the scientist working for the glory of man; the realist who works only for himself; and the man who is content to ask nothing of any world, any man, or any deity. The author presents a compelling moral problem. This book is something of a tour de force . # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # .# #-# the edge of tomorrow... who will be chosen for immortality? Who will make this ultimate decision -- the government, free enterprise, or private monopoly? A new, highly controversial novel, infused with blood and guts, examining the disease of power as well as the responsibility. Both praised and damned before it was even published, thisi novel deserves your personal attention. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-#A the Planet of the Flowers, Dr. Freda Caron's fiance Paul has sent her an exquisite iridescent yellow tulip that not only has a plastic memory -- but can talk. Freda realizes that she must unlock the secrets of the flower planet and its strange hold on Paul. In this exciting new book, Freda must travel from her ultra-rational world-oftomorrow to explore the strange, unearthly flower planet. The climax of this shocking and oddly beautiful novel is bizarre and delightful. # pp. List Price...# Discount Price... # #-S an entire day, a small rural village in England loses contact with the outside world. Soon after, all the women, married or not become pregnant, eventually giving birth to remarkable golden-eyed children who exhibit a strange kind of sinisterism. They are dangerous and Midwich most make the ultimate decision -- if the children survive, then mankind must join the dinosaur among Nature's discards. A gripping account of man's fight for survival. # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # #-S C. M. Kombluth. Two major advertising agencies are fighting for the Venus account -- nothing less than total control of the Venus economy and markets will do. It is completely unimportant that Venus is a harsh, barren, uninhabited planet. According to the mentality of Mitchell Courtenay of Fowler Schocken Associates, the trick is to persuade colonists to go to Venus, and once there, they will have to survive as best they can. One of the most savage and devastating attacks on modern consumer society and the advertising agents who are its high priests. The Space Merchants is uncomfortably prophetic. # pp. List Price... # .SO Discount Price... # S-# mysterious space force that inhibits the world's intelligence. But suddenly, it's gone and overnight the intellect of every living creature is trebled. What are the consequences of such instant genius? These are the problems confronting Archie Brock, former near moron; Peter Corinth, physicist; and his no-longer dumb wife. This provocative and absorbing book explores the ultimate problem of such a situation -- in a world free of the difficulties that has plagued mankind throughout history, what is man to do with his time? # pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # S-SA Asimov book... America's feremost science writer, takes you on a personalized guided tour of his first # books. This, his #th book, is an anthology of works selected by the author himself. It is a journey which acquaints the reader with a writer considered to be a genius, who delights in every aspect of life and has the capacity to make any subject he writes about both understandable and entertaining. Reviewers customarily greet Asimov publications with such adjectives as ling." Opus # is no exception. # pp. List Price... #. # Discount Price... # S-# Helnlein't Future History Stories. Twenty-five years ago Robert A. Heinlein began to write stories about an imaginary future that is fast becoming a reality. Discover, through the pen of the master of space-age fiction, about man's first step on the moon; weather control; manufacture of synthetic food; interstellar exploration. Now, for the first time, in chronological order, are Heinlein's #I compelling stories -- all depicting a glimpse of a possible tomorrow. # pp. List Price... # .# Discount Price... # S-# master pain peddler, skillful and sophisticated, lives in a time when reading tragic headlines no longer provides the necessary sensations. Into Chalk's sinister hands tails Lona Kelvin, orphaned, mother of # children, yet without a soul; and Minner Burris, starman, whose butchered body was put together by aliens, a walking horror. What fun to mate these iwo and watch them wallow in their mutual torment. But somewhere, something went wrong. Discover what happens when the puppets begin to pull their own strings in this imagi#pp. List Price... # Discount Price... # s P.O. Box #, Grand Central Post Office, New York, N. Y. # Please send me the books Please print full name fr. address I have circled. S-l S-# S-# S-#A S-# Name  S-# S-# S-#A S-# S-# Address City" State Zip Code Sorry, No C.O.D.'s. (Please add #I for postage and handling. N.Y.C. residents please add # sales tax. N.Y. State residents please add # sales tax.) Photo by Terry O'Neill Miss Raquel Welch Learn the seven warning signals of cancer. You'll be in good company. #. Unusual bleeding or discharge. #. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. #. A sore that does not heal. #. Change in bowel or bladder habits. #. Hoarseness or cough. #. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. #. Change in size or color of a wart or mole. If a signal lasts longer than two weeks, see your doctor without delay. And be sure to have a health checkup once a year, no matter how well you may feel. Fight Cancer with a checkup and a check American Cancer Society The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to toke with trial membership Including, if you wish, #: A Space Odyssey rr Science Fiction has grown up. P Have you kept up? s' A new literary genre has come of age -- your age. Mature. Sophisticated. Provocative. And respected. You are invited t# explore it now under an amazing trial  offer. Take any # volumes on this page (worth up to # in original publishers' editions) for only #, plus shipping and handling with trial membership.  New club selections will be described to you in advance each month. Choose from new works of fiction -- and fact -- by such acclaimed authors as Bradbury, Serling, Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein and others. Volumes are full-length, hard-boundand uncut. Though they sell for as much as #, # and more in their original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping. fYou may choose an optional extra-value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept as few as four books during the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #. #: A Arthur C. Clarke l Hunting an alien "presence" in the universe, # men and a computergonepsychoVI tic stumble upon the in# credible secret of mankind's birth -- only to trigger the cosmic "booby-trap" that could spell its death. A controversial best-seller by the most acclaimed science fiction writer of our era. Pub. ed. # Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me # plus a modest shipping and handling charge for all three. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin, Things to Come which describes coming selections. If I do not wish to receive the monthly selection or prefer an alternate. I simply give instructions on the form provided. For each book I accept. I pay #, plus shipping and handling. Occasional extra-value selections are priced slightly higher. I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign any time thereafter. ductory package. I may return it in # days and membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing. #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame. I. # "winners." chosen by Sci-Fi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. S# #. The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the World. by Harlan Ellison. IS tales -- including Hugo St Nebula Award Winners. #. Stand on Zanzibar, by John Brunner. Extrapolates today's society into #st Century. # pages. Pub. ed. # #. The Left Hand #. Stranger In n of Darkness, by Strange Land, by Ursula K. LeGuin. Robert A. HeinFinding love -- in a lein. He knew the 'Unisex" world' Martian love secret Nebula Award win-and it spelled his ner. Pub. ed. S# doom.Pub.ed.S#S #. Satan's World, by Poul Anderson. Civilization built on "vice culture" threatened by revolution. Pub. ed. S#S Print Name #. World's Best Science Fiction #. By Vonnegut. Jr... Sheckley. Delaney. Knight. Aldiss. and others. Address State. #. Dangerous Visions. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon, Anderson, others. Pub. ed. S# #. The Illustrated Man. Ray Bradbury . # stories. " Intensely real." N. Y Times. Now a hit movie! Pub. ed # #. Three for Tomorrow. Novcllis by Silverberg. Zerlazny. Blish. Foreword by Arthur C. Clarke. Pub. ed. # If under #. parent must sign here Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Printed in U.S.A.  Randall Garrett and Michael Kurland f v Keith Lauraer  George C. Chesbro lack Sharkey to figure out how much you hate missing the best story of your favorite writer or the major part of a great novel. But we can't compute a formula to stock every newsstand in the country with enough copies of our popular magazines to satisfy every reader. So we sometimes miss you and you miss us -- and that's a double tragedy. It doesn't take a genius to handle it, either. All it takes is a minute of your time, for which we want to repay you with a handsome saving over the newsstand price. Just fill in the coupon -- or write the information on a piece of plain paper -- and mail it to us. Then you'll be sure instead of sorry. rate. I enclose my check or money order for:  # issues of each #  # issues of each #  # issues of each # Name Address City  State Zip Code Prices outside the Western Hemisphere add # per # issues for postage Please check whether  new or  renewal n Sepfembar-October I # Vd. TO, No. # lw # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Lester dot Hoy, Feature Editor JudyLynn Benjamin , Managing Editor Front L. Rogge ri. Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director i. C. Murphy, Administration Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director Randall Garrett and Michael Kurland # Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: S# in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Boods, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. I hope some day to meet the Porguens, Mr. and Mrs., Victor. The last Hue And Cry carried a letter from Mrs. Porguen, a well-stated afid certainly reasonable presentation of her views on the February issue of Galaxy -- to which I replied. Now Mr. Porguen has taken up the debate in another excellent letter. My reply in the last issue still stands -- I might add that stories must evolve in form and content as does everything else -- including magazines. Now, Mr. Porguen: Dear Mr. Jakobsson: The question of meanings is still bothering us. The JulyAugust " Hue and Cry" brings us Mr. Corwins comments on " The Last Night of the Festival", heavily emphasizing the graphic layout values of the story. It also contains your clarification that the story described " a race of humans, survivors of mutual abuse, who had evolved into creatures capable of existing only in festival atmosphere -- . Now, the graphic layout was a fresh visual experience, though I don't relish the possibility of having every SF story so adorned. Spices are best in minute amounts. But the story itself -- To make certain  hadn't missed its true value by giving up reading it too soon,  made it a point this time of going past the #th. page, all the way to the #th. The darn thing turns out to be worse than I thought. Plachta starts with what appears to be some sort of mystic poetry, giving us a bellyful of images, some delicate and beautiful, some cruel and shocking and some plainly hysterical and stupid. They describe the movement of a couple towards a crowd, across a lawn, to the edge of a forest, under the Gate of Blood, to the Final Grotto, past the Wisdom Trees but not (Oh, no!) into the Tunnel of No Return, then to play a game called " The Spider and the Fly", kiss each other, proceed to the Lazy Lagoon and finally enjoy walking hand in hand under the Surprise Shower. Honest to God. When the verborrhea is over, they start explaining to each other what it's all about, # pages too late and # before the end. They talk about it for # pages and then Plachta gives us... more of the same! A agghhh! Mr. Jakobsson, " The Last Night of the Festival" is fantasy, very definitely fantasy and not awfully good fantasy at that. Obscure imagery has never been the mark of a good writer. Plachta must be somewhat aware of this, as he finally feels the need to include a plain-language explanation, by means of a dialogue near the end of the story. You speak of underlying realities. But eight rhymed one-sentence condemnations of Nazi Germany do not a story make, Mr. Jakobsson. A nd, in any case, the whole thing had absolutely no business in a science-fiction magazine. Please, no more Plachta, unless he becomes a writer of SF stories. Take " Slow Sculpture," for ex( Continued on page #) IF were Mvcruciam Benjamin Frankli Isaac Newton Francis Bacon Why were these men great ? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. copy of "The Mastery of Life" -- ligation. A nonprofit organization. Address: Scribe N.S.A. San Jose, California #, U.S.A. Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. To: Falkynberg, Oxbo  Associates Regis Center, Proxit # # # Sirs: Information re Quindar desperately needed. Your standard contract being drawn with fifty percent override. Preliminary expenses ruaranteed until contract accepted. Take what action you can immediate. Known data follows. Please comex acceptance. Lloyds by T. Bruber I timated his chances of geting out of the window two and a half meters to his left and knew that, as of now, they were small, one move, and the Peacemen of the Brothers of God would jump him and either beat him to death with their peace wands or toss him in the contemplation cell and drop the key into a glacier crevasse. The former was by far the more likely. The contemplation cell, which Mikko had once been shown, was an iron-barred stone prison, a single, big, unheated chamber with some piles of straw in it and a stream of water running through it. Sinning members of the Brotherhood found themselves "sequestered for contemplation" and given one meal a day until they were either forgiven by the Table of Elders or died of exposure and malnutrition -- whichever occurred first. The Peacemen had a use for that cell and apparently no use whatever for Mikko Falkynberg. On the other hand, while the Holy Guardians of Peace, like the other members of the Brotherhood, were forbidden to take human life, they were permitted to subdue recalcitrant sinners. They could carry no weapons, but their peace wands were of dense, hard wood, four centimeters in diameter and seventy-five centimeters long. If a sinner departed this life while being subdued, that was the Will of God and no fault of the Peaceman. Mikko Falkynberg had no deeire either to contemplate himself to death or to be subdued to death by others. The trouble was that some of the men surrounding him looked as if they were trying to figure out some way to do both -- preferably alternately and for a long time to come. Sitting in a chair with half a dozen of the Holy Guardians on each side of him, Mikko ignored them and faced the Table of Elders -- all eight of them -- with perfect aplomb. The Patriarch Ebenezer was speaking: "You came among us as a stranger, saying you sought IF the Truth. And now -- " he gestured gently with a thin white hand. "And now -- this." Mikko put his hands palm-topalm in front of his broad chest. "Venerable Patriarch, I have been among the Brotherhood and dwelt with them for many weeks. I have listened, I have learned and I have obeyed. I now know the Holy Laws, the Holy Liturgy, and the Holy History -- " Most bloody well especially the Holy History! " -- and during all this time I have been under the watchful and benevolent eye of Your Most Venerable Paternity. Tell me, most Reverenced Patriarch, have I, during that time, done anything -- " He paused very slightly. " -- anything whatever , that Your Most Venerable Paternity knows, of your own knowledge , could be called a sin?" His emphases were gentle. Silence fell in the room as old Ebenezer looked suddenly thoughtful. The Patriarch was old only physiologically; his chronological age was scarcely more than Seventy Standard Years. But the skin of his face was dark and wrinkled, and his hair and beard were white -- in spite of the fact that he was a great deal younger than Falkynberg. Falkynberg had carefully refrained from disabusing the Patriarch of the notion that he, Mikko, was no older than he looked -- that is, looked according to the Brotherhood's rather parochial ideas of physiological aging. The Brotherhood was aware that prolongevity treatments were usual in other parts of the galaxy but, since such things were the work of Sathanas, thee were not acceptable emotionally and therefore did not really exist. If a man looked thirty-five, he was thirty-five and Patriarch Ebenezer looked upon Mikko as a youngster half his own age. "No," said the Venerable Patriarch after a long minute. "I know of no sin upon you. But you have heard the charges of the Wife Sara." "I have," Mikko said solemnly. "They are grave charges indeed, Venerable Patriarch. I know not how to answer them save to say that I am innocent." murmuring grumble from the Peacemen on either side of him, but Mikko ignored it. "Do you, then, deny the accusation, my son?" Ebenezer asked in his dry, raspy whisper. "Most emphatically. Venerable One." Mikko let his gaze move around the circle of the others at the Table. Jakob, next in line for the Patriarchy, was somewhat gaunter of face than Ebenezer, and had round, staring eyes that made him look corpselike in the flickering light from the central fireplace. Enoch and Enos, the twin brothers, were hard of face and hard of eye, with salt-and-oepper beards and long hair. Jared was as bald as a spaceship hull, with weight and musculature to match. Zachariah had thin, wispy hair, a great hawkish nose and eyes like lasers. Ephron had curly white hair and a receding chin that made him look weaker than he really was. And then there was Lamech. The trouble with Lamech was that every time Mikko looked at the man, he felt as if he were looking at a distorted image of himself. Lamech stood a hundred eightyfive centimeters tall, was heavy-set, perhaps a little too fat around the middle. Full beard, full mustache, full head of hair curling at the nape of the neck, eyebrows the same dark brown as the rest of the hair. Beneath the brows were dark, wide-spaced, beady, rather piggish eyes that showed sharp intelligence. Jaw broad and heavy. Lips thick and expressive. Genesis #, #-#, Mikko thought. Except that it ought to be: Genesis #, #-#. In spite of the fire in the fireplace the big, logwalled room was colder and Mikko wasn't really dressed for any long exposure to that cold. Lamech slitted his piggish little eyes and said calmly, "Are we to doubt, then, the testimony of my prime wife? Sara has said that this man -- " "We have heard the testimony, Brother Lamech," the Patriarch said in a voice that was as dry and blistering as a Valdusian wind. Lamech withered into silence. Mikko had early recognized the reason for Sara's behavior. Take at random any woman who loves her husband. Allow them to cohabit for, say, ten years, so that the newness wears off and routine sets in. Then suddenly present her with an exotic stranger who greatly resembles her husband but is far handsomer. Present her with a man who is stronger, cleverer, wiser, more understanding, more widely traveled and far more sophisticated. Present her with a man who has all of her beloved husband's good qualities -- and more -- and none of his bad ones. What would any such woman do? Mikko Falkynberg had long ago resigned himself to the fact that this situation would come up in his life with random regularity and he had always made it a point, because of the generosity of his soul, to do his best to help such women -- provided, of course, that they had the beauty, intelligence, and emotional stability that appeal to the connoisseur. Sara had beauty and intelligence, all right, but emotionally she was as any primitive suffering under the duress of a puritanical society. He had avoided her as he would have an equivalent mass of unIF shielded Cobalt Sixty. As a result, he was now playing Joseph to Lamech's Potiphar and was under tecnical arrest by the Table of Elders. If only Lamech -- or Sara -- had waited another hour! Ebenezer murmured, "Will you take a solemn oath to that effect, my son?" "Without the least hesitation," Mikko assured him. He raised his right hand solemnly. As he did so, he glanced at the braided cuff of his robe. A tiny telltale glinted. It might have been taken for a bit of mica or a tiny shard of broken glass gleaming in the firelight but Mikko saw it for what it was. Tress had come over the horizon. raised and put his left palm piously on his breast, thereby activating certain mechanisms. He began to speak in the solemn tones of the dialect of Italio-Swahili spoken on Ndullah. "Tress, hear me." His voice was so deep and vibrant that the Elders merely blinked and stared. They dared not interrupt. "Yes, Mikko," said a small voice in Mikko's ear. "Highest priority. Put a Numred warning right in the middle of the village square. The curfew has Science-fiction stories from Socialist countries Here is a book that is truly a boon to science-fiction fans -- the best stories of nine writers whose work has seldom, if ever, appeared on this side of the Atlantic. Whether the reader comes to enjoyment-or to grasp a deeper understanding of socialist idealism -- he is sure to come away fully satisfied. "An immensely valuable addition to the science fiction canon...great enjoyment. frederik pohl sounded, so nobody will get hurt. Then be waiting for me as soon as possible at the rendezvous. How long will that take you?" rive in eight point seven three minutes. I will be at rendezvous in fourteen point six two minutes," Tress said. "Amen," intoned Mikko. After a full two seconds of silence, Patriarch Ebenezer blinked and said: "Er -- we cannot accept an oath not of our tongue." "Oh, of course," Mikko said smoothly. "In prayer it is natural to revert to one's native tongue. How would you have it worded, Venerable Patriarch? I am not, as you know, fully conversant with your Liturgy as yet." Fetching the great, hand-lettered book in question took five minutes, and reading out the appropriate paragraphs took another three. Mikko was all prepared to go through the oath seemingly a second time when he happened to look through the window to his left. "My word," he said mildly. "What could that be? A fire?" A red glow was coming from the village square. Everyone craned his neck to see. With precision timing Mikko turned his back and closed his eyes a fraction of a second before the light turned from red to blinding white. He had judged the distance to the other window to a centimeter. He walked toward it, eyes still closed, opened it and jumped out into the snowbank below, ignoring the shouts and screams from the men in the room behind him. After five seconds the blinding white light died, leaving only a faint hissing in the melted snow of the village square. Mikko Falkynberg opened his eyes and started moving toward the woods at the edge of the village. He still had a long way to go but it would be several minutes before the Table regained eyesight -- and several more before effective pursuit could be organized. He sprinted off through the snow toward the rendezvous. Twenty minutes later, he was no longer sprinting, just keeping up a steady plod toward the clearing where Tress would be waiting. He could hear no sounds of pursuit to his rear, although his footprints could have been followed easily enough. Had the flare so frightened his interlocators that they dared not follow or was the confusion still so great that they didn't yet realize what had happened? He never did find out. A few minutes later the shadowy eggshape of a spaceship was looming in the darkling night. Mikko climbed aboard and said, "Let's get the hell out of here right now." IF IITigood boy." The elegant, meticulously dressed, fashionable gentleman who spoke was Mr. Morgan Oxbo, lately come to Beedirn City and already acceptable to the upper levels of Beedirn society. He was wealthy, affable, witty without being offensive and of excellent countenance. His intimate knowledge of recent events in the More Important Centers of Galactic Power fascinated the gentlemen. The ladies were particularly taken by his small, neat beard and mustache and his wealth of curly, dark auburn hair. The creature to whom he spoke was small and low-slung, looking as though there were both dachshund and armadillo in his ancestry -- which there was not, since neither Terrestrial animal had ever been anywhere within fifty lightyears of Maxaglor. Little Metrak had a glossy black hide and a round, high-domed head embellished with small, neat, close-set ears. His eyes were black, large and rather wistful and his mouth seemed to wear a plaintive smile. The ladies thought him "simply adorable" and they admired Mr. Oxbo's taste in exotic pets, but Metrak seemed shy and skittered away on six stumpy little legs when they tried to pet him. And Mr. Oxbo had warned them that he might scratch if he were teased. Metrak, hearing Mr. Oxbo's voice, came away from his careful exploration of a Public Utility control dome at the curb and trotted back to his place at Mr. Oxbo's side. The two of them continued their promenade down the avenue toward the spaceport entrance, Mr. Oxbo holding Metrak's leash in one elegantly gloved hand. The faint, tangy aroma of poon flowers hung on the warm breeze. Twice Mr. Oxbo tipped his hat to passing ladies while Metrak trotted along a few inches from the heel of a boot that was as polished and as black as his own glossy integument. They strolled in through the doors of the great lobby of the huge spaceport, crossed it and surveyed the slidewalks. One, which T'd off in both directions, sported a large sign with this information: Mr. Oxbo and his small friend went to the left. A few minutes later, Mr. Oxbo was standing beII ing his card to a young, properly deferential clerk. "I am looking," he said in a pleasant voice, "for a small crate -- about a hundred fifty kilos -- which was to have been shipped to me from Synax IV. My agents said they had not yet been notified of its arrival, so I thought I'd drop round and see." "Of course, Mr. Oxbo," the clerk said, taking his card and the two-debit note which clung casually to the bottom. "I'll be glad to check the newly landed freight for you. Will this crate be consigned to you?" "Either directly to me -- easy, Metrak! -- or to my agents, Howard and Gibbs." "Very well, sir. Please sit down. I'll see to this myself. Only be a moment." "Ha, hm," Mr. Oxbo said, sitting down and tapping his chin with the ivory knob handle on his onyx cane. "I shall await your return." He picked a copy of Intragalac tic Freight Handlers Digest of Current Rules  Regulations -- Southern Sector from the desk and leafed through it. Metrak, seeing his leashholder preoccupied, slipped out of his collar and scampered after the clerk, his six paws making slight waltztime clicks on the concrete floor. The clerk failed to notice as the small creature scuttled through the inner door behind him. A brace of signs on the wall of the inner corridor said: The clerk took the branch to the left. Metrak went to the right and kept moving until he reached a door which announced: A ten-centimeter space under the door allowed for air circulation. Metrak flattened himself. His cross-section, normally almost round, became more and more elliptical until he looked something like an oddly shaped doormat. His head was the most difficult part to get under but he managed it. The rest of him slid beneath the door without effort. He resumed his normal shape, stood up on his rearmost legs and surveyed the room. This was a working section of the spaceport. With little allowance for walkways, indirect lighting or other human conveniences, the vast area was filled with large crates, small crates, long crates and skinny crates. They were being loaded and unloaded by cratehandling robots, stacked by cratestacking robots, moved to and from ships by field cargo robots, sorted by sorting robots and IF picked up for local delivery by messenger robots. Over all the darting eyes of the central cargo computer kept careful watch as its minions followed their detailed instructions. These crate-handling robots were not too bright -- just smart enough to obey the orders of their master, the central cargo computer. Metrak dropped to all sixes and click , tickety-ticked across the floor toward a particular field cargo robot. One of the mobile eyes examined him. Humans and sentient aliens were not permitted in the area without carrying a special badge. Not human, the computer decided; not listed sentient alien -- the computer searched for a category. Aha! The computer sent a message to Maintenance Department Subsection Rat  Rodent Control , and dismissed the problem. Metrak reached the carrier -- which had just about finished loading a group of unusually shaped crates -- and crawled under the low overhang between the treads. Rolling over on his back, he reached up with his six legs, hooked over a frame brace and pulled himself up until he was clamped tightly in place. The field cargo robot got the last crate loaded firmly aboard its carrier and, chuckling softly to itself, headed out the vast double doors onto the field. HE only ship incoming from Synax IV in the past week downloaded yesterday," the clerk informed Mr. Oxbo. "The entire cargo was a private consignment of, ah, er, pleasure androids. For transshipment, of course." "Of course," Mr. Oxbo agreed politely. "So, I'm afraid your shipment just hasn't -- " "It was transshipped through Von Haagen," Mr. Oxbo said, smiling innocently at the clerk. "Would that make a difference?" "A difference!" The clerk was amazed. "My dear sir, that means I'd -- if you'd told me -- " Mr. Oxbo produced another two-debit note between fore and index fingers with the languid aplomb of a conjurer. "Delighted, of course, to find the shipment for you in any case," the clerk continued, not noticing his right hand take the money. "I shall be but a few seconds." "Take," Mr. Oxbo insisted, "your time." T HE ship that the field cargo robot pulled up to had the characteristic breakfast look of an Uxorian freighter. Built like three stubby sausages tied in a bundle and surmounted by a poached egg, these ships had a reputation for cheapness, large capacity, stupidity, undependability and difficulty of repair. They were also impossible to get spare parts for and Uxor-trained machanics -- of which there were few -- were the only ones who would dare delve into their randomly plumbed and wired brains and bowels. The captains of Uxorian freighters were either courageous and daring or broke and desperate. Metrak dropped off the underside of the carrier as it reached its destination and, flattening himself as much as he could against the gray concrete, scurried over to the near sausage. After waiting long enough to make sure he hadn't set off any alarms or alerted any interior sensors, he flattened himself out against the near fin, hooked his forepaws over its sloping edge and started to climb. When he reached the top of the fin, some forty feet up, he wrapped himself around an external atmosphere engine fuel pipe and shinnied up, a black lump against the stainless steel. A ship's officer wearing the insignia of supercargo came around to inspect the loading and Metrak froze in place. The officer puttered around for three or four minutes with Metrak thinking dark thoughts overhead. This would throw the timing off. The officer wandered off without having once looked up. Metrak allowed himself a Maxaglorian grin and continued up to the end of the pipe. He was still a good many feet short of the deepspace hydrogen scoops that were his target. the clerk's office, practiced his supercilious sneer. Then be practiced lifting both eyebrows in surprise. The inner door swung open and he reverted automatically to languid boredom, his most successful pose. While I sit here out-incompetencing a clerk , he thought, smiling vapidly as the one in question entered the office, Mikko is plying our trade on a primitive planet. Wild parties . Native girls. He and Tress are having a fine old time... "I have succeeded in exacting the spacial coordinates in relation to the specified consignment as per your inquiry," the clerk announced. Morgan stared at the clerk. Success seemed to have gone to his head. "How meretriciously consanguineous of you, old man," he murmured. "We always try to meet or exceed our performance specifications, as set down in the Intragalactic Manual," the clerk assured him. He looked so pleased at having found the crate that Morgan wondered if it was the first time. There was a good chance, since the stuff was usually robot-handled right to final delivery. The crate had been located faster than Morgan had allowed for -- Metrak wasn't yet back. "Fine," he said, thinking fast. "I knew I could count on you. Will you please arrange to have IF both crates shipped to my residence immediately? I would be ever in your debt." "Ah, yes," the clerk said, fiddling with his marking pen. "Both crates, you say?" "Of course. One isn't very much good to me without the other." "Ah, yes. You will excuse me for a moment while I, ah, make the arrangements." Morgan nodded pleasantly and the clerk went back through the inner door. so high up on the hull -- the climbing method he had to use now left traces. Finding a seam in the plating that went straight up to the near scoop, he inserted his powerful fingers in the crack and pinched the metal to obtain a climbing grip. He left a track of peculiar circular indentations along the edge of the seam as he climbed. No other Maxaglorian would have dreamed of trying such a suicidally insane stunt -- not on the surface of Maxaglor. Beings who have evolved on a planet with a surface gravity of five times ten to the fifth centimeters per second squared -- five hundred Standard Gees -- do not much care for heights. Even the incredibly tough and hard body of a Maxaglorian cannot survive a drop of more than two or three meters. And, unlike the majority of giant planets, or the supergiant in the #I Cygni system, Maxaglor does not have an extensive atmosphere. That was ripped away hundreds of thousands of millennia ago by a nearby satellite the size of Neptune. At the surface, the atmospheric pressure is four times that of Earth's, but eighty percent of that consists of argon, neon, and helium. The five percent of oxygen means that the partial pressure of that gas is the same as it is on Earth. Thus the Maxaglorian atmosphere is shallow; climbing even a rather high hill will soon put one into the stratosphere. "Low" gravity -- less than four or five gees -- gives a Maxaglorian the feeling that he is falling. Which gives him the feeling that he is within a fraction of a second of death. On Maxaglor, if you fall long enough to realize it, you are dead. It had taken Metrak a long time, using stem mental discipline, to be able to climb vertically; now he did so with practiced ease. The scoop was furled closed under an atmosphere shield and Metrak had to clench the seam with his two rear pairs of feet and pull open one edge of the scoop for a few centimeters with his short fingers. He reached in for the nearest control vane and wrenched it loose with one quick motion. Passing the vane down to a middle hand, he used his two forehands to unstrap a thin metal sheet which had been clamped to his underside. About four centimeters thick, and shaped like a sixteen-centimeter shark's fin, it was a close approximation of the removed vane. Metrak snapped it into place over the exposed gas teat and, with the pressure of two stubby fingers, secured it in position. He then strapped the excess vane underneath him, where the counterfeit had been, and eased the scoop shut. He inspected the scoop carefully for exterior signs of tampering and found none. Looking down, Metrak saw that the loading was finished and the carrier was preparing to depart. He snapped loose from the seam and, rolling into as tight a ball as he could manage with the vane strapped to him, dropped twentyfive meters to the concrete. consigned to you on the bill of lading, Mr. Oxbo," the clerk announced firmly as he came through the door. "Really? How extraordinary," Morgan said. "Perhaps -- oh, there you are, Metrak," he added as he caught sight of the short figure scurrying in behind the clerk. "You really mustn't get off your leash like that, you might get hurt." He clipped the leash back around Metrak's shiny neck. "Well, no matter. Just send along the one you've located and I'll make do." He stood up and, tucking his cane firmly under his arm, sauntered out of the office, Metrak clicking along behind. Ill in the study of his flat in Beedirn City reading, for the third time, the dynafax sheet from Lloyds that had been forwarded from the planet Proxit. Lloyds of London is one of the biggest insurance companies in this sector of the galaxy. They have, historically speaking, no connection whatever with the ancient firm of that name that had existed so many centuries before on Earth. No person named Lloyd has ever been connected with it. It was founded by three gentlemen named Pembroke, Raskalnikov and Itahu but -- prompted by the fact that they had set up their corporation on the planet London -- they had named it after the ancient, long-defunct firm and had fully and conscientiously lived up to the honor of that almost legendary name. As a parallel, there is a planet named Cajnelot a few thousand light-years from Old Mother Earth. It only has one small continent, and early achieved a planetary government. Its chief executive is called King Arthur and his advisory council is called The Round Table. Its historical conIF nections with the original King Arthur are as direct as those of the present Lloyds of London with the old firm. The dynafax read: To: Falkynberg, Oxbo  Associates Regis Center, Proxit # # Forward: Beedirn City, Beedirn# # # Sirs: Ref: Your contract # Preliminary contract accepted. Registered. Debits Five hundred thousand, (# # # Standard Debit Units) plus expenses. We reaffirm as follows: Quindar Engineering has contracted with certain other Companies (see Ref. #) to provide a planetary platform for scientific purposes, said platform guaranteed by Quindar to pass within five hundred (#  # # ) light-seconds of an A-# star for a length of time guaranteed to be sufficient for full observation of phenomena without danger to the observers. (For er ref.) We have been asked by the group of secondary companies to provide performance and liability insurance for the observers at comprehensive group rates. The directors of Quindar Engineering refuse to supply information necessary for evaluation of risk or performance capability. Investigation shows that Quindar has not spent, in the known galaxy, anywhere near the amount our estimates assume for the cost of such a project. We have been unable to ascertain, by any normal means, the location of the star involved. You are authorized to use any prudent means to acquire this information. All lawful action will be supported by this office. Lloyds by T. Bruber Morgan put the dynafax down and gnawed thoughtfully at the tip of his right thumb. The door announcer spoke: "There is room enough -- " Metrak, who was curled up on an easy chair, fast asleep, didn't hear the coded words. Morgan shot to his feet immediately. He strode over to the chair and tipped it, so that all one hundred twenty kilos of Metrak's small, compact mass hit the floor with a resounding thud. Morgan kicked him solidly with a heavily booted foot. "Up, Professor; he's here." "Gmf?" said Metrak. "Who? Oh. Yes. Thank you, Morgan." Morgan was already out of the room by then, walking rapidly down the hall toward what the upper classes of Beedirn called the receiving room. He flung open the door and went in. The man standing in the center of the room was wearing a coral satin silon coat, a gold doublephase waistcoat, white form-fitpolysilon boots that came almost up to his kneecaps. He bowed to Morgan and said: "Mr. Oxbo, I believe?" "Quite so, Mr. Falkynberg," said Morgan, returning the bow. Then, straightening: "No need to worry. The place isn't bugged." Mikko Falkynberg put his gray hat on a nearby chair and began to remove his gray gloves. "I had assumed it wasn't. Ah! Good morning, Professor Metrak." "Gnp," said the Maxaglorian. "Good morning, Mikko. Good to see you. Wait till I wake up." Morgan had stepped over to the sideboard and was pouring a good quarter of a liter of Aldebaranian brandy into a dynocrystal goblet. He handed it to Metrak, who drained half of it gustily, then blinked up at Mikko. "Ahhh," he said. His highly efficient metabolism had already begun to convert the alcohol to needed energy. "You are early, Mikko," he continued. "Explain, please." "In a moment, Professor," Mikko said. He raised an eyebrow at Morgan, but the expression was unnecessary -- his partner was already handing him a brandy-andwater. With it he passed on the dynafax. "Thank you, Morgan," Mikko said, lowering himself carefully into a chair. "God! What idiots!" "The Brotherhood?" Morgan asked. Mikko narrowed his eyes, glaring. "Naturally. I was accused -- " He paused. "But never mind. Tress has recorded it all and you can get it later. I'll give you a resume." "I'm listening," Morgan said quietly. "And am I," said Metrak, running his black tongue around his horny lips.   the back of his chair. "Let me "Let me read this first." He read it through, said, "Good," then placed it carefully on the table and looked off into some strange nothingness beyond the ceiling. "The Brotherhood is trying to punish itself. That's natural; it always has been. Their religion tells the Brothers that God wants them to live in a cold climate. They must suffer in order to achieve salvation." "Why not suffer in a hot climate?" Metrak asked. "Is not one IF sort of suffering as good as another?" "No," Mikko said, his eyes still somewhere beyond the ceiling. "Hell is hot and they can't suffer in Hell because -- " He stopped abruptly and looked at Metrak. "Professor, shut up. You can get the data from Tress later." Metrak bobbed his head. "Yes. Please continue." Mikko took a sip of his drink. "They -- the Brotherhood -- don't believe in history; only in the Eternal Now." He flicked a glance at Morgan. "In other words, they don't believe in reading and writing, except for their Book of Liturgy. They believe only in oral generation-to-generation transmission of history." He put his glass down gently on the table, next to the dynafax. "We tracked them through Takkarid, right? That's the earliest trace. Eighty-three years ago. Right?" "Right," Morgan murmured softly. Metrak said nothing. "Very well, I am being redun dant," Mikko said. He picked up the dynocrystal brandy glass, drained it and stared at it for a moment before handing it unconsciously to Morgan. "I reiterate without apology," he continued. "The tale we heard on Takkarid is accurate." He got up and walked over to the window, looking out at the city without seeing it. Then he started pacing back and forth in front of the window. "Back up in time. Centuries. I can't nail it down but if we say six or eight hundred years'ago, we'll be in the right order of magnitude. At about that time the Brotherhood of God left Earth." Morgan, who was running a forefinger around the edge of the brandy snifter, violining a perfect B flat from it, stopped suddenly and said: "Earth? Earth?" Mikko didn't stop his pacing. "Earth. Or Alpha Centauri George. Same volume -- and it doesn't matter. But I'm satisfied that it was Earth. The Brotherhood got themselves a ship and took off. They found themselves the planet they were looking for: cold, but not too cold; just enough to make them miserable without Metrak's reverberating voice suddenly said: "Please, Mikko -- a question." Mikko turned away from the window and looked at the little being. "Yes, Professor?" "Why say you it was between six and eight centuries ago?" Mikko used his right forefinger and thumb to massage his nose. He hated being interrupted but he realized that in this case it was necessary. "Before eight hundred years ago," he pointed out, "it would not have been possible for a small group to get hold of a spaceship. The cost was too high, and the ships were too few." Metrak nodded. "True. But since then?" "They are unmutated Old Stock," Mikko said flatly. "Certain?" Metrak asked. "Certain," said Mikko. "Very well. My apologies; continue." Mikko resumed his pacing. "They found the planet they were looking for," he said. "They took off, cruised for God knows how long and accidentally found it." "Then we don't -- " Morgan began. "Just wait," Mikko said calmly. "They found it. They settled down. They figured they were safe from the rest of humanity from then on. They could build up their own society without any trouble. They could rear their children to believe their own particular brand of religious absurdity without having to worry about any outside interference. Happy, happy idiots. Morgan what the tell are you doing?" Morgan was wrapping a length of silver wire around the bell of the dynocrystal brandy glass. He looked up and blinked at Mikko. "What? Oh, nothing! Just fiddling. Get on with it." Mikko flicked a fingernail against the diamonglas of the window. "Very well. The Brotherhood found a planet -- somewhere back then. They liked it. They had a planet that was chilly but not deadly cold. Perfect. Just what they wanted and needed." He turned around to look at his audience again. Morgan was doing something with the glass and the wires that Mikko didn't like to look at. He closed his eyes and very carefully refrained from saying: Morgan! Must you? "Then," Mikko continued, "the planet got too hot for them." Morgan's delicate fingers suddenly stopped moving. "Literally?" "I think so. Quite literally," Mikko said without stopping his steady pacing. "Something happened that changed the climate of the part of the planet where the Brotherhood lived. Changed it radically. The glaciers began to melt. Summers became longer and hotter. Winters became shorter and warmer. There were floods more and more often." He turned and put out a hand, palm up, to Morgan. "What would you say: local or planet wide?" "This happened over a period of years?" Morgan asked. Mikko nodded. "Then I'd say planetwide. Some local change could affect the area for a year or two but anything that drastic, over that long a period of time, would have to be planetwide as far as I can tell. Yes, Mikko, I think you've found it." "Thank you, colleague." Again Mikko resumed his pacing. "But IF this gives us two different planets, doesn't it?" "Right," Morgan agreed. will excuse me," MejL trak said, softly scratching with one tungsten-hard claw. "How does this show there to be two planets? I apologize for my abysmal ignorance. I had understood we were looking for a cold planet that was warming up." "That's right, Professor," Morgan said. "But if the Brotherhood was able to live on this planet before it started warming, it wasn't nearly cold enough. To be the kind of heat-sink required for the project Lloyds is interested in, the surface temperature of the planet would have to be low enough to freeze the atmosphere." Mikko waggled a finger. "There's the further point that if the planet is on the type of cometary orbit we were hypothesizing, there wouldn't be an atmosphere any more. Previous close passes to its A-# sun would have burned off any surface gases." "I take it back, Morgan said. "After due thought I am forced to conclude that you haven't found it after all. Two separate planets in highly eccentric orbits around the same A-# star is a bit much to believe in without practice." "Ah, but you haven't heard all yet." "Excuse my question again, please; could you tell me exactly what is this heat-sink? How do you refrigerate a planet?" Metrak asked, rolling over again and sitting up on his rearmost legs. "Not the whole planet," Morgan said. "Just the environment unit being constructed for the scientists and observers. As a matter of fact, you use the cold of the rest of the planet to protect the observation city." Metrak looked up at Morgan, tilting his head back. The black pupils of his eyes were indistinguishable from the black pigmentation of the rest of the surface of his eyeballs except at very close range, giving him a blank, sightless appearance. "Please, how is that done?" "A heat sink," Morgan said patiently, "is a place where you dump excess heat. The surface of the observation planet is going to get hot rather quickly, so the observation city itself will have to be refrigerated; the heat will have to be pulled out of it. But it will take quite a while for even an A-# sun to heat up a planetary mass with a temperature of three or four degrees all the way to the core. So you drill down several miles and run nickel steel, or high-ytterbium copper tubes down into the planet and use the core itself as the cold end of your refrigerating system. There are other ways -- but that would be the cheapest and probably the most efficient. Do you follow me?" "I do indeed," said the Professor. "I thank you, Morgan. Pardon me, Mikko; I interrupted you. You were saying that we had not yet heard all." "So I was," Mikko agreed. "There is one more datum. Some eighty-three years ago, the Brotherhood left the planet we are discussing and eventually established themselves on the planet where I sojourned with them for a few painful weeks. I discovered, during my study of their Holy History, that while they gave the rise in temperature of their old planet as the moral reason for their leaving it, there was another, rather more immediate reason for leaving. There was a planet falling on them." Morgan looked up sharply. "Ohhhh?" "One of the planets in their system was moving toward them, apparently," Mikko said. "They took it as a sign of collision and catastrophe, so they decided to pack up and go." "Quindar's planet?" asked Morgan. "No," Mikko said. "The planet would have to have been fairly bright in order for them to see it, since they have no telescopes; they don't believe God wants them to use such things. After eighty-three years it must have passed the primary and looped away again." "It gets difficult," Morgan said. "As my great-aunt Agatha has been known to remark, it's always darkest before the dawn," Mikko assured him. "That's one of hers?" Morgan asked. "Right." "No telescopes," Morgan mused. "Fascinating. How did they manage to operate their getaway ship? How did they, come to think of it, manage to justify operating the ship?" "What ship?" Mikko asked. "The reason we stumbled across the reference to them in our, ah, perusal of the personal file hidden in the private safe behind two pair of locked doors in the study of one of the directors of Quindar Engineering," he paused For a breath, "is that they didn't have a ship. At least, not one that worked any more." "Don't sound judgmental," Morgan said. "If they weren't so secretive we wouldn't have to re"Morgan, old friend, let's be honest. If they weren't so secretive we wouldn't have a job. If Lloyds could have gotten the information on the project without hiring us you know damn well they would have; we are very expensive. If there wasn't so much money tied up in the prospective policies, Lloyds wouldn't have bothered. Besides, it's fun." "True," Morgan admitted. IF clipping a small, black, waxy-looking tube onto the maze of silver wire in his hand. A tiny spark ran along the wire, orbiting the brandy glass in what appeared to be several directions at once. Mikko didn't look. "Our friend the director," he explained to Metrak, "was a minor official on the planet the Brotherhood maintained contact with through their one inverse-space portal. It, you see, has no moving parts. As my great-uncle the Duke used to say, if it doesn't move, it must be very deep indeed. "When the planet began to fall on them, the elders called for aid, and our friend was one of those who helped supply it. Shortly after that, he left his post and joined the newly formed Quindar Engineering Corporation. Suggestive?" "Indeed," Metrak agreed. "Most suggestive." "They went out to rescue the Brotherhood," Morgan said, seting his silver-wire wrapped brandy glass down on the nearest table, where it quietly quivered. "They found something. Something the Brotherhood didn't have the instrumentation to discover themselves. Shortly after, they start Quindar Engineering. It must be the same system, somehow." "That's what I -- Morgan, what the hell is that thing?" "This?" Morgan innocently tapped the side of the brandy glass. The room was instantly filled with a low, mellow sound that seemed to be constantly going up in pitch, although it never arrived. "It's a Little Snifter-Operated Cascade Sounder. I plan to manufacture them and retire on the proceeds." "Arrghugh!" Mikko said calmlyMorgan shut the thing off, sadly regarding the slowly melting brandy glass. "It still has a few bugs. You will be pleased to know, Mikko, that we have done something useful. At least, Metrak has done something useful while I provided cover." "I am pleased to know that," Mikko agreed. "What is it that you have done?" "Metrak planted an inverse space portal on the cargo ship we were trying to trace. We couldn't seem to get any information any other way, so we resorted to deception." "Great!" Mikko said. "In the name of my great-grandfather, the rightful King of Faulkenberg, I salute you. But portals aren't directional." "Right. It's going to activate when they come out of drive and send us an analysis of local starspectra.We should be able to figure out where it is from that." "Very clever," Mikko approved. "How did you manage to hook it in to the ship's power supply?" "Not necessary," Metrak told him. "One-time power only. It blows up." "Blows up?" Mikko stared at Morgan. "I prefer to think of it as 'explosive energization," Morgan explained. "You go too far!" Mikko said sternly. "Really! Blowing up a perfectly innocent cargo ship just to -- " "Mikko, come off it. You know I wouldn't do that. Not the whole ship -- just part of it." "Wonder of wonders," Mikko said. "Come along, crew. Tress is waiting." IV den , an aging freighter of Uzorian design and Friedlander registry, the crew took up their breakout stations. On most ships this would have been pointless ritual, since the problems attendant to turning off the flicker drive and returning full time to normal space had been solved over a century ago. On the Umpaul Raat garten it was necessity. Heidigar van Bronk, master and one-tenth owner of the Umpaul Raatgarten , strapped himself into his chair. "Make for all ready," he called into the intercom. A chorus of male voices sounded "All ready!" back at him. "Crew reports all secure," the grating voice of the ship's computer announced. "What from you, you tripleplated imbecile?" Van Bronk asked. "Ship and cargo all secure," the computer replied. "Hah! Very well, Mr. Christianssen, you may proceed already." The pilot nodded and slowly, gingerly brought the control lever back from its full-on position. The Interspace-Phase Flicker Control dial, which was marked logarithmically from I Khz to zero, revolved evenly around its needle to the peg. At about #hz an unsympathetic vibration started building up in the ship's hull: the floors vibrated, the walls shook, the light panels flickered slightly and van Bronk felt nauseated. At #hz a low humming sound came from the ship's speakers. At #hz it came from the walls. Then the needle pegged, all vibration stopped and a rending crash sounded from below. "What in Kriskindom was that?" van Bronk yelled. "An object, mass two hundred kilos, broke loose on delta deck," the computer informed him. "Why the hell wasn't the cargo more securely lashed?" he demanded, releasing the seatweb and striding over to the master control board. "Cargo securely lashed," the computer stated. "Then what the hell was that?" The computer consulted its memory banks, with a keening sound, to establish the master's IF reference. "The that was the ship's water purifier," it said, sounding smug. Van Bronk snapped his feltscribe in half and threw the pieces at the far wall. "Send to delta deck a repair crew," he yelled into the intercom, "and report so soon as possible." "Why does the ship act that way when it comes out of flicker drive?" asked Mr. Christianssen, who had signed on the Umpaul Raatgarten after the last pilot had disappeared on Beedirn. "You tell me, please," van Bronk said. "I have every mechanic in each post we stop go over the drive, and they say, all of them, that there is no reason why it should behave as it does. I should go to Uxor, they tell me. Then I tell them where to go. Also to Uxor should I go to have this computer overhauled. The thing is sealed, and seems to be filled with some kind of green goo. To Uxor I should go. Only with bombs do I go to Uxor. Secure, please, from flicker drive." "Drive secure," the pilot said, flicking the appropriate switch. "Pulse gate discharged. Hull discharged. Scoops in -- " There was a ripping sound and a sudden thud, as if a giant boot had just kicked the ship. "Gott verblast!" van Bronk exclaimed. "Trouble blinker on number two scoop," the pilot said. He consulted his board. "Apparently part of it has ripped away. Yes," he added, flicking the viewer to scan that section of the hull, "that's what happened. The outer corner has ripped loose. I can see one of the vanes drifting away from the ship." A blinding white light filled the viewer. Van Bronk blinked and the light was gone, as was the drifting wreckage. "Double verblast!" he shouted into his pilot's ear. "Now we have exploding vanes. I would not wish my worst enemy to go to Uxor. I will go to Uxor myself and speak gently to the designers of this ship. Send a recognition call," he told the computer, "on the frequency used by this planet." "What planet?" Van Bronk clenched his fists. "I hate you," he told the computer. "The planet we have arrived at, you rasping moron." "Very good," the computer said. It hummed. The main comm-screen lit up, displaying what looked like a handdrawn test pattern. "What ship is that?" a non-commital voice asked. "Verblast!" van Bronk yelled, stepping in front of the viewer. "It is your own specified recognition call we are using. If you don't believe that, what good is my word? We are the Umpaul Raatgarten , for the fourth time. Just as we were last month and three months ago. Four fingers appeared on the test pattern and lifted it out of the way, revealing a round-faced youth with jug ears. Don't get your hippies in an uproar, Captain," he said. "I'm only following my instructions." "Your verdammt instructions are about on a level with everything else which already has happened today. First the water gismo breaks loose, then we have an explosion, then you. I take you with me to Uxor, maybe." "An explosion?" the youth asked. "Wait a second." His face bobbed off the screen, which stayed blank for about three minutes, then an older, darker and thinner face replaced it. "Good afternoon, Captain van Bronk," the new face said. "Here it is night, ship time," van Bronk said. "Good night, Herr Richtman." "Whatever," the head said, an arm appearing and waving afternoonnight away as unimportant. "What's this about an explosion?" Van Bronk shrugged. "One of the vanes ripped off when we came out of flicker drive. From the scoop, you understand. Then it exploded. Poof." "Oh. This was on the outside of the ship, then?" "You show me a ship what has the hydrogen scoops on the inside," van Bronk challenged. "Do you think it could have been sabotage?" "Who would want to blow up a vane after it breaks off the ship? Maybe some conservationists? Afraid it would fall and hit a duck?" "Do vanes usually break off scoops?" Richtman asked. "On this ship? If something doesn't go wrong, then I suspect sabotage." "Well, could it have been some sort of signal?" "It could," van Bronk granted. "It certainly could. Right now it's propagating through space at the speed of light. Inside of three years it will reach the nearest star outside this system. In slightly more than fourteen years it will get to the nearest inhabited planet. Why should I tell you not to worry? In only fourteen years, if they're looking in exactly the right place at exactly the right tenth of a second -- and have some kind of instrument that t can separate that flash from the light of the sun right behind it -- they'll see a flash. Worry." The dark face nodded. "Okay, expert," he said. "Mr. Goodbit has standing instructions to check anything unusual, so I'm checking. Bring your jinx ship in and we'll get it unloaded. The landing beacon's on now." The screen went dark. Van Bronk told the pilot to maneuver the ship into a landing orbit and sat back, quietly wondering what would go wrong next. IF V T respassers w gleamed bright silver on her sunlit side where she rested in space, sharing Beedirn's orbit around its sun. Obviously not built for commerce in either goods or passengers, she was, by deepspace standards, a small, trim ship. It was impossible to tell her function from external appearance: possibly a scout ship or courier for some interstellar navy; possibly a research vessel commissioned by a great university and carrying a complement of dedicated scientists; possibly a revenue cutter, guarding against smugglers and pirates; possibly that ultimate in rich men's toys, a luxurious space yacht. In her fairly short existence she had been most of the above. Her hull was laid in a naval shipyard in expectation of a war which didn't break out. She had served as a pirate-chaser before being sold to the Leadlar Foundation for certain esoteric researches into the positronic flux around collapsed stars. After this five-year mission, the results of which are still being argued by learned bodies of great specialization, she was purchased by a man of great dignity and inherited wealth and refurbished from bowsprit to back plates with nothing less than the very best. The latest ship's computer was brought all the way from Proxit to replace the Navy regulation model. This worthy, on his very first short hop in his new toy, found himself having an argument with his own ship, as represented by her new, ultra-expensive computer. He returned home enraged and ordered the ship sold as scrap; which was done. The hull, "with all appurtenances and dunnage," was sold "in as-is condition, all registered sales being regarded as final," to Mssrs. Morgan Oxbo and Mikko Falkynberg, who were agreeably surprised upon inspecting their purchase. Aside from containing several crates of unopened delicacies and fine wines, the ship had the best computer either of them had ever seen. The previous owner's problem seemed to have been composed in equal parts of his own stubbornness and some very slipshod programing done by his local experts. Since they planned to use their own carefully compounded program anyway, they merely expanded it to utilize the greater abilities of their new machine and were quite content. After several interesting shakedown cruises they decided that the newly christened Trespassers W was ready for action. The fourbeing team: Morgan, Mikko, Metrak the Maxaglorian and Trespassers W, announced very discreetly, in certain select circles, that they were in business. And they had been busy ever since. "Gentlemen," Trespassers W announced in her sweetest voice, "I have received the burst we have been waiting for. Shall I print it for you?" Morgan put dovtfh the soldering pencil he had been using and swiveled around in his chair. "We trust you, Tress," he said. "Just throw it on the screen and give us the analysis." Mikko trotted into the lounge from the galley, mixing bowl still clutched in one pawlike hand and wooden spoon brandished batonlike in the other, and settled on the couch. Metrak looked up from his copy of The Gracious Hostess , one of the books Morgan had purchased for him in Beedirn City, and squatted comfortably on his middle and rear legs. A row of wall panels on the opposite side of the lounge went black. Tress said: "The inversespace portal lasted a full two milliseconds longer than you told me to expect, Morgan, so I have more data than I had planned on -- " and put a complex, chromatic wave pattern onto the black screen. "I have projected here the full spectrum, from infrared to gamma radiation, as received. It is, of course, corrected to conform to your visual range. The actual visible-light part of the spectrum would be this." Here two black bands cut off a small section at the low red end of the pattern. "Very good," Mikko said, thoughtfully staring at the screen while he mixed his batter. "What have we got, Tress?" A portion of the wave pattern disconnected itself from the rest and rose to form a separate chart above. "This would seem to be a representation of the energy blast which activated the inverse-space tube, probably reflected off the hull of the ship carrying it," Tress said. "Yes, I didn't think of that," Morgan said. "I'll try to make a gadget which blows with less radiant energy next time. Anything else?" "The ship seems to have a very dirty hull," Tress commented, then blacked that part of the chart. "What's left," she continued, "is principally the radiation pattern of a G-# type star, about one AU away." "G-#?" Morgan quizzed. "That's a problem," Mikko said, sitting forward in his chair. "What we're looking for is an A-# type and the planet would need to be quite a bit further away." "Now there is something very interesting, gentlemen," Tress said with unmechanical relish. "What's that?" Mikko asked. "Don't be coy, little one." "I notice a slight discontinuity," Tress said, quite evidently proud of her own cleverness. "Notice that if you null all the radiation pattern to be expected from a G-# star -- " here most of the bright display went black, leaving only IF slight wisps of color scattered along the chart, mostly on the very-short wave end -- "there is a ghost left. Upon DeFrybian analysis, this proves to be the reflection of an A-# type star, bounced off the photosphere of the G-#." Morgan frowned. Mikko said, "Of course -- " just as Morgan's frown cleared. "Reflection?" asked Metrak. "Certainly," Mikko said smugly. "That explains a great deal. The star is a binary; one hot component and one cooler one. There are two different planets, but they're in the same system." "How's that?" Morgan asked. "One going around the A-#, and one around the G-#?" "No," Mikko said. "That wouldn't be likely. That would mean that the cold one, Quindar's planet, would be in a highly eccentric orbit around the A-#, approaching its primary at just the specific moment in time that the Brotherhood's planet is warming up because the A-# is approaching it! How does it compute to you, Tress?" "Vanishingly small probability," Tress told them. "The most likely situation is that both planets revolve about the G-#: the first at one AU, plus or minus ten percent, the second much farther out. Assuming the G-# to be stationary, the A-#'s orbit would be a highly eccentric ellipse with a period of from ten to a hundred fifty thousand years. Of course, that is merely a first approximation; I would have to get further data before making any flat statement." "You've checked your Star Catalogue?" Morgan asked. "I have. There are eight possibilities; the data on all are both old and meager. There is also a good probability that the binary is unlisted in the Catalogue." Mikko looked thoughtfully at the glowing overhead and stroked his beard. "It looks very much like what the Brotherhood thought was a planet falling on them eighty-three years ago was an A-# star. It's probably a very good thing they left. Morgan, what is the probability that Quindar's engineers -- or other personnel, for that matter -- suspect that there was something incongruous about that explosion?" "Small, I'd say. Look at it: The power required to energize an ordinary inverse space tube requires a hell of a lot of heavy equipment, even with superconductors in the hundred-degrees-Absolute range. I couldn't have put it in such a small space if I'd intended to stabilize it. I just overloaded the circuits and let 'em blow. Those half again as long as I had any right to expect. The Bender fusion second later, discharged through the silver plasma. Big flash of light, no damage. They wouldn't think of a portal operating. Since it's normally used after it's been established at both ends -- and there's such a slight energy drain once it's stabilized -- I doubt if they'd make the connection. The most likely explanation would be that the scoop field blew when the scoop ripped off." Mikko nodded. "Excellent. Then it's highly unlikely that they'll be expecting us. "Tress, taking into account the time between the takeoff of the Umpaul Raatgarten and the flash through the inverse space tube, and the pseudovelocity of the ship, find that binary for us." "Computing," said Tress. VI JCTress announced. There was a slight lurch, accompanied by an audible click and a subtle feeling of continuous deceleration as the gravity field rephased. The three-fourths of the team that were not built into the ship had gathered in the control room, each in the compleat designed for him. The two humans' compleats resembled overstuffed executive chairs, and Metrak's looked like a squashed trundle-bed. Mikko hunched forward to examine the available readouts. "What does it look like?" "Information is not yet complete," Tress answered him testily. "When will you know if this is the system?" Morgan asked. "The probability is point ninenine-three that this is the system," Tress replied. Two lights appeared on an overhead screen. "This is the G-# star. This other is the A-#." A dotted line sprang out from one light, assuming an eggshape which circled the other light, then ran off the screen. "That's a first approximation of the orbit. I'll need about two standard days' observations to refine it." Three more lights appeared, one with a more nearly circular dotted line. "There are the observable planets. I have one orbit -- no, two." A second dotted circle appeared. "Which are the planets we're looking for?" Metrak asked. "Here's another," Tress said, lighting another spot on the screen. "The second out from the sun would appear to be the Earthlike one. The fourth -- no, fifth -- " she added another dot after the second " -- will be the planet that approaches the A-# star as it reaches apasteron. The closest point will occur in slightly under two standard years. It will graph like this -- " The two dots moved in their orbits until they met and appeared to merge. Then the dot representing the star pulled ahead of the planetary dot in its fall toward apasteron. "Here are the figures -- " A page of formulae appeared on the screen. IF "Thank you, Tress," Morgan said. "Thank you very much." He swung his compleat around to face his companions. "Well, we've found it. What now?" "Now," said Mikko Falkynberg decisively, "we sneak into a high orbit over thatinner planet and take a long look at what is going on down there. Tress, we want a nearly circular, transpolar orbit at about two diameters out, with a minimum use of power -- drive muffled and as little radiation as possible." "Computing," Tress acknowledged. It took time. Time to fall into the prescribed orbit, time to take the careful observations of the surface, time to analyze the meanings of the recordings. During that time four ships under full operating power came, stayed and went from the planet's surface. Tress reported faithfully that each of them had come from the cold outer planet and returned there. Morgan was asleep after grueling hours of work the previous day when Mikko said to Tress: "Let me see Eighty-four Zeta again." "Area Zeta, Composite Eightyfour," Tress announced as she lit up a screen. On it appeared a portion of the planet's surface. Because of the planetwide change in weather the cloud cover was dense and widespread. Each time Tress had taken a shot, she had made a probability estimate of the actual surface she could see and ignored the clouds. After eighty-four separate shots, the composite map was bare of clouds. Mikko stared at it for several minutes, then nodded. "Yes. That's it. Up here -- he tapped the screen with his stylus -- "are the big plants. Probably mining and smelting. Spacefield over here. All fine. But -- " he dropped the point of his stylus a hundred and thirty kilometers to the south -- "what is this? Another spaceport?" "Possibly. It reminds me of something else," Mikko said thoughtfully. "Check this against the shots of the Brotherhood's new planet -- the shots showing the village." "Ah," Tress said after a few seconds. "You're right, Mikko. There is a definite similarity. That is most probably the village built by the Brotherhood when they lived here." "Are there any indications that it is being used presently?" "None." Mikko smiled with satisfaction. "Excellent. That gives us our approach. Now, how about Quindar's communications?" He wasn't asking about communications through an inverse space tube. An inverse space tube is not, of course, a tube, but it can be thought of as one. Two matched portals, when energized, correspond to two ends of a tube. Or, more exactly, to opposite sides of a disk of zero thickness, no matter how distant they were from each other in "real" space. The initial energization requires tremendous power, but it can be maintained with only a trickle of current after the match is stabilized. Early mathematical treatment of inverse space indicated that anything moving through inverse space experienced negative time. If, for instance, one end happened to be exactly one light-year from the other, anything traversing the "tube" would emerge from the portal a year earlier than it had started. That proved to involve an insoluble paradox. The fact is that the time involved is zero; two portals are opposite sides of a single mathematically two-dimensional disc. Obviously, no material particle can go through the "tube." Only particles having an intrinsic velocity of c -- photons and neutrinos -- can jump the interface. Communication via inverse space requires only a couple of but there is no way to tap the line, for the communication does not exist in "real" space. However, although the amount of power required to maintain the tube is small, setting it up initially requires a great deal of power, and there is no point in that at merely planetary distances. Tress could easily tap their comm lines. "The probability is point nineseven-three," she said, "that they are mining and smelting copper. But I do not understand the high breakdown factor of their working units. Working units should not break down that often." "I agree," said Mikko slowly. "The trouble with their troubles is that they are apparently not troubled by them." "I wish you wouldn't do that," said Tress in a plaintive tone. "You used the word 'trouble' in at least two and more probably three different ways. And your pronouns are vague. I do not understand." "Neither do #," said Morgan from the control door, "but not for the same reason." "I mean," Mikko said distinctly and somewhat testily, "that I'm bothered by the fact that the difficulties they seem to be having are apparently not disturbing them." "Noted -- filed for correlation," said Tress. "May I ask your basis?" "Just what I was wondering," Morgan said. "That group of messages," Mikko explained, "all say something like: 'Five working units nonfunctional. Four additional units required. Send nine units.' And back comes the reply: 'Nine units will be shipped within twelve hours.' "Nobody ever says: 'We are running short of units.' Or: 'Those things cost money.' Or: 'Repair old units.' Morgan, if these boys IF are running this enterprise on a thread -- which they must be to aren't they more careful with their investments?" Metrak, who had been dozing quietly in his compleat for the past several hours, opened one anthricite eye. "Why do we not go down and see?" "Thank you, Professor," Mikko said. "I was about to suggest exactly that." cavi, a space yacht of Beedirn registry which looked suspiciously like the Trespassers W if you had a nasty, suspicious mind, fell in an injured-drive-tube way into a close orbit about the planet, beaming a distress signal on all appropriate frequencies. After two orbits, when it had become obvious to the Quindar men who were observing her that the problem ship would not go away or explode or in some other way solve the problem by herself, the ship's comscreen lit up to display a simple test pattern. "What ship is that?" the pattern asked in a young-sounding male voice. "Peccavi, out of Beedirn," Morgan replied. "What class?" "Private registry," Morgan said, fingering his ruffed collar with just the proper air of bored aristocracy. Tress's voice whispered in his ear. "Photo laser pulse just ended. That's the fourth. There have been three scans with sigma searchbeams and there is almost continuous radar." "Maybe they're doing an album," Morgan murmured. "What seems to be the trouble?" the test pattern asked. "Don't really know," Morgan said. "Something about the tubes or some such. Something about patterns, you know." "Depatternization of the tube cathodes?" "That's the phrase," Morgan said gratefully. "The ship knows what's wrong. Says we can't go any farther until the tube thingies are fixed. Permission requested to land and make necessary repairs. We'll pay, of course." A dull humming sound came through the speakers as the microphone at the other end was cut off. The people on the planet were presented with a problem. What they wanted, it was clear, was for the ship to go away as fast as possible. But under one of the few universally recognized laws, the Uniform Universal Space Calamity Act, a ship requesting aid or assistance of an inhabited planet, outpost, mining "or research station had to be granted such aid. If they refused to help, they would have more -- and more official -- company nosing around as soon as the incident was reported. The test pattern was replaced by a close-in teleview of a dark, triangular head, rising from pointed chin to flat-cut hair. Wide set eyes balanced over a small nose, centered above thin lips, which moved: "Greetings. I apologize for the delay. My subordinate had to inform me of your request." I'll bet, Morgan thought. "Of course you must land as soon as possible. We should be able to effect repairs to your yacht almost immediately. There'll be no question of payment." "I humbly thank you, esteemed sir. We shall try not to impose on your hospitality." "Yes," Thinlips agreed. "You have, naturally, had your quaramine vitus inoculations?" "Our who?" Morgan asked. "Quaramine vitus. It's a plasmoid disease indigenous to this planet." "Never heard of it," Morgan said truthfully. "I guess we'll have to take the inoculatioqj when we land." Thinlips shook his head regretfully. "I am sorry, but the inoculation takes two weeks to produce the required antibodies. I must request you to remain in the ship with the airlock sealed and allow us to make the repairs. I'll see that the landing beacon is turned on now -- just follow it in." Morgan said, "I must thank you for your aid and consideration." Thinlips nodded and blanked off. Mikko Falkynberg leaned back and folded his arms across his heavy chest. "Well? Correct me if I was wrong." Before Morgan could speak, Tress said: "No correction necessary. You said that they would have an apparently valid excuse to keep the three of you sealed in." Morgan smiled far too sweetly. "And he was right. Very well, Tress, my love -- execute the Falkynberg plan." Trespassers W began dropping toward the Quindar spaceport in a neat landing orbit while the men below watched it carefully on their tracer screens: All seemed to be well for the first few minutes. Then the ship lurched suddenly and slid off her orbit, moving southward. " Peccavi V snapped one of the watchers. "What's the idea, there?" "Not our idea, I assure you," came the cultured voice. "The drive's bucking up. We're trying to correct." "Get back on the prescribed landing orbit -- or you'll crash!" "We know," Morgan said, suddenly harsh. "Leave us alone so we can correct." The thin-lipped man cut off his voice pickup. And grinned. "All right," he said, "let 'em crack up. Save us a lot of trouble, and it will look right on the records." IF On the screens the ship buckled and twisted, as if trying to regain control of a terribly faulty drive. Morgan, Mikko and Metrak, couched in their compleats, still felt the surges and accelerations that assaulted them, but Tress had computed her antics to a nicety. At the last moment, she braked, swerved, settled and came down neatly to a relatively soft landing in the middle of the square in the center of the long-deserted Brotherhood village. T HE men in the Quindar spaceport hunched forward in their chairs like a group of ill-controlled marionettes, waiting. Thinlips turned from the radar screen to check an oscillocom reading. He stared at it expressionlessly for a long moment and announced: "They've landed." "Good!" A short man in back of the room pushed away from his chair and started pacing the floor, his arms locked behind him. Thin black hair brushed neatly away from his high, domed forehead, severe, almost military clothing and a certain precision of manner gave him an air of importance that somehow made him seem even shorter -- not merely a small man but the king of the midgets. "You must send someone out to inspect the wreckage. Where did they crash?" "They didn't crash, Mister Goodbit, they landed. The seismo would have indicated a crash." "Landed?" Goodbit stopped pacing. "What does that mean? Where? We must send an inspection team at once!" "Yessir. As soon as I -- " The comscreen lit. "Help! Can you hear me? Send someone to help, please!" The screen showed the control room of the Peccavi, which was filled with billowing clouds of dense, gray smoke. Tongues of flame licked up from behind a twisted panel in the background. The image was so realistic that the watchers could almost smell the burning insulation. "Help," the coughing face in the screen pleaded, tears streaming from the corners of reddened eyes. Richtman hit the call button. "I hear you. What happened?" "I don't know. We hit the ground and smoke started coming out of everything and nothing works and we can't -- " The screen went blank. "They -- ah -- seem to be having trouble," Goodbit said with a slight smile. "Yessir. I'll send a cargo aircar out as soon as I can get some firefighting equipment aboard," Richtman said, swiveling in his chair. "Now, now, Richtman; let us not be hasty. Precipitous action is always to be avoided. We must consider the situation." "Excuse me. Mister Goodbit, but what's to consider? If we don't get there quickly they'll probably burn to death!" "So?" Goodbit's eyes flashed. "You may be right. Yes, on consideration I think you are right. We must certainly get help to the poor, unfortunate crew of that vessel. Load the aircar -- but not in haste, you understand. Set out for the wreck as soon as the car is loaded. Take along a photographer so we may record the details of the demise of the victims of this terrible crash -- we must make up a full report to send to Beedirn. What a pity." "Very good, sir," Richtman said. "All deliberate speed it is. I hope they don't send an investigation committee." "I think it highly unlikely. Take good, clear photographs." "Yessir." "Now," Goodbit dismissed the wrecked spacecraft with a wave of his well-manicured hand. "What about the copper situation, Dolemort? The main shaft of the heatsink is four days behind schedule." Dolemort, a grossly fat man who was squeezed into one of the side chairs, laced his sausagelike fingers together nervously. "We can't use any more of the locals and expect the food supply to keep up. The present, ah, working units are getting weak. They can't work as hard." "What?" Goodbit asked gently. "Can't?" "Yes, sir, that's right." Dolemort quivered. "The free locals still bring food for the, ah, impressed units -- but the quality has gone down. There aren't enough of them left." "Well pick up the rest of them and put them to work. They don't have to eat well. Throw together some kind of nutritional gruel out of the stores. We'll get enough work out of them to finish the job." "Yes, sir." "Tell them it's punishment for the man -- what's his name -- that disappeared. They'll understand that. A very moral lot." "Yes, sir." "Get up to quota," Goodbit said, smiling calmly, "or I'll stick a shovel in your fat hands!" Nodding to the group, he walked from the room. door of the airlock open just wide enough, Mikko said: "Out, Professor! Bounce!" Metrak literally did just that -- shot out of the airlock at better than two hundred kilometers per hour, curled himself into a ball in mid-flight and arched high above the low buildings that stood in decaying ruin around the central square of what had been a Brotherhood village more than eight decades before. He struck the ground far beyond the limits of IF the dead village and rolled nearly half a kilometer down a rocky slope before coming to a halt. He shook himself off, flexed his incredibly tough Maxaglorian muscles and scrambled up the next slope, heading northward at an easy run, averaging eighty-five kilometers an hour over the rough ground. Mikko and Morgan watched the screens, looking for any movement, any indication that the Professor had been observed. "Anything, Tress?" Morgan asked softly. "Nothing. There is no sign of radiation in the electromagnetic spectrum that indicates any form of communication nearby. The only anomaly is the relatively strong source of energy centering around the two-fifty to two-sixty gigahertz region, coming from -- " a picture flashed on the screen -- "that building. A small fire, apparently dying, since the radiation is decreasing." "Look closely at the chimney," Morgan told Mikko. A barely visible wisp of smoke was coming from the crumbling stone tube. "Tress," Morgan asked, "are any human beings around?" "The ambient temperature is almost exactly three hundred degrees; to detect a body radiating some ten degrees higher is easy at short range, provided insulating clothing is not being worn. Assuming normal human clothing for this temperature, and excluding the interior of that particular building, the probability is eightyseven percent that there are no human beings within one hundred meters; sixty-five percent that there are none within five hundred meters. There is, however, a fiftyeight percent chance that there is at least one but not more than two within a thousand meters." "Check vertical heat convection currents," Morgan said. "I did." There was indignation in her voice. "Mikko's instruction wish a readout?" "No," said Morgan. He looked at Mikko, who was regarding the scene with narrowed eyes. "Any ideas?" "Certainly," said Mikko without turning his head. "A good many. It might, for instance, be a volcanic fumarole. Tress?" "A probability of point oh-ohfour." Mikko was unperturbed. "The two most likely situations, as I see it are: One, that whoever built that fire is -- or are -- still inside, which would make them difficult to detect against the background radiation; two, that whoever built it heard us dropping down and fled precipitately to the hinterlands. Tress?" "Indeterminable. Your guess is as good as mine," said Tress. Mikko thinned his lips but said nothing. Morgan had sneaked that phrase in and Mikko knew it. "Whoever built that fire is most assuredly not part of the secretive group at Quindar's spaceport," Morgan offered. "Probability, I'd say, over ninety-five percent." "Tress?" Mikko asked. In a sardonic, sing-song voice, Tress said, "The computation of human motivation is beyond the capability of my programing." "So? Well, as my great grandfather is reputed to have said before the action that won him his third Nova, there's probably nothing to it -- but we'd better go take a look." "I tip my hat to your great grandfather," Morgan said. "Let us deploy and reconnoiter. Swords and bucklers for the landing party if you please, Tress." A concealed locker door slid open, revealing a row of sidearms: Course-Berryman handguns, with their bulbous grips and fragilelooking, translucent blue tubes; squat Delancing pistols, firing anaesthetizing darts; heavy, beautifully machined MacGregor slugthrowers; and slender Whompers. The gunbelts and holsters were neatly hanging from a line of hooks above. In the drawers below were ammunition, cleaning and repair equipment and spare parts. Shoulder-stock and heavier weapons were in the next two lockers. "I'll take a Delancing," Morgan decided, wrapping the appropriate belt tightly around his middle. "I'm a traditionalist," Mikko declared, buckling on the massive MacGregor. "I'll see if I can ship you up a crossbow," said Morgan. "Let's head out by the number-three hatch, so we can circle around to the building without being seen." "A crossbow?" Mikko considered. "I have no quarrel with that." Tress dilated the lock as they reached it. "Goodbye," she said, contracting it behind them. "A high proportional probability of success on your venture." "What's that?" Mikko asked. "Good luck." Mikko glared at Morgan, who did his best to look innocent. Neither of them spoke as they reached the nearest of the crumbling houses, long deserted by the Brotherhood, and started working their way around toward the thin wisp of smoke. No words were necessary to this pair, who had worked together for longer than either liked to admit, except in serious emergencies. Normal operations went as smoothly as though their four hands were controlled from a single brain. They worked their way around the second corner of the square and picked carefully through the rubble toward their objective. Nothing else was moving; the smoke from the chimney, now reduced to a rising haze, was the IF only sign of life they could detect. At the back of the building they flattened themselves against the wall on each side of the alleyway that led to the rear door. "Tradesmen's entrance?" Morgan asked quietly. "Garbage disposal," Mikko told him. "Leads to what passes for a kitchen. Me first." "Right." Mikko pulled the MacGregor from its holster and led the way gingerly down the narrow alley. He heard a soft thud behind him and turned to see Morgan pitching forward to the ground. He sensed a flicker of motion above him -- but before his eyes had a chance to focus on it a sharp pain shot through the side of his head and the ground rose up to cushion him. There was a ringing in his brain and no feeling. Maxaglor viewed the scene in the smoking valley below with the dispassionate eyes of the scholar. His brain recorded. There was no way of communicating with Tress; the Quindar people would have every detector they had open and ready, looking for any sort of communication. An FM laser might have been fairly safe but a couple of mountains stood between Metrak and Tress, neither of which was observably transparent. He had already seen two big transport aircars lift up high and drift southward at no great rate. They were, he was certain, "rescuers" who were, understandably enough, not in any big hurry to arrive at their destination. But they had climbed high quickly in order to be in the line of sight of the putative Peccavi. They probably did not really expect anything but they would be fools indeed if they failed to take every precaution. Metrak had no fear that they would spot him from the air. A Maxaglorian's energy requirements were such that, to him the phrase "conservation of energy" referred to a biological necessity rather than a law of physics. His hide was tougher than wrought iron and harder than tungsten carbide, but its heat conductivity was a variable controlled by his nervous system. He could hold his heat as easily as he could hold his breath, and his highly efficient metabolic processes did not generate much waste heat. As far as optical spotting was concerned, he was only another oddly shaped black boulder among many oddly shaped black boulders. Below him the valley smoked. With one of his hands he eased the binocular surveyor from the special pouch under his belly and, bracing himself carefully, applied his obsidian eyes to the eyecups. His fingers manipulated the controls on either side, shifting the lined reticule which framed his field of vision. The great open-pit mine was roughly circular and some six point four kilometers in diameter. It had obviously been worked for many years. The smoke came from the smelters over to the north, three point one kilometers away. The air reeked of sulfur dioxide in the air. That, Metrak told himself with satisfaction, was one way Quindar was saving money. No anti-pollution devices, a crime ranked as a felony on any settled planet. Metrak flicked the zoom control and centered in on a long line of workers moving truckloads of ore up the spiral road from the central depths of the mine toward the upper periphery. They were large (by Metrak's standards), furry beings with thin, scale-covered legs and arms. Their heads would have reminded Metrak of an English sheepdog, had he ever had the fortune to observe a specimen of that breed, which had only a few years before been recreated after centuries of genetic abeyance. A sudden movement caught the professor's eye. He moved his binoc a little to center the area where the action was taking place. One of the autochthons had fallen. As Metrak watched, the birdlike extremities drew into the hair covering the body, the head pulled in until it was only a slight bulge on the nearly spherical ball. The result looked something like a large beachball made of yak hide. The recording camera in the binoc hummed an almost inaudible D-flat as the little being watched. The line of native orebearers stopped. Metrak heard a noise very faintly from below. One of his middle hands took out a collapsed sound pickup, expanded it and clipped it to the side of the binoc; automatically focusing the sound intensifier on the scene he was watching. The faint sound became a high keening as Metrak clipped the button speaker over his earslot. He backed off the zoom on the binoc to take in more of the scene and went on watching and listening. The keening continued, the orebearers staying in place around their fallen comrade. After several minutes a small observation platform, looking like a flying bridge table, skimmed over to the stopped workers and settled softly until its ground-effect cage touched the dirt. One of the two humans on it unclipped himself from his harness and climbed down, while the other stayed behind the control stick, hefting a large shock-gun and looking nervous. "Howja figure it?"the one who IF climbed down asked, his voice coming in small and clear over Metrak's button speaker. "One minute the hairball's workin' along fine, the next he's keeled over and tucked up." He bent over to examine the furry beachball. "Just another deader," the one on the platform said. "Come on, let's get out of here." "Don't be so nervous. Just keep that gun handy. Yah, this's a deader." He looked around at the cluster of natives. "You and you -- get rid of 'im!" He waved a hand at the featureless ball of hair at his feet. "And back quick, you understand Back quick or we give your friends a dose!" He waved at his buddy on the platform, who brandished his shock-gun menacingly. "Unnastan!" said one of the two chosen autochthons in a high, buzzy voice. "Bag gwig! No gill frems! Bag gwig!" "All right! Get movin', then. Go!" The two chosen ones moved rapidly, grabbing their fallen comrade by clutching their three-fingered talons in its hair and trotting off. The keening stopped. "All right! Move it!" said the human with the shock-gun. But his command was unnecessary; the orebearers had already begun to go on with their task. Metrak followed the departing funeral procession in his binoc until he saw it vanish over the crest of a distant hill. Then he packed up his equipment and departed -- stealthily at first, then gaining speed, moving circuitously after the pair of autochthons until he had them back in sight. The natives and their burden, with Metrak a distance behind them, soon arrived at their destination. It was a narrow valley through which ran a snowmeltswollen, swift-running river. Without ceremony they placed their furball burden on the bank of the river, a few meters from the water's edge, then took off back the way they had come. Metrak stayed and watched. Some time later a large raft appeared upstream. Made up of bundles of small logs, it was roughly triangular in shape with the blunt end forward and two long sides leading to a pointed stern. Along both sides were a row of natives with thick poles, trying to keep the unwieldy craft steady in the rapid river current. One of the autochthons spotted the body. It screeched something Metrak didn't understand and the group poled to shore. As the raft got closer to where Metrak crouched behind a convenient rock on the ridge line overlooking the river, he could see that the central area of the craft was filled with contracted autochthons like the one on the bank. Two of the polers hopped ashore, grabbed the body and swung it aboard. Then they jumped back themselves and resumed their places as the raft continued its perilous way downstream. When the raft was well past him, Metrak leaped up to the ridge line and, breaking into an easy lope, began to follow it. dimly on the fact that his back was cold. And uncomfortable. A voice was niggling at his brain. "My dear Morgan, do yourself the favor of waking up. If you keep lying on this cold stone you will get a devil of a chill -- and I am not in any condition to hold you in my arms. Besides, I just saw your eyelids flutter." A pause. Then: "Dammit, Morgan! Wake up!" He opened his eyes. The white light of a sun seen from entirely too close seared his vision, accompanied by a thunder of pain. His eyes blinked shut but the pain did not go away. He groaned. "That's a start, dear friend. That's a start. Open your eyes. Not that there's anything to see -- but you've got to get up before your back freezes solid to the stone. Come on, now -- open your eyes." Morgan tried again. This time it was a little better. The sun seemed to have receded a bit. The pain was constant, but pain can be handled. He blinked several times and the blinding light slowly died down to a greenish blue as his irises contracted to the appropriate aperture. "Mikko?" he asked. "In the flesh. Very much in the flesh. How do you feel?" The blur took shape. Mikko towered over him. Something was strange. "I don't know how I -- ow -- feel. Is the back of my head still connected to the front?" "As far as I can tell. You were struck by a rock about the size of your fist, judging by the bruised area. Skin broken, surface bleeding, but no deeper damage. Don't feel alone -- I was similarly treated. I must have a harder head." Morgan tried shaking his head to clear away the fuzziness but the back of his skull protested sharply. He sat up and was rewarded with a wave of nausea. After threatening his stomach a while, it passed, and his brain gave signs of starting to function. "Where are we?" He looked up at Mikko and realized what had seemed strange before. "Mikko, you're naked!" Mikko was bouncing from foot to foot and slapping his arms across his belly to warm up. "I am. You are. It would seem. to be the way of the world in our rather confined quarters." "I am? I am! That's why I'm so cold. Where are we? And what, in the name of the Seven Aspects, happened?" He looked around. The stone floor on which he was IF sitting spread out in all directions to form the base of a square room. The walls, also of stone, rose up to a height of about three meters before being capped by a domed slab ceiling. Greenish light seeped in through two vine-covered slits in the far wall. An odor of mildew pervaded the damp chill air. Running across the room from left to right stood a row of closely spaced iron bars, anchored in floor and ceiling -- they cut the room into two unequal rectangles. The only entrance to the room was on the other side of the bars -- a low, iron door set into the far wall. Between the two men and the bars ran a small river. "We," said Mikko, "are in a contemplation cell -- the Brotherhood's contribution to the science of penology. The gentleman in the corner has been contemplating for quite some time now." "Brotherhood?" Morgan rubbed his aching head and tried to focus his eyes on a dimly perceptible figure lying in fetal sleep on a mound of something in the corner. "How did they get into this? I mean here and now."  "They aren't here and now," said Mikko, "but this is one of their relics. I have seen their latest model. Almost ended up in it. It's designed to allow one to contemplate one's sins until one repents of them. This place is almost identical." He swung his left arm in an arc, palm upward. "This was originally a small stream. It enters through a hole some thirty centimeters on a side and originally flowed through a shallow trough of the same dimensions and on through the exit, over to your right. Drinking water to the left, sanitary facilities to the right. Simple, eh?" "Very," said Morgan, carefully exploring the knot on the right side of his head. "You call it simple, I call it barbaric. But we agree." "Thank you. At its best, this place was never comfortable. The ten-degree slope toward that open drain wouldn't be easy to sleep on -- and the slope from left to right is fifteen to eighteen degrees." "That flow before us is no small stream," Morgan said. "It's damn near a river. Since the Brotherhood left, the ice to the north has been melting. We have a flood here, Mikko." "Exactly," Mikko said agreeably. "That rivulet is now over a meter deep in the center and even deeper to the right. I assume we were brought in across the left end, where it's narrower and shallower. Up there, you see, where the waters do not yet wash the bars. There's a door in the bars, if you will notice." "You've tried it," Morgan said. A statement, not a question. "Of course. A simple lock. You and I have extricated ourselves from far more complicated ones. Morgan nodded. If Mikko But." Falkynberg had searched the place, "But not without tools. Right, the job had been done as thoroughAnd there are none." Morgan ly as if Morgan himself had done rubbed his hands together in a vain it. A stray twinge of pain shot effort to keep them from turning through Morgan's scalp and he blue. Stomping his bare feet winced. "How did they get us, against that icy stone didn't help Mikko? Tress said there was no much either. one around. How could they have "No tools, "-Mikko said. "And sneaked up on us? Both of us?" no tools to make tools, if you fol"From the roof," Mikko low. No free stone, wood, or metgrowled. "They dropped rocks on al. I have looked." us from the roof." After a half second Morgan -- the ambient temperature. How jerked his head around to stare at could she spot them? Picture a Mikko. "The rooj? You're out of brown, fur-covered ball about a your skull! Tress would have seen meter in diameter, with a hairy, anyone on the roof! She said there human-sized head and lean, birdwere no human beings within half like, squamous arms and legs -- a kilometer. She -- " two each, bilateral symmetry. "She was right," Mikko cut Three fingers on each hand, equalhim off sharply. "Beings, yes; ly sized, equally spaced, and equalhuman, no. The intelligent autochly opposable. Our hosts." tons of this planet. Their body "I see," Morgan said. "Intellitemperature is apparently at or gent autochthons. And you never slightly lower than three hundred mentioned them." his right hand and slammed the fist into his left palm. "I confess to stupidity, my dear Morgan. The Brotherhood never mentioned any local intelligent life forms and I made the assumption that there were none. Worse, they stated that there were no intelligent natives -- and I believed them." "Why should they lie?" Morgan asked. "Exactly. They didn't." "You mean they never saw the native beings?" Morgan looked puzzledly at Mikko. "No, the natives were seen, all right. And described to me. And that is why I am culpable. I failed to allow for the Brotherhood's blind spot. By their religious beliefs, there are no true beings except those of Terran descent. All others are animals." He glowered at the far wall. "I should have known." "Have you actually seen the locals?" Morgan asked. "Certainly." Mikko took a deep breath. "They brought us our lunch." Morgan suddenly realized that the pain was not all centered in his head; part of it lay growling in his abdomen. "Food? Where? Is there any left?" Mikko gestured toward a slate slab on the sloping floor a few feet away. "Help yourself." Chilled to the bone, Morgan walked over to the slab and squatted down. He saw a pile of graygreen, soggy-looking lumps. Picking up one of the lumps, he bit off a small portion and chewed it. It tasted something like boiled sawdust, with a delicate dusting of sand, exquisitely spiced with epsom salts. He spat. "How's the water?" "Try it," Mikko said. "Carefully." Morgan approached the edge of the water, which looked blue-green in the filtered light, and put a hand in. "Ice cold! Brrr!" He splashed some on his face, which made him feel better, then he tasted it. "A little sour and metallic, but not too bad." He rinsed his mouth with it, spat it out. "I'd hate to have to drink it for long. I -- " He was interrupted by a wordless scream. Morgan and Mikko spun around to find their cellmate sitting up on his mound. His skinny arm was stretched out and a bony finger pointed at them. "Get out!" he screamed. "I see you there -- you can't fool me again!" His skin was taut over his ribs and shoulders and his pale, gaunt face held deep-set eyes, framed by wide, black circles. "Away!" he yelled. "Leap up with whips and flay -- more work today!" His voice rose to a high scream and he pitched over backwards and lay silent. "What," Morgan demanded, "was that all about?" IF "I don't know," Mikko told him. "He seemed to be lucid when I talked to him before. He had trouble staying awake long enough to talk and was obviously very sick -- but not delerious." "Nightmare," Morgan suggested. They went over to the sleeping man and looked closely at him. "I have no idea what to do for him. Do you?" "Yes," Mikko said. "Get him out of here. Also get us out of here before we catch whatever he's got." "What's that he's lying on?" Morgan asked, staring down at the black, lumpy surface. "I'd say it was straw once, about eighty-five years ago before the Brotherhood left. Call it what you want to now." "Argh!" Morgan exclaimed, rubbing his side. "It's cold in here. How do we get out?" "You tell me," Mikko suggested. "Those wrought-iroti bars have a surface coating of rust but they're still solid after all this time. If they hadn't taken all our clothes we could call Tress or the Professor." "If they hadn't taken all our clothes I wouldn't be so cold," Morgan said. "Maybe if we yelled Tress would hear us. Do you know what part of the square this here jail is at?" "If it's built the same way the Brotherhood built the one on their new planet, it's about five kilometers out of town. I can't yell that loud." "Why so far?" Mikko shrugged. "Isolation mostly. Except for the once-aday visit by whoever brought his food, anyone in -- ah -- contemplation wouldn't see or talk to a soul." Morgan waded across the narrow part of the water supply and pulled at the bars. "Solid. The Brotherhood built for the ages, unfortunately." He splashed back and sat down, then changed his mind and stood back up. "What's our mad friend doing in here?" . "He's with Quindar. Thinks we are too, so if he wakes up sane don't say him nay. The natives captured him for revenge, evidently." "Revenge, huh? They're being mistreated?" "Quindar's got some mines in the hills. They're fabricating equipment up there. Using the natives as slave labor in the mines and plants." " Yeesh ," Morgan muttered, wiping at his legs with his hands, trying to get the water off, "that table. Slavery? Slavery isn't profitable." "Don't be ridiculous," said Mikko. "It often has been, it can be, and in the present circumstances it is. Why do you think we aren't dead?" The apparent change of subject didn't faze Morgan Oxbo; he was used to Mikko's mental operations. "That had occurred to me. Why?" "As my sainted great granduncle, the last Bishop of Domermeve said, just before his martyrdom, These are a gentle people.' " "I rejoice that they are not vicious," Morgan said, gently touching his head with numb fingers. "So?" "According to what I gleaned from our recumbent cellmate," Mikko continued, "the local gentry are a gregarious, highly socialized species. Capture a group of them and each will work to keep his friends and relatives from being harmed; furthermore, other friends and relatives will actually bring them foocT if permitted to do so. They are generally docile and have the approximate intelligence of a medium-grade moron." Morgan nodded. "What a sweet setup for slavery. And I suppose they've decided to capture a few humans to force Quindar Incorporated to stop what they're doing. Make a fair trade and call everything off." "I assume so. They're trying to take care of us, keep us healthy. They feed us regularly. They even give us a nice cool cell. To them, the weather out there must be blisteringly hot. Poor devils; when that A-# gets in close and the incident radiation is increased by twenty percent, they're really going to know what a hot summer is. They -- " Mikko was cut off by the hoarse voice of the third man. "Hey. Hey, you guys. Com'ere. Please com'ere." "Sure, fella," said Morgan as the partners walked over to the hummock of humus upon which the man lay. "Is there anything we can do?" He knew there wasn't; if there had been, Mikko would have already done it. Or still be doing it. "Nah, nah. F'git it." His voice was weak and slurred. He retched suddenly; nothing came up. "Uhhh. Sorrry. Sick Dizzy. Headache. Gutache. Uhhh!" Again he retched dryly. Mikko Falkynberg picked up the man's flaccid wrist and applied his fingers to the artery at the base of the thumb. "Just take it easy, my friend," he said. Pulse: soft and weak. Respiration : shallow and rapid. And, in spite of the chill, there was a thin film of clammy sweat over the man's skin. In the dim light that came from the leaden skies and filtered greenish through the vine-covered slit high up in the far wall, the man looked ghastly. His half-closed eyes were obviously neither focusing nor tracking and his teeth, gums and tongue looked even a darker green than his skin. Suddenly, with extraordinary strength, he grasped Morgan's hand. "Gotta get outa here, guys!" IF There was strength and sanity in his voice despite its whispery tone and almost inaudible volume. "Those hairballs are tryin' to kill us. Already got me. Poison in the food. I held out for a while but I got so hungry I hadda eat. Had to. Understand?" "Sure," said Morgan. "Sure. I was, hell, starving hungry. Sick even then -- cold, sick, miserable. Had to eat that slop. Got it down for a while, then -- " Again he retched, more violently this time, giving more meaning to his statement than any words could. He feebly spat out greenish saliva, swallowed dryly. For a moment his eyes swam. Then they tried to focus on Mikko's face. "Get out. Two guys could maybe get out, somehow, someway. Tell Goodbit. Leave me here. I'll be okay. Couldn't move anyhow. But don't eat the food. Dont -- eat -- the -- food ! ' ' He closed his eyes and was silent for a moment. Then he went into weak, shuddering convulsions that lasted nearly ten minutes while Mikko and Morgan held him. Then he lay still. Mikko checked the pulse. Nothing. He pulled a couple of hairs from the crown of his head and placed them over the man's nostrils and lips. They did not move. After a minute Morgan said: "He's dead." Mikko nodded. "And, all things considered, he died bravely. I wonder who he was." IX T HE two cargo aircars landed a respectful distance from Trespassers W. The belly pod of one opened and disgorged a fire tractor, which ground purposefully toward the silver egg. The whiteclad man riding atop the tractor stopped his machine two meters from the ship. "It don't look damaged," he called, snapping up his visor. "Where's the fire?" Just then a small vent popped open toward the bottom of the ship, sending up a cloud of acrid smoke. Then it closed. "Go on," the leader of the group transmitted from inside the second aircar. "See if you can find an opening." "Yeah," the man agreed, kicking his machine into gear. Stop where you are Authorized visitors only within five meters of the landing fins. Trespassers will be prosecuted. This ship is authorized to employ self-defense measures under paragraph two hundred nineteen of the Interspace Regulations. As the last tinny notes of the mechanical voice from the ship's speakers died away the white-clad man halted his machine. "Go on," the group leader urged. "Not me. I ain't going closer." The group leader glared at the men around him. They all looked carefully in other directions. With a muttered curse he climbed down out of his perch and strode toward the ship. Haiti No trespassing. This is your second warning. "Is this the PeccaviV ' the leader asked, stopping short some five meters from the nearest fin. Yes. "Let me speak to one of the men inside." That is impossible. "Why?" They are not speaking. The leader considered that for a moment. "Where are they?" One is in the control room. One is in the forward cargo hold. "What are they doing?" They are lying on the deck. Keep back. "We have come to help them. You must let us in." No answer. "Will you open the hatch?" No. The group leader coaxed and wheedled. The moronic robot on the Peccavi answered questions, but no more. "Damn!" the leader yelled, losing his patience. "Open that hatch -- that's an order!" The .computer clucked to itself for a moment, then announced in a loud voice, I will open the hatch. Halfway up the hull a round hole smoothly dilated. With a grunt of satisfaction, the leader started toward the ladder. A small, black object passed overhead with blurring speed and disappeared into the hole, which promptly closed. A spurt of fire appeared at the leader's feet. I have opened the hatch. Keep back. of the walls in the inner hatch and almost bounced down the internal ladderway before grabbing hold of a stanchion and pulling himself to a halt. "That's an impressive way to enter a hatch," Tress commented, dogging the pressure seal. "I misjudged," Metrak said. "Did they see me?" "They did, but only as a black blur. Even now they are asking each other what it was that flew by." "Very good." Metrak trotted down the ladderway, around the dead-black, one-meter sphere that was Tress's inner core, and into the control room. "I have all the data we need, complete with a tape of very incriminating pictures. Where are Mikko and Morgan?" "Not here," Tress said. "They left shortly after you did." "Really?" K Professor Metrak scratched his thick hide. "What for?" "To investigate this." Tress flashed a picture of the building on the far side of the square onto IF the main screen. "It was radiating in the infrared and smoke was coming from the chimney." "And?" Metrak prompted. "And they are not back yet." "Strange," Metrak said. "Perhaps I should search for them. I'll give them a while longer. What's happening outside?" "The men in the aircars have communicated with the spaceport, and a person named Goodbit is coming here. They will do nothing until he arrives." "Oh? Tress, record this for transmitting over the inverse space connection to planet London." Professor Metrak balanced on four legs and scratched his belly thoughtfully. "To: Comex code Lloyds. We have completed our investigation. Subject Quindar Engineering is definitely uninsurable. Their reason for wanting complete secrecy is tied in with their obvious underfinancing. Subject is using local autochthons as slave labor. Mining and smelting copper and other minerals for core-tapper. Phototape follows. Inform local "Recorded." Metrak took the tapeclip out of his camera and slid it into the playback slot. "Send it, please." "On line," Tress stated. "Sent. The third aircar is arriving." Morgan Oxbo paced the length of their cell as though they were a pair of military recruits practicing close-order drill, except for the body-slapping and rubbing of hands that went on as they marched back and forth. They both knew that to lie down would probably mean the end. They might take a long time to die -- but they'd never get up again. "We could chew our way out," Morgan muttered. "Shut up," Mikko said brusquely. "I'm thinking." "About what?" "About death. Shut up." Morgan shut up and frowned -- not in irritation but in concentration, trying to follow Mikko's thoughts. Death? Mikko was not thinking about his own or Morgan's death, that was certain. He might be worrying about how to avoid it but he wouldn't be thinking about the fact itself. Then what death? Obviously that of their late cellmate -- but what about it? If the man had actually died of poison rather than cold... But why would the "hairballs" want to kill him? Or didn't they know their food was poisonous to humans? Suddenly Mikko stopped and slapped his palms to his head with a jar that would have fractured both parietals of any ordinary man's skull. "Of course!" he bellowed ringingly. "This damned cold has numbed my brain! I should have ( Please turn to page #) sary celebration wafted softly from the dark valley below, George Harmon scrambled clumsily over the crest of the ridge and cowered beside a huge boulder, gasping for breath. Scraps of shale bit into his knees and he cursed the darkness he himself had chosen for protection. Both moons lay low on the horizon of the summer sky, the nearer a mere crescent, the farther nearly full but dim in the distance. A perfect night for the test he had planned. Yet even as his eyes plumbed the darkness he sensed the circling shadow overhead. Shrinking against the lichen-crusted rocks, he waited. The shadow came again, blotwhich flickered rampant in their jet background -- a milkwhite blur soared above him in lazy circles. Harmon took his bearings from the boulder and pointed himself down the far side of the ridge toward a cave mouth he had spotted during one of his solitary walks only days before, a sanctuary. If he could reach that cave unseen, his pursuer might -- for one instant -- lose track of him, might become separated, George would finally sever the undefinable bond that united them. He felt little real hope but it was a chance. Seizing a large stone in one hand, he lurched to his feet and crashed through brush that raked his face, tore at his clothes with brittle fingers, scraping and clutching at him. Heavy wings fluttered overhead but the sound only drove him faster. The cave mouth gaped its welcome, a bit of the night sky planted darkling here among the rocks, and Harmon sprawled inside, simultaneously hurling the stone in his hand down the talus slope ahead of him. Bounding racket clattered away through the rocks, a false trail to mislead his pursuer. Then he lay panting and waited. He swallowed nothing as the cotton in his mouth dissolved and his heaving chest slowed. Acrid sweat stung his eyes. All was quiet, except for the muted snatches of song drifting through the still night from the celebration he had left behind. That, too, was part of his plan: caught up in the excitement of the evening, the guardians might not notice his absence. A foolish hope, perhaps, but his onlyone. After a long moment he risked a quick glance outside. His guardian perched some ten yards from him, preening and white, waiting with maddening faithfulness for Harmon to emerge from the cave. Anger swelled in him, drowned at once in the wave of peace that came unbidden to wash over and surround him. He tried to fight the calming aura that bathed his every thought. It was useless. There was no escaping. his feet and in resignation, turned back toward the valley. A draft of cooling night air fanned his neck as the guardian launched itself to swoop low over his bowed head, then wing its way aloft to resume a silent perch on the wind. Harmon cautiously circled the communal party on the way back to his pneumodome. The detour added thirty minutes to his trip home but he had no wish to meet any of the other colonists now, not with his guardian gleaming aberrant white in the night sky above him like a contemning signpost. He knew that none of the others would admit how radically his guardian's appearance had changed -- he could not say whether they showed some mistaken sense of understanding or preferred blindness, but that didn't matter. He knew his guardian -- at least by sight. It had changed. IF Once the guardian plummeted low across his path to snatch up an adder that had lain in deadly ambush. Harmon pointedly ignored the service. He was long past the point of caring, certainly of thanking a creature whose every attention he detested. His wife sat before their pneumodome, waiting. "George? Where were you? Your clothes! What happened?" He stalked in past her. He knew, without bothering to glance behind him, that the guardian glided gently down to settle on the dome spire and wait with loving concern. During his first few months here he had several times tried to sneak away early in the pre-dawn darkness but the guardian was always alert and waiting. There was no escape. "George? I asked if you're all right." Marian followed him inside. "I thought you might be sick when you left the party early." He ignored her and devoted himself to the ritual of checking the compressor that kept their home erect. It was only through minor, habitual tasks like these that he was able to ignore her irritating solicitude. "Well? Are you?" "Who's ever sick here?" he demanded. "And if you give me any of that 'praise guardians' I swear I'll walk out again." He flopped angrily into one of the two clumsy wooden chairs which, with a small table and inflated mattress, comprised the furniture in their temporary quarters. The steady thrum of the compressor drowned out the night noises outside and soothed him in spite of himself. "You should have stayed. After the dancing we voted to rename the colony. Eden. Isn't that beautiful? John Martin thought of it." "Eden," George snorted. "I could have guessed. Leave it to our good Captain Martin to come up with that kind of maudlin mindlessness." Marian merely smiled and reached back to stroke the feathered head of her guardian, perched black and docile on the back of her chair. "Pretty bird," she murmured. "Poor George isn't himself tonight." "Damn it! Don't excuse me to one of them. And haven't I told you to leave that thing outside?" "Sorry, dear." She nodded and her guardian fluttered softly through the susurring air current at the door and out into the night. "But he's so small. He's not really in the way." "That's just like you, throwing its size up to me. You wander around with a crow following you while I'm stuck with that reeking albino vulture out there. But I suppose you didn't notice the color it's turning." "It's really prettier than the others, don't you think?" "But why do  get it?" "Guardians assign themselves," Marian recited. The phrase carried the connotation of a catechism. George grunted his irritation and turned away to ignore what he could not refute. That fact that no one chose his guardian but was instead chosen had long since become apparent. Perhaps that was what irritated him most, his inability to change what everyone else in the colony had accepted as some sort of foreordained natural fact -- mere hours after their ship had landed each colonist had found himself the object of special attention lavished on him by a guardian, not chosen but acquired. O NE year ago to the day. One year ago they had thundered to a turf-searing landing in the broad valley stretching away to the south from the huge clearing that now contained the pneumodome village and the rich tilled fields which fed the colony. Advance scouting reports had promised them a potential paradise. Rotating on an axis parallel to that of its sun, their new world underwent only mild seasonal changes here in the temperate belt. Except for a twenty-eight-hour day and a fourhundred-day year, the colonists' new home seemed an improved replica of the overpopulated, underfed, war-ridden Earth they had all so eagerly left behind. How far behind, none of them could say. The psychologists all thought it best if they cut the cord completely and started fresh here. Some day their developing technology would let them reestablish contact with other men, wherever their kin would be by then. For now, for the colonists, Eden was meant to be all there was. The trip outbound from Earth had passed between sleeping and waking -- long years in suspended animation. During that time the starvation and skirmishing warfare on Earth had increased unknown to the colonists, who awoke only when the ship's preset equipment sensed "destination." They awoke to new hope, to the sight of a green luxuriant world waiting to welcome them. Even George Harmon had felt, for a brief moment, not his usual cynicism but a twinge of pleasure. It soon passed. Captain Martin took command and restored Harmon's sense of irritation with his place in the new scheme. "Families to my left, single men over here," Martin ordered. "I want sentries posted till we can inflate the first dormitory and establish security. Then we'll worry about making contact with those birds we've been hearing about." A snicker rippled through the nervous crowd. Of the facts known to the colonists about their new home, one stood out as the most unlikely: in spite of the planet's hospitable environment, no comIF plex organism had developed sufficiently to dominate the animal life present. Only a single species of birds which traveled in large flocks showed any tendency toward social organization -- but not real intelligence -- a sort of silent, empathetic bond. Scouting reports described the birds as small, apparently harmless; the roboprobe scoutships had brought back to Earth hours of film, carefully recorded data -- everything, in fact, except the intangibles which only a human survey crew might have noticed. But human crews were unthinkable aboard scoutships, given the duration of the journey each covered and the massive G-loads which would reduce a frail organism to jelly but troubled the automated equipment not at all. No, the probes had brought back enough data, even about the birds. And so, during their indoctrination at Colony Central in Utahstate, the potential colonists had of course joked with one another about the hosts who awaited them in their new home. For the entire two months of their training, they had treated one another to puns about "birds of a feather," about their being the "early birds" bound to get the worm, and whatever other strained cleverness occurred to people bone-tired from days of endless psychological screening, adaptability tests and lectures on the problems of founding an agrarian society. Harmon had avoided the horseplay -- birdplay, Marian said once, only to cringe under the withering look her husband had thrown her. He had concentrated instead on satisfying the examiners, all of whom had seemed determined to dissuade him from emigrating, even though his number had come up in the monthly New Life Lottery. Besides the pap they kept muttering about his potential instability, there was the question of his occupation. In theory a legislator like Harmon, a man accustomed to guiding an organized society, should be valuable in any new colony; in practice farmers and laborers somehow proved more effective and reliable. But George had managed to pass all their tests, more often than not masking his true feelings to answer heir childishly transparent questions as he knew they expected of a "good risk." That much he could do -- anything to escape the terrors of a poisoned atmosphere, of insecticide-laden milk and seawater, of the burgeoning sterility that threatened all who remained on the dying Earth. So he and Marian had joined the other lucky ones, the groups of three hundred people who fled Earth each month to sink a new foothold for man in some distant corner of the expanding universe. ers while John Martin, elected captain before their liftoff from Earth, apportioned land and set them to work in teams to cannibalize the ship itself for its usable equipment. With the others in the sweating crowd they cheered when the first pneumodome sagged and blossomed erect. And with the others they tensed at the sight of hundreds of birds boiling over the horizon to approach and circle the band of wary colonists. But at first nothing happened. The birds merely circled, until the colonists separated, each couple or work team to go its own way. Then a strange symbiosis developed between them and the birds -- "guardians" they were soon called. Each colonist found himself possessing, or being possessed by, one of the delicate, aromatic gray doves. Not that any formal bond was ever made. Nor was communication between them possible. But a relationship developed nevertheless. A single bird followed each man and each woman night and day, always in sight. A sentry walking the perimeter of the camp first described the relationship. "I was taking a shortcut through the brush over there and accidentally kicked a hornet's nest. Anyway, they looked like N what I'd call hornets. They came buzzing out fit to eat me alive. This bird I'd been seeing behind me all along comes swooping down and gobbles them up so fast I almost couldn't see him work. Not one of them got close enough to sting me. First thing you know, the bird's back, flying in circles over my head. There he is. There." His report drew echoes from the others in the communal assembly, tales of unexpected aid. The birds, some said, had saved them from snakes writhing through the underbrush. Or the birds had chattered warnings to those few who had thought to eat what appeared to be an apple, a fruit later proven to be deadly poison. Though no one understood how it worked, everyone was certain it did -- the birds knew what threatened man and they protected him. "Asking nothing in return," Martin had told them. "As far as we know, theirs is honest altruism. You've noticed that it's always the same bird trailing you, right?" The crowd nodded assent. "All I can say is, they're some kind of guardians." "Nonsense!" Harmon shouted. "They must get something out of it. It's not right otherwise. In a symbiosis both partners benefit." "Then call it parasitism, if you want, with us the parasites," Martin said. "I still say it's suspicious." But the others had booed George down. Within a week the relationship had become an accepted part of their new life. No one would suffer the least slight uttered about the guardians. One young boy found IF himself censured for resurrecting a meaningless but apparently clever greeting he had once heard back on Earth: "How's your bird?" His father slapped him -- or began to. But he hesitated and the blow didn't land. Nevertheless, the boy felt reprimanded. And John Martin's designation stuck. "Guardians" the birds became. #eorge?" Marian nudged him VJ gently. "What's wrong?" He rolled to face her. "You talk with the others more than I do. Did anyone ever escape his guardian? Or see one die? And the dogs -- they whine any time a guardian gets near. Or they used to." "Why? They're all -- " "Skip it. Let it go. I should have known better than to ask you. Of course you're content. And the others, not a brain in their heads. Your friend Martin's as stupid as those sheep he coddles all day. But someone must recognize how we depend on them. It's not right. It's -- it's inhuman." "We've been all through this, George, a hundred times. I thought John Martin had settled it. The crops prosper, our flocks increase, there hasn't been a quarrel -- much less a fight -- in the whole year we've been here. If the guardians do any more than we see, it's only to help. I admit I won't go as far as the people who almost worship them, but I can't see anything wrong." "I'll tell you what's wrong. They're getting something from us. They must be. Did you ever know anyone to do all the things they do and not expect to get paid? On Earth we -- " Marian smiled. "We're not on earth, dear," "So? At least there a man's worth was recognized. Here we're all dirt-grubbing farmers, all except the high muckey-muck Martin. Our leader. He even stinks like his sheep." "Please. Try to sleep. I'm sure you're worried about nothing." She kissed his cheek and turned away. Patronizing -- just like Martin . Neither of them sense enough to see the obvious... But he had seen. The feathered parasite that followed his every step had changed radically. In the beginning they were all the same -- mourning doves, he might have called them on Earth, gray and delicate, small-boned, graceful, a delight to watch circling in the sunlight as the men worked the fields or urged their flocks upslope to the high pasture lands. They seemed to exude an undefinable aroma -- vaguely pleasant, like freshly laundered linen. But then changes began to appear in the birds. Marian's guardian, for instance, was smaller now. Harmon was sure of it. Smaller and darker, nearly black, as if some evil had worked its transformation on the bird. Harmon's own had grown gigantic, almost as large as an eagle and was turning whiter by the day. He swore he had seen it pass through shades of lighter and lighter gray: leaden, ashen, pearl. Only a few days earlier he had glanced up to see it haunting him as he walked home from the fields. On impulse he had hurled his hoe at the creature, and a single occurrence, the sight might have been blamed on some trick of the fading sunlight, but Harmon refused to accept that notion. He had seen the same phenomenon too often. The creature was whiter: now cream; then milk. He knew; everyone must have seen it. He had even swallowed his dislike for Martin long enough to ask whether anyone had made contact with the guardians, had discovered some way of communicating with them. So many questions unanswered. Why did they follow the colonists? and why particular ones? Could a man trade guardians with someone else? But Martin -- busy in preparation for the anniversary celebration -- had ignored him. And the others, including those few who seemed to fear the guardians, however slightly, refused to understand his questions; they even denied the calming scent that seemed to follow the guardians everywhere. It was then that Harmon had decided that he would escape his guardian, kill it if necessary. Settle things once and for all, find out what all this meant. Tonight, with the community gathered to celebrate a year of peace and plenty, he had gone off alone to make his final test. When that proved fruitless -- he sucked a scrape on his forearm and savored the memory of the pain he had felt hurtling through the brush in his futile attempt to escape -- when that proved fruitless, he had known what he must do. He smiled his hatred toward the dark dome overhead and toward the bird he knew sat waiting. He would kill his guardian but in such a way that no one else would understand his intention -- make the act appear spontaneous, perhaps accidental. Harmon fell asleep smiling. F OR the next few days he only watched. The crops had been harvested, a second planting was already underway. While the work teams sweated and labored at their appointed tasks, Harmon questioned those around him. He soon discovered a pattern: the guardians maintained their distance, usually separated a full twenty to thirty yards from the host to which each had attached itself, unless motioned nearer by the man himself. But in moments of stress, when IF tempers flared or danger threatened, they dove nearer. And they brought with them peace -- an intangible aura of well-being -- almost as though each guardian somehow broadcast placidity and emotional calm. The sentimentalists among Harmon's coworkers called it love, to his disgust. To test his newly formed theory, George tried provoking arguments. He jostled men working their way down the bean rows; he tripped a boy intentionally. Tempers flared, but nothing more ever came of it. In every case even a hint of anger or distrust drew the guardians nearer rnd the mood passed. Simultaneously the guardians paled, became for a brief moment lighter in color than they had been. It was clear. The birds flourished on tension, on hate and fear and anger, on the swelling emotions alien to this world and unknown before man's arrival. Perhaps, Harmon theorized, a man's very body chemistry, imbalanced however slightly in moments of stress, attracted the hypersensitive guardians. As an addict might pay for narcotics, the birds returned a sense of peace and well-being for the emotions they absorbed. That possibility even accounted for the lack of illness among the colonists, he decided. Injuries were of course rare, with guardians always present to warn of impending danger. But illness was equally rare. In some unexplained way the guardians ministered to their hosts, absorbing or drawing off flashes of anger or unpleasant physical sensations. Though many colonists feared their guardians, everyone seemed content, at peace with himself and his neighbors. Everyone but George Harmon, whose fear of the birds had become loathing. He hated his guardian more by the moment. It grew and paled noticeably, bathing George in the fragrant warmth of affection that only increased his hatred. "Why can't you accept things?" Marian pleaded. "Sometimes I think you're sorry we came to Eden. We're all so happy. John says that if -- " "Martin again!" George slammed his wooden cup against the wall and stared in frustration as it bounced to the floor undamaged. He felt the veins throbbing in his forehead and reached for something to break or tear, but there was nothing. "If you mention him to me once -- " He stopped at the sound of heavy Wings at the curtain of his dome. And then he knew. He smirked. The strongest surge of emotion he had felt in weeks had drawn the creature toward him, like a victim to a baited trap. Martin was that bait. He fought the pacific calm that filled the pneumodome, and plotted his next move. It would all be so simple. procession moving toward the beanfield they were planting. He followed the planting team down the rows, covering each newly seeded hill with moist soil with his hoe blade. While he worked, he waited. Shadows drifted along the tilled rows. The guardians circling overhead. Banter passed among the men, gossip about a new baby born the day before and already under the protection of a guardian. And then Harmon's moment arrived. John Martin strode toward the workers. "Martin! I want to see you!" A few of the others looked curious at his tone but returned to their labors. Only the guardians overhead showed agitation. "What is it, George?" Harmon savored the aroma Martin carried, the ripe scent of his flocks. He let a thought blossom full and rich in his mind: Kill him! Kill him! The hate swelled and burned with a fiery delight. He watched Martin's gray guardian swoop low in chittering protest and dash itself against Martin's chest; but Martin only paused in bewilderment. Harmon raised his hoe and lunged at Martin. Fluttering wings grazed his head as his own screeching guardian circled lower. The trap sprung, George whirled. His hoe flashed through the sunlight to chop at the mass of snowy feathers. The hoe swung and struck in frantic, staggered rhythm. A mist of gas and splattering gray droplets spewed from the bird's ruptured breast to shower over Harmon. He sagged suddenly in rapture and reached up outstretched arms to the white feathers drifting gently down through the cloud that permeated his swelling flesh. Then he knew , became one with, the guardian's fetid intensity -- his lungs strained to bursting as he sucked in understanding from the sunlit, rainbowstreaked air. Plaintive gull cries filled the air. The guardians dove to surround the men who stood rooted in fear at the sight of Harmon writhing on the ground in an agony of joy, bloating and swelling like a maddened cancer. A musky glow of peace and contentment laved over eyes to blind them. When they saw once more, they stared bewildered at the shattered guardian, the burden of hate now lifted from its slender frame and returned to its source -- that source a mass of corruption melting to fuse with the earth. Sadly they covered the foulness at their feet and returned to work. Soon no one in Eden remembered George Harmon, though on still summer evenings the guardians often swoop low over a single spot of sterility lying barren in that fertile soil.  IF that it is essentially a literature of ideas. With only a few exceptions the general stream of fiction has been forced to depend on the emotional involvement of essentially familiar people and their interactions in basically familiar situations. That makes the use of any really different new idea so hard to weave in convincingly that few writers can succeed. On the other hand, science fiction offers a universe-wide range of possibilities. We can tell the story of a woman who marries a complete alien or a man who sees the end of the universe. One of the results of this difference is that in science fiction the shorter length is often better than the full novel. In general fiction, length is needed to develop the complexity of interactions which must substitute for freshness of concept. In our field, simplicity can be a virtue, letting the basic idea stand forth clear and uncluttered. Nowadays, due partly to the market, some of these get padded out into spurious novels, of course; but over the decades some of the most memorable examples of science fiction have been found in stories of less than fifteen thousand words. Maybe this is why the anthology has been so important a form of book in this field, unlike in most others. In general fiction a man who has written a whole body of excellent short work can hope to see his efforts kept in print through collections. But the writer who depends on a few great stories -- even classics of their kind -- is too often doomed to oblivion, except in science fiction. In a sense, the story of the acceptance of science fiction as a publishable form began with the anthology. Back in #, when only a few fan publishers were trying to bring out science fiction, Random House issued Adventures in Time and Space , edited by Raymond J. Healy and J. Francis McComas. It was a huge book, containing # pages of fiction, totalThere were # stories, culled from the virgin territory of all the science-fiction magazine work published to that date. And it sold, as I remember, for #! Whenever librarians ask me to submit a list of science-fiction books they should stock, this ancient anthology heads the list. Until very recently, at least, it was still available in the Modern Library edition (under a different title -- Famous Science Fiction , I believe -- and less a couple of stories that don't matter that much). It's a book that should still be on the shelves of every genuine fan of the field; if you don't have it, get it -- new or secondhand, it's still a great bargain. During the same year another anthology appeared -- this edited by Groff Conklin and put out by Crown Publishers: The Best of Science Fiction. It wasn't quite the huge bargain the first was and Groff had sometimes been unable to get the stories he wanted because they were already purchased for the earlier book. But its success in the market and in sales to libraries also helped to convince publishers that there was money to be made in this crazy field. Since then there have been hordes of anthologies. Some, like Groff Conklin's excellent later ones, were gathered with love and by means of diligent reading of the magazines. Some were put together shoddily by mining earlier anthologies. A few have been simply excuses to get stories by a clique into print. And there have been numerous anthologies of original stories, written especially for the anthologist. In the case of the Star series by Frederik Pohl, this worked out rather well. But in general, it seems to be a poor practice; writers can't turn out superb stories on order and deadlines force an editor to fill a volume with fiction no better -- and sometimes worse -- than can be found in any issue of a magazine, despite the name writers and a much higher price. About the time the anthology market seemed to be exhausted for anything but annual "Bests," the collecting of stories around a theme became the chief sales gimmick. Now the trick was not so much to get the best stories but to find the ones that could be related to some single subject that would afford a catchy or controversial title for the book. Some of these were fairly good but most either IF reshuffled old familiars or abandoned taste to fill the book. Other anthologists added all kinds of extraneous matter to pad out the volumes. Serious -- and rather dull -- articles were stuck in between stories to show how wise or clever they were in sticking to science, or some such, rather than letting the stories stand on their own merits. In a few cases, there has been so much editorial material in explanations and blurbs and "selling" that it's hard to evaluate the fiction, because the editor's evaluation is shoved down our throats at every break. It is as if a magazine had a page of filler or editorial "Hoo-boy Wow Gosh" for every page of fiction! There have been some excellent volumes I'm happy to have in my collection, but it has been a long time since the field has seen an anthology capable of standing tall in the shadow of the classic Adventures . For nearly a quarter of a century, that book has been my unfailing choice whenever I wanted to convert some friend to science fiction. N OW, at last, it has a worthy successor. Science Fiction Hall of Fame , edited by Robert Silverberg (Doubleday, #), is a definitive anthology of the shorter works of science fiction since the magazines began. It even lives up to its subtitle: The Greatest Science Fiction Stories of All Times! And without any real reservations, I'm forced to give it a rave review on its merits. Of course, times have changed and no such bargain as the earlier volume is possible today. Now it costs # to get a quarter million words -- half of what # would buy in #! But it's still a great bargain in the current market when a novel of # words usually sells for # and up. When you consider the quality of the words there's no comparison in value. In a brief foreword, Silverberg gives the background and intent. (Mercifully, there's no other editorial intrusion. For your money, you get solid worth in stories, packed tight in all the numbered pages.) All the professional writers who belonged to the Science Fiction Writers of America were asked to nominate and then vote on their favorite stories before #. Silverberg did the work of collating their responses and the present book represents his efforts at putting together the results of the summed judgment of the professionals in the field. He did his agree with the few cases where he admitted to the need of some personal weighing of the results. Anyhow, it's all explained in the foreword, with the exact listing of the top fifteen of the twenty-six stories in order of votes. These are supposedly the stories that would have won the Nebula shorter fiction, had the Nebulas existed when they appeared. Actually they're a lot better in my opinion than some of the stories that have won -- and represent a far more balanced judgment. Apparently time and distance have removed the personal angles that must so often motivate the voting for current awards, and the result is a list of some genuine classics. Also, twenty-five years have passed since Healy and McComas made their personal selections, and we've had time to weed and compare, as well as many more stories from which to select. Loyal as I am to the old book, I have to admit that some of the work there might better be omitted for other material today. Even the arrangement of stories in the Silverberg anthology is a happy one. The order is strictly by date, with the first appearing in # and the last in #. This helps to put each story in perspective as it is read and it also makes the book a very convenient source of the history of our development. The oldest story is Stanley Weinbaum's Martian Odyssey -- perhaps the most revolutionary story ever written. There are quaint touches which the early date helps to explain; some of it wouldn't be written that way today. But how the story stands up in its totality! The next story is John Campbell's Twilight , which was good enough on first reading to inspire my first fan letter to a magazine -- and still good enough to make me wish more writers who try setting mood had the skill Campbell showed back in #. And because of the date (#), I manage to stagger in third with Helen O'Loy. Curious, by happenstance I was third on the contents page in the old anthology, I see. Ah well, Silverberg couldn't be wholly original! That would violate tradition, obviously. It's hard to pick the best Heinlein Future History novelette, but The Roads Must Roll still rolls. Then we have two stories which the authors have come to hate because readers keep coming up to them and demanding more like them. I have to agree with the majority about Theodore Sturgeon's Microcosmic God -- it's my favorite from all his science fiction. On the other hand, I agree with Isaac Asimov that he has written better stories than Nightfall -- but not much better and none so universally remembered. A.E. van Vogt is represented by The Weapon Shop , to my surprise; I'd have guessed his very first story was more popular. Yet I agree with the majority here; it's a story so good that he didn't have to be confusing in it. It has some of his best writing and, in my opinion, all of his best characterization. The first ten years is completed IF with Mimsy Were the Borogoves , by Lewis Padgett (Kuttner andor Moore). This was something of a key story also, since there were a number of imitations in handling and intent to follow that. It was a great decade and the stories assembled here to record it are stories every real reader of science fiction has to know. It was a decade that began with the slow realization that aliens were essentially human -- and ended with the knowledge that humans are essentially alien. The next decade from # to # seems to be more a period of consolidation, beginning with Clifford Simak's Huddling Place and ending with Surface Tension by Names of God by Arthur Clarke. In between came the one great innovation of the decade, I suspect -- Cordwainer Smith's Scanners Live in Vain , which was a legend within a year because of its publication in a less-known magazine and the amazing reputation it achieved in spite of that fact. There are still plenty of writers consciously or otherwise imitating that story. I T IS in this section that I find my own total agreement with the selection beginning to disappear. There are no stories here I can say flatly do not belong, with one possible exception; and that one is doubtful only because thalidomide came along many years later to take some of the kick out of the situation. Still, I suppose the effect remains on those who read it when it was a new and outstanding idea. Two other stories here strike me as below the quality I associate with classics -- one because I seem to be prejudiced against the writer's work generally, perhaps; and the other because I never felt his best work was done in this field. But since my convictions here aren't all that strong. I'll leave it as a pleasant guessing game as to those I mean. Fill in with your own prejudices, if you like. I suspect that during the ten years of this middle period writers were improving their techniques but still sticking to the tried-andtrue for ideas. If so, it would account for the somewhat lower standard of impact here, since the ideas generally would have a lower luster than some earlier ones, even though the early handling lacked some of the later polish. People tend to remember ideas more than style or treatment, praise be! The last decade, ending in #, is significantly different in attitude. There is no longer the assurance of greatness that once existed in our dreams of the future. (Even Twilight showed that assurance; true, the end was possibly failure, of years... !) Jerome Bixby's It's a Good Life is negatively implied in its title, and Tom Godwin's Cold Equations is a story of harsh inevitability, as logical and as bitterly unsentimental as its title indicates. And we wind up the book with the bitter-sweet of Roger Zelazny's A Rose for Ecclesiastes , which proved that new talent could be great talent. I've obviously skipped some stories and many of those were ones that unquestionably had to be included and which I consider to be truly classics. I'm not trying to give the table of contents, but rather to get some meaning out of the book. And I hope others will draw their own conclusions, since the logical arrangement here begs for analysis on the part of the reader. In sum, if I were asked for one science-fiction book to go into a time-capsule today, or for one book to represent us on the general shelves of our libraries, this is the book I would have to pick. Anyone who can put this book down with less than great satisfaction obviously has no taste at all for science fiction. This is not a perfect book, however. Doubleday has managed as usual to come up with a dust wrapper that makes the title hard to read without study and reminds me of a rather bad circus poster with the colors faded enough to show that the circus has already left town. Then they stick their list of authors under a caption that says: Chosen by the Members of the Science Fiction Writers of America. This makes it seem that -- as could hardly be true of Weinbaum, for instance -- and as if the bers. Ah well. Maybe somebody at Doubleday is spending more time making book than making books. Fortunately, this is the only major gripe I have and I've already macerated the horror of that dust jacket and flushed it down the drain. This is listed as "Volume One," incidentally. (I think that is also a horrible thing to put on a dustjacket, since some may decide to wait for the others or decide not to buy something incomplete. Don't you like to sell books, Doubleday?) Thereby hangs a plan. The expectation is that similar volumes representing the longer stories -- more than # words but less than novel-length -- and finally the novels will be issued, using the same method of selecting. I'm going to look forward to the book of novelettes, since several of the stories I consider greatest were left out of this volume because of length. And I'm going to worry a good bit about that volume of novels. With no more than five novels to fill such a book, it's going to be close to impossible to choose a representative collection of the greatest. When the whole project is comIF pleted, however, the value of the three volumes may be far greater than could be found in any single book. Then we'll have a true library in three books -- and there will therefore be no excuse for even the smallest public library not carrying enough science fiction to offer a fine example to readers. Buy two copies -- one for lending out for the next quarter of a century!  troit, Michigan. Advance membership #, # at the door. For information: Detroit Triple Fan Fair, # Anne Street, Allen Park, Michigan #.  Claremont College, California. Guestof-Honor: C.S. Kilby. For information: Glen Goodknight, # Woodward Avenue, Maywood, California #.  Robert Treat Hotel, Newark, New Jersey. Guest-of-Honor: Hans Stefan Santesoon. October # devoted to speeches and panel discussions. There will be an Anniversary Banquet on October #, commemorating the First World Science Fiction Convention in New York City in #. Banquet tickets, #. Deadline for banquet reservations, September #. For information: Brian Burley # North Maine, Hackettstown, New Jersey #.  the Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal speaker: Larry Niven. For information: Kathy Surgenor, # N. Fairhill Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #. I emerged from his hotel into a bunting-draped street crowded with locals: bustling, furry folk with upraised, bushy tails, like oversized chipmunks, ranging in height from a foot to a yard. A party of placard-carrying marchers, emerging from a side street, jostled their way through the press, briskly ripping down political posters attached to shop walls and replacing them with posters of their own. Their move was immediately countered by a group of leaflet distributors who set about applying mustaches, beards and crossed eyes to the new placards. The passersby joined in cheerfully, some blacking out teeth and adding warts to the tips of button noses, others grabbing the brushes from the defacers and applying them to their former owners' faces. Fists flew; the clamor rose. Retief felt a tug at his knee; a small Oberonian dressed in blue breeches and a spotted white apron looked up at him from wide, worried eyes. "Prithee, fair sir," the small creature piped in a shrill voice, "come quick, ere all is lost!" "What's the matter?" Retief inquired, noting the flour smudge on the Oberonian's cheek and the dab of pink icing on the tip of his nose. "Are the cookies burning?" "E'en worse than that, milord -- 'tis the Tsuggs! The great brutes would dismantle the shop entire! But follow and observe!" The Oberonian whirled and darted away. Retief followed along the steeply sloping cobbled alley between close-pressing houses, his head level with the second-story balconies. Through open windows he caught glimpses of doll's-houselike interiors, complete with toy tables and chairs and postage-stamp-sized TV screens. The bright-eyed inhabitants clustered at their railings, twittering like sparrows as he passed. He picked his way with care among the pedestrians crowding the way: twelve-inch Ploots and eighteen-inch Grimbles in purple and red leathers, two-foot Choobs in fringed caps and aprons, lordly three-foot-six-inch Blufs, elegant in ruffles and curled pink wigs. Ahead, he heard shrill cries, a tinkle of breaking glass, a dull thump. Rounding a sharp turn, he came on the scene of action. Before a shop with a sign bearing a crude painting of a salami, a crowd had gathered, ringing in a group of half a dozen giant Oberonians of a type new to Retief: swaggering dandies in soiled silks, with cruelly cropped tails, scimitars slung at their waists -- if creatures of the approximate shape of ten-pins can be said to have waists. One of the party held the bridles of their mounts -- scaled, spike-maned brutes resembling gaily painted rhinoceroses, but for their prominent canines, and long, muscular legs. Two more were busy with crowbars, levering at the lintel over the shop doorway. Another pair were briskly attacking the adjacent wall with sledge-hammers. The sixth, distinguished by a scarlet sash with a pistol thrust through it, stood with folded arms, smiling a sharp-toothed smile at the indignant mob. " 'Tis the pastry and ale shop of Binkster Druzz, my grand uncle twice removed!" RetieFs diminutive guide shrilled. "A little lighthearted destruction in the course of making one's political views clear is all very well -- but these IF pirates would reduce us to penury! Gramercy, milord, canst not impede the brutes?" He swarmed ahead, clearing a path through the onlookers. The red-sashed one, noticing Retiefs approach unfolded his arms, letting one hand linger near the butt of the pistol -- a Groaci copy of a two-hundred-year-old Concordiat sliver-gun,  Retief noted. "Close enough, off-worlder," the Tsugg said in a somewhat squeaky baritone. "What would ye here? Ye'r hutch lieth in the next street yonder." bear-like Oberonian, who loomed over the crowd, his eyes almost on a level with RetieFs own, his bulk far greater. "I want to buy a jelly doughnut," the Terran said. "Your lads seem to be blocking the doorway." "Aroint thee, Terry; seek refreshment elsewhere. Being somewhat fatigued with campaigning, I plan to honor this low dive with my custom; my bullies must needs enlarge the door to comport with my noble dimensions." "That won't be convenient," Retief said smoothly. "When I want a jelly doughnut I want it now." He took a step toward the door; the pistol jumped at him. The other Tsuggs were gathering around, hefting crowbars. "Ah-ah," Retief cautioned, raising a finger -- and at the same moment swung his foot in a short arc that ended just under the gun-handler's knee-joint. The victim emitted a sharp yap and leaned forward far enough for his jaw to intersect the course of Retiefs left fist. Retief palmed the gun deftly as the Tsugg staggered into the arms of his companions. "Aroint thee, lads," the giant muttered reproachfully to his supporters, shaking his head dazedly. "We've been boon drinking chums these six Lesser Moons and this is the first time ye've give me any of the food stuff..." "Spread out, lads," one of the Tsuggs ordered his companions. "We'll pound this knave into a thin paste." "Better relax, gentlemen," Retief suggested. "This gun is messy at short range." "An' I mistake me not," one of the crowbar wielders said, eyeing Retief sourly, "ye'r one of the outworld bureaucrats, here to connive in the allocation of loot, now the Sticky-fingers have gone." "Ambassador Clawhammer prefers to refer to his role as refereeing the elections, nothing more," Retief corrected. "Aye," the Tsugg nodded, "that's what I said. So how is it ye're interfering with the free democratic process by coshing Dir Blash in the midst of exercising his voice in local affairs?" "We bureaucrats are a mild lot," Retief clarified, "unless someone gets between us and our jelly doughnuts." Red-sash was weaving on his feet, shaking his head. " 'Tis a scurvy trick," he said blurrily, "sneaking a concealed anvil into a friendly little six-to-one crowbar affray." "Let's go," one of the others said, "ere he produces a howitzer from his sleeve." The banditi mounted their wild-eyed steeds amid much snorting and tossing of fanged heads. "But we'll not forget ye're visage, off-worlder," another promised. "I wot well we'll meet again -- and next time we'll be none so lenient." A hubbub of pleased chatter broke out among the lesser Oberonians as the party passed from sight. "Milord has saved Great-uncle Binkster's fried fat this day," the small being who had enlisted RetieFs aid cried. The Terran leaned over, hands on knees, which put his face on a level only a foot or two above that of the little fellow. "Haven't I seen you before?" he asked. "Certes, milord -- until an hour since, I eked out a few coppers as third assistant pastry cook in the inn yonder, assigned to the cupcake division, decorative icing branch." He sighed. "My specialty was rosebuds -- but no need to burden your grace with my plaint." "You lost your job?" "Aye, that did I -- but forsooth, 'tis but a trifling circumstance, in light of what I o'erheard ere the hostler bade me hie me from the premises forthwith!" "Let's see, your name is -- " "Prinkle, milord. Ipstitch Prinkle IX, at your service." The Twilpritt turned as a slightly plumper, grayer version of himself bustled up, bobbing his head and twitching his ears in a manner expressive of effusive gratitude. "And this, Milord, is Uncle Binkster, in the flesh." "Your servant, sir," Uncle Binkster squeaked, mopping at his face with a large striped handkerchief. "Wouldst honor me by accepting a cooling draft of pringlizard milk and a lardy-tart?" "In sooth, Uncle, he needs something stronger than whey," Prinkle objected. "And in sooth, The Plump Sausage offers fine ale -- if your Grace can manage the approaches," he added, comparing Retief s six foot three with the doorway. "I'll turn sideways," Retief reassured the Oberonian. He ducked through, was led across the crowded room by a bustling eighteen-inch tapman to a corner table, where he was able to squeeze himself onto a narrow bench against the wall. "What'll it be, gents?" the landlord inquired. "Under the circumstances, I'll stick to small beer," Retief said. IF "Ale for me," Uncle Binkster said. " 'Tis vice, perhaps, to tipple ere lunchtime, but with Tsuggs roaming the Quarter and battering down walls, one'd best tipple while opportunity presents itself." "A sound principle," Retief agreed. "Who are these Tsuggs, Uncle Binkster?" A-'from the high crags for easy pickings," the elderly baker replied with a sigh. "After you Terrans sent the Groaci packing, we thought all our troubles were over. Alas, I fear me 'tis not the case. As soon as the ruffians got the word the Five Eyes were pulling out, they came swarming down out of the hills like zing-bugs after a jamwagon -- 'tis plain they mean to elect their ruffianly chief, Hoobrik the Uncouth. Bands of them roam the city, and the countryside as well, terrorizing the voters -- " He broke off as the landlord placed a foaming three-inch tankard before Retief. "Away with that thimble, Squirmkin!" he exclaimed. "Our guest requires a heartier bumper than that!" " 'Tis an Emperor-sized mug," the landlord said, "but I allow his dimensions dwarf it. Mayhap I can knock the top out of a hogshead..." He hurried away. "Pray don't mistake me, milord," Uncle Binkster resumed. "Like any patriot, I rejoiced to see the Sticky-finger go, leaving the conduct of Oberonian affairs to Oberonians. But who'd have guessed we normal-sized chaps would at once be subjected to depradations by our own oversized kith and kin exceeding anything the invaders ever practiced!" "A student of history might have predicted it," Retief pointed out. "But I agree: being pushed around by local hoodlums is even less satisfying than being exploited from afar." "Indeed so," Prinkle agreed. "In the case of foreigners one can always gain a certain relief by hurling descriptive epithets, mocking their outlandish ways and blaming everything on their inherent moral leprosy -- an awkward technique to use on one's relatives." The landlord returned, beaming, with a quart-sized wooden container topped by a respectable head. Retief raised it in salute and drank deep. "And if what my nephew o'erheard be any indication," Uncle Binkster went on, wiping foam from his whiskers, "the worst is yet to come. Hast related all to our benefactor, lad?" "Not yet, Uncle." Prinkle turned to Retief. "I was sweeping room, my mind on other matters, when I heard the word 'Tsugg' bandied among the company still sitting at table. I cocked an auricle, thinking to hear the scoundrels roundly denounced, only to catch the intelligence that their chief that brawling bravo Hoobrik, representing himself to be spokesman and natural leader of all Oberon, withal, hath demanded audience of His Impressiveness, Ambassador Clawhammer! 'Twas but natural that I undertook to disabuse their Lordships of this impertinent notion, accidentally overturning a pot of chocolate in process thereof -- " "Alas, my nephew is at times too enthusiastic in his espousal of his views," Uncle Binkster put in. "Though 'tis beyond dispute, in this instance he was sorely tried." "In sooth, so was his honor, Mr. Magnan, when the cocoa landed in his lap," Prinkle admitted. "Happily, 'twas somewhat cooled by long standing." "A grotesque prospect," Uncle Binkster ruminated. "Those scapegrace villains, lording it over us honest folk! Perish the thought, Sir Retief! I trow I'd sooner have the Five-eyes back!" "At least they maintained a degree of control over the ne'r-dowells," Prinkle said, "restricting them to their hills and caves." "As will we, lad, once the election is consummated," Uncle Binkster reminded the youth. "Naturally, we Twilpritt stand ready to assume the burden of policing the rabble, as is only right and natural, as soon as our slate is elected, by reason of our supervisor virtues -- " "Hark not to the old dodderer's maunderings, Giant," a tiny voice peeped from the next table. A miniature Oberonian, no more than nine inches tall, raised his oneounce glass in salute. "We Chimberts, being nature's noblemen, are of course divinely appointed to a position of primacy among these lumbering brutes, saving your presence, milord -- " "Dost hear a dust-cricket chirping in the woodwork?" a mediumsized Oberonian with black circles resembling spectacles around his eyes inquired loudly from three tables away. " 'Twere plain e'en to an outworlder that we Choobs are the rightful inheritors of the mantle of superiority. Once in office we'll put an end to such public rantings." "You in office?" Prinkle yelped. "O'er my corpse, varlet!" He leaped up, slopping beer as he cocked his arm to peg the mug at the offender. "Stay, nephew!" Uncle Binkster restrained the youth. "Pay no heed to the wretch, doubtless he's in his cups -- " "Drunk, am I, you old sot!" the Choob yelled, overturning the table as he leaped up, grabbing for the hilt of his foot-long sword. "I'll ha' a strip o' thy wrinkled hide for that allegation -- " His threat was cut off abruptly as a tankard, hurled from across the room, clipped him over the ear, sending him reeling into the next IF table, whose occupants leaped up with indignant shouts and flailing fists. "Gentlemen, time, time!" the landlord wailed, before diving behind the bar amid a barrage of pewter. Retief finished his beer in a long swallow and rose, looming over the battle raging about his knees. "A pleasure, gentlemen," he addressed the room at large. "I hate to leave such a friendly gathering, but Staff Meeting time is here." "Farewell, Sir Retief," Prinkle panted from under the table, where he grappled with a pale-furred local of about his own weight. "Call around any time for a drop and a bit of friendly political chat." "Thanks," Retief said. "If things get too slow in the front line trenches I'll remember your invitation." II ence room -- a converted packing room in the former warehouse temporarily housing the Terran Mission to the newly liberated planet Oberon -- First Secretary Magnan gave him a sour look. "Well -- here you are at last. I'd begun to fear you'd lingered to roister with low companions in your usual manner." "Not quite my usual manner," Retief corrected. "We'd barely started to roister when I remembered Staff Meeting. By the way, what do you know about a fellow called Hoobrik the Uncouth?" Magnan looked startled. "Why, that name is known only to a handful of us in the inner security circle," he said in a lowered tone, glancing about. "Who leaked it to you, Retief?" "A few hundred irate locals. They didn't seem to know it was a secret." "Well, whatever you do, act surprised when the Ambassador mentions it," Magnan cautioned his junior as they took seats at the long table. "My," he went on as the shouts of the crowd outside the building rose to a thunderous level, "how elated the locals are, now they realize we've relieved them of the burdens of Groaci overlordship! Hear their merry cries!" "Remarkable," Retief agreed. "They have a better command of invective than the Groaci themselves." "Why, Wilbur," Magnan said as Colonel Saddlesore, the Military Attache slipped into the chair beside him, avoiding his glance. "However did you get that alarming discoloration under your eye?" "Quite simple, actually." The colonel bit off his words like bullets. "I was struck by a thrown political slogan." Magnan sniffed. "There's no need for recourse to sarcasm." "The slogan," Saddlesore ampliTied, "was inscribed on the rind of a bham-bham fruit of the approximate size and weight of a well-hit cricket ball." "I saw three small riots myself on the way in to the office," the Press Attache said in a pleased tone. "Remarkable enthusiasm these locals show for universal suffrage." "I think it's time, however," the Counselor put in ponderously, "that someone explained to them that the term 'political machine' does not necessarily refer to a medium tank." The chatter around the long table cut off abruptly as Ambassador Clawhammer, a small pinkfaced man with an impressive paunch, entered the room, glowered at his staff as they rose, waved them to their seats as he waited for silence. "Well, gentlemen," he looked around the table. "What progress have you to report aneht the preparation of the populace for the balloting?" A profound silence ensued. "What about you, Chester?" Clawhammer addressed the Counselor. "I seem to recall instructing you to initiate classes in parliamentary procedure among these riffraff -- that is to say, among the free citizens of Oberon." "I tried, Mr. Ambassador. I tried," Chester said sadly. "They didn't seem to grasp the idea quite. They chose up sides and staged a pitched battle for possession of the chair." "Ah -- I can report a teentsy bit of progress in my campaign to put across the idea of one man, one vote," a slendernecked Political Officer spoke up. "They got the basic idea, all right." He paused. "The only trouble was, they immediately deduced the corollary: one less man, one less vote." He sighed, "Luckily, they were evenly matched, so no actual votes were lost." "You might point out the corollary to the corollary," Retief suggested, "the lighter the vote, the smaller the Post Office." "What about your assigned task of voter registration, eh. Magnan?" the Chief of Mission barked. "Are you reporting failure too?" "Why, no indeed, sir, not exactly failure; at least not utter failure; it's too soon to announce that -- " "Oh?" The Ambassador looked ominous. "When do you think would be an appropriate time? After disaster strikes?" "I'd like to propose a rule limiting the number of political parties to P minus #, P being the number of voters," Magnan said hastily. "Otherwise we run the risk that no one gets.a majority." "No good, Magnan," the Counselor for P R Affairs spoke up. "We don't want t# risk a charge of meddling. However," he added thoughtfully, "we might just up the nomination fee to a figure sufIF ficiently astronomical to keep the trash out -- that is, to discourage the weakly motivated." "I don't know, Irving," the Econ Officer ran his fingers through his thinning hair in a gesture of frustration. "What we really need is to prune the ranks of the voters more drastically. Now, far be it from me to propose strong-arm methods -- but what if we tried out a modified Grandfather Rule?" AY -- a touch of the traditional might be in order at that, Oscar," the Political Officer agreed tentatively. "Just what did you have in mind?" "Actually I haven't worked out the details -- but how about limiting the franchise to those who have grandfathers? Or possibly grandchildren? Or even both?" "Gentlemen!" Ambassador Clawhammer cut short the debate. "We must open our sights. The election promises to degenerate into a debacle of ruinous proportions, career-wise, unless we break through with a truly fresh approach." He paused impressively. "Fortunately," he continued in the modest tones of Caesar accepting the crown, "I have evolved such an approach." He raised a hand in kindly remonstrance at the chorus of congratulations that broke out at his announcement. "It's clear, gentlemen, that what is needed is the emergence of a political force that will weld together the strands of Oberonian political coloration into a unified party capable of seating handy majorities. A force conversant with the multitudinous benefits which would stem from a sympathetic attitude toward Terran interests in the Sector." "Yes, Chief," an alert underling from the Admin Section took his cue. "But, gosh, who could possibly produce such a miracle from the welter of divergent political creeds here on Oberon? They're practically at swords' points with each other over each and every question of policy, both foreign and domestic." Clawhammer nodded acknowledgment. "Your question is an acute one, Dimplick. Happily, the answer is at hand. I have made contact, through confidential channels, with a native leader of vast spiritual influence, who bids fair to fulfill the role to perfection." He paused to allow, the staff to voice spontaneous expressions of admiration, then raised a palm for silence. "While 'Golly!' and 'Wow!' are perhaps less elegant effusions than one might logically expect from an assemblage of senior career diplomats," he said sternly, but with a redeeming twinkle in his small, redrimmed eyes, "I'll overlook the lapse this time on the basis of your obvious shock at receiving such glad tidings after your own abysmal failures to produce any discernible progress." "Sir, may we know the name of this messiah?" Magnan chirped. "When do we get to meet him?" "Curious that you should employ that particular term with reference to Hoobrik," Clawhammer said complacently. "At this moment, the guru is meditating in the mountains, surrounded by his chelas, or disciples, known as Tsuggs in the local patois." "Did you say -- Hoobrik?" Magnan queried uncertainly. "Goodness, what a coincidence that he should have the same name as that ruffian of a bandit chief who had the unmitigated effrontery to send one of his strong-arm men to threaten your Excellency!" Clawhammer's pink features deepened to a dull magenta which clashed sharply with his lime-green seersucker suit. "I fear, Magnan," he said in a tone like a tire-iron striking flesh, "that you've absorbed a number of erroneous impressions. His Truculence, Spiritual Leader Hoobrik, dispatched an emissary, it's true, to propose certain accommodations sphere-of-influence-wise; but to proceed from that circumstance to an inference that I have yielded to undue pressures is an unwarranted speculative leap!" "Possibly I just misinterpreted his messenger's phraseology, sir," Magnan said with a tight little smile. "It didn't seem to me that 'foreign blood-suckers' and 'craven paper-pushers' sounded all that friendly." but words will never hurt us,' eh, sir?" the Econ Officer piped brightly, netting himself a stab of the Ambassadorial eye. "Still, it's rather strong language," Colonel Saddlesore spoke up to fill the conversational gap. "But I daresay you put the fellow in his place, eh, Mr. Ambassador?" "Why, as to that, I've been pondering the precisely correct posture to adopt vis-a-vis the Tsuggs, protocol-wise. I confess for a few moments I toyed with the idea of a beefed-up #-B: Massive Dignity, with overtones of Leashed Ire; but cooler counsels soon prevailed." "How about a #, sir?" the Econ Officer essayed. "Amused Contempt, with just a hint of Unpleasant Surprise in the Offing?" "Too subtle," Colonel Saddlesore grunted. "What about the old standby, #-A?" "Oh, the old 'Threat to Break Off Talks' ploy, eh? Embellished with a side-issue of Table-Shape Dispute, I assume?" mer called the conference to heel. "You forget that the date of the elections is rushing toward us! We've no time for traditional ploys. The problem is simple: how IF best to arrive at a meeting of the minds with the guru." "Why not just call him in and offer to back him in a takeover, provided he plays ball?" the PR Chief proposed bluntly. "I assume, Irving," Clawhammer said into the shocked silence, "that what you actually meant to suggest was that we give His Truculence assurances of Corps support in his efforts to promote Oberonian welfare -- in the event of his securing the confidence of the electorate, as evinced by victory at the polls, of course." "Yeah, something like that," Irving muttered, sliding down in his chair. "Now," Clawhammer said, "the question remains, how best to tender my compliments to His Truculence, isolated as he is in his remote fastness -- " "Why, simple enough, sir," Magnan said. "We just send a messenger along with an invitation to tea. Something impressive in a gold-embossed, I'd suggest." "I understand this fellow Hoobrik has ten thousand blood-thirsty cutthroats -- ah, that is, wisdomhungry students -- at his beck and call," the Econ Officer contributed. "They say anybody who goes up there comes back with his tail cropped." "Small hazard, since we Terries have no tails," Magnan said. "I've got a funny feeling they'd figure out something else to crop," Oscar retorted sharply. "Am I to infer, Magnan, you're volunteering to convey the bid?" Clawhammer inquired blandly. "Me, sir?" Magnan paled visibly. "Heavens, I'd love to -- except that I'm under observation for possible fourth-degree cocoa bums." "Fourth-degree burns?" Colonel Saddlesore wondered aloud. "I'd like to see that. I've heard of first, second, and third degree, but -- " "The symptoms are invisible to lay inspection," Magnan snapped. "Additionally, my asthma is aggravated by high altitudes." "By Gad," Colonel Saddlesore whispered to his neighbor, "'d like a chance to confront these fellows -- " "Better wear your armor, Wilbur," his confidant replied. "From all reports, they weigh in at three hundred pounds and wear six-foot cutlasses with which they lay about them freely when aroused. And they say the sight of a Terry arouses them worse than anything." " -- but, as I was about to say, my duties require that I hole up in my office for the forseeable future," the colonel finished. "Cutlasses, you say?" the Econ Officer pricked up his ears. "Hmm. Might be a market here weapons -- for police use only, of course." "Capital notion, Depew," the Political Officer nodded approvingly. "Nothing like a little firepower to bring out the natural peace-loving tendencies of the people." "Now, gentlemen -- let us avoid trines," Clawhammer said sharply. "Our only motive, let us remember, is to bring the liberated populace to terms with the political realities -- in this case, the obvious need for a man on horseback -- or should I say a Tsugg on Vornchback?" The Terran envoy smiled indulgently at his whimsy. "I have a question, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "Since we're here to supervise free elections, why don't we let the Oberonians work out their own political realities?" Clawhammer looked blank. "Just -- ah -- how do you mean?" the Political Officer prompted uneasily. "Why don't we let them nominate whomever they want, vote for any candidate they like?" Retief explained. "I suggest you forget these radical notions, young fellow," Clawhammer said sternly. "These free elections will be conducted in the way that free elections have always been conducted. And now that I've considered the matter, it occurs to me it might be valuable experience for you to pay the proposed call on His Truculence. It might serve to polish your grasp of protocol a trifle." "But, sir," Magnan spoke up. "I need Mr. Retief to help me do the Consolidated Report of Delinquent Reports -- " "You'll have to manage alone, I fear, Magnan. And now, back to the ramparts of democracy, gentlemen! As for you, Retief -- " The Ambassador fixed Retief with a sharp eye: "I suggest you comport yourself with a becoming modesty among the Tsugg. I should dislike to have report any unfortunate incident." "I'll do my best to see that no such report reaches you, sir," Retief said cheerfully. Ill T HE green morning sun of Oberon shone down warmly as Retief, mounted on a wiry Struke, a slightly smaller and more docile cousin of the fierce Vorch tamed by the Tsuggs, rode forth from the city gates. Pink and yellow borms warbled in the tree tops; the elusive sprinch darted from grass tuft to grass tuft. The rhythmic whistling of doody-bugs crying to their young supplied a somnolent backdrop to the idyl. Retief passed through a region of small, tidy farms, where sturdy Doob peasants gaped from the furrows. The forest closed in as the path wound upward into the IF foothills. In mid-afternoon he tethered the Struke and lunched beside a waterfall on pate sandwiches and sparkling Bacchus Black from a coldflask. He was just finishing off his mousse eclaire when a two-foot steel arrow whistled past his ear to bury itself six inches in the dense blue wood of a Nunu tree behind him. Retief rose casually, yawned, stretched, took out a vanilla dope stick and puffed it alight, at the same time scanning the underbrush. There was a quick movement behind a clump of Foon bushes; a second bolt leaped past him, almost grazing his shoulder, to rattle away in the brush. Appearing to notice nothing, Retief took a leisurely step toward the Nunu tree, slipped suddenly behind it. With a swift motion he grasped a small, limber branch growing out at waist height on his side of the two-foot bole, bent it down and pegged the tip to the shaggy, porous bark, using the match-sized dope stick to pin it in place. Then he moved quickly away, keeping the tree between himself and the unseen archer, to the concealment of a dense patch of shrubbery. A minute passed; a twig popped. A bulky, tattooed Tsugg appeared, a vast, dumpy figufe clad in dirty silks, holding a short, thick, recurved bow clamped in one boulder-like Fist, a quarrel nocked, the string drawn. The dacoit tiptoed forward, jumped suddenly around the tree. Finding his quarry fled, he turned, stood with his back to the tree peering into the undergrowth. At that moment, the bent branch, released by the burning of the dope stick, sprang outward, ramming the astounded bowman in the seat of his baggy green velveteen trousers. The arrow smacked into the dirt at his feet as he jumped, then stood rigid. "Don't strike, sir!" he urged in a plaintive tenor. "The older lads put me up to it -- " Retief strolled from his shelter, nodded easily to the Tsugg, plucked the bow from his nerveless grip. "Nice workmanship," he said, inspecting the weapon. "Groaci trade goods?" "Trade goods?" the Tsugg said with a note of indignation. "Just because yer partner has a dirk at me back's no cause to make mockery of me. I plundered it from the Five-eyes all open and aboveboard, so help me." "Sorry," Retief said. He withdrew the arrow from the loam, fitted it to the bow experimentally. "You're not by chance a member of Hoobrik's band, are you?" he inquired off-handedly. "Too right it's not by chance," the Tsugg said emphatically. "I went through the Ordeal, same's the other lads." "Lucky we met," Retief said. "I'm on my way to pay a call on His Truculence. Can you lead me to him?" The Tsugg straightened his twohundred-and-ninety-pound bulk. "Tell yer crony to do his worst," he said with a small break in his voice. "Fim Gloob' s not the Tsugg to play the treacher." "It wasn't exactly treachery I had in mind," Retief demurred. "Just ordinary diplomacy." "Yer threats will avail ye naught," Fim Gloob declared. "I see what you mean," Retief said. "Still, there should be some way of working this out." "No outsider goes to the camp of Hoobrik but as a prisoner." The Tsugg rolled his shiny black eyes at the Terran. "Ah, sir -- would ye mind asking yer sidekick not to poke so hard? I fear me he'll rip me weskit, stole for me by me aged mums it were, a rare keepsake." "Prisoner, eh, Fim? By the way, I don't have a sidekick." "That being the way of it," Fim Gloob said carefully, after a short, thoughtful pause, "who'd be the villain holding the blade to me kipglands?" "As far as I know," Retief said candidly, "there's nobody here but you and me." T HE Tsugg turned his head cautiously,. peered behind him. With a grunt of annoyance he snapped a finger at the offending bough. "Me and me overactive imagination," he snorted. "And now -- " He turned to Retief with a scowl. "Remember, I still have the bow," Retief said pleasantly. "And a mort o' good it'll do ye," Fim snarled, advancing. "Only a Tsugg born and bred has the arm to draw that stave!" "Oh?" Retief set the arrow and with an easy motion pulled until the arrowhead rested against the bow, the latter being bent into a sharp curve. Another inch -- and the stout laminated wood snapped with a sharp twang. "I see what you mean," Retief said. "But then the Groaci always did produce flimsy merchandise." "You -- you broke it!" Fim Gloob said in tones of deep dismay. "Never mind -- I'll steal you a new one. We have some ladies' models in the Recreation Kits that ought not to overstrain you." "But -- I'm reckoned the stoutest bowman in the band." "Don't give it another thought, Fim. They'll love you when you bring in a live Terry, single-handed." "Who, me?" "Of course. After all, I'm alone and unarmed. How could I resist?" "Aye -- but still -- " "Taking me in as a prisoner IF would look a lot better than having me saunter in on my own and tell Hoobrik you showed me the route." "Wouldst do such a dirty trick?" Fim gasped. "I wouldst -- unless we start immediately," Retief assured the Tsugg. Fim sighed. "I guess I know when I'm licked. I mean when you're licked. Let's go, prisoner. And let's hope His Truculence is in a good mood. Otherwise he'll clap ye on the rack and have the whole tale out of ye in a trice!" IV ing about the communal cooking pot or sprawling in the shade under the striped awnings stretched between the trees looked up in mild interest as Retief appeared on struke-back, Fim Gloob behind him astride his Vorch, glowering ferociously as he verbally prodded the lone Terran forward. "Ho, that's far enough," he roared. "Dismount, while I seek instruction o' His Truculence whether to h'ist ye out of hand or ha' a bit o' sport wi' ye first." "Ha, what be this, Gloob?" a bulky outlaw boomed as Retief swung down from the saddle. "An off-worlder, I trow!" "That he's no Oberonian, is plain," another offered. "Mayhap a two-eyed variety o' Five-eyes." Fim yelled, "Clear the way -- I've fetched this Terry here to divert the great Hoobrik wi' his saucy sayings." "Here, what passes?" a familiar baritone cut through the clamor. A large Tsugg in a red sash pushed through the mob, which gave way grudgingly, with much muttering. The newcomer halted with a jerk when his eye fell on Retief. "Methinks," he said, "I've seen you before, sirrah." "We've met,' Retief acknowledged. "Though all you Terries look alike to me." Dir Blash fingered his jaw gingerly. "Meseemeth 'twas in the Street of the Sweetmakers -- " "So it was." "Aha! I've got it!" Dir Blash clapped Retief on the shoulder. "My boon companion! Ah, bullies," he addressed his fellows, "this Terry gave me a shot of something with a kick like a Vorch -- though for the life of me I can't recall the precise circumstances. How wert thou yclept again, sirrah?" "Retief; lucky you have the kind of memory you do, Dir Blash; your compatriots were just debating the best method of putting me out of my misery." "Say you so?" Dir Blash looked around threateningly, his hand on the hilt of his cutlass. "Nobody murders my drinking buddies but me.He turned back to Retief. "Say, you wouldn't chance to have any more of the same, would you?" "I'm saving it for a special occasion," Retief said. "Well, what could be more special than a reprieve from being staked out on a zing-wasp hive, eh?" "We'll celebrate later," Retief said. "Right now I'd appreciate a short interview with His Truculence." "If I use my influence to get you in, wilt let me have another sample later?" "If things work out as they usually do," Retief said, "I think you can be sure of it." "Then come along, Dir Retief. I'll see what I can do." lounging in a hammock under a vari-colored canopy, gazed indifferently at Retief as Dir Blash made the introductions. He was an immense Tsugg, above the average height of his kind, his obesity draped in voluminous beaded robes. He selected a large green berry from a dented silver bowl at his elbow, shook exotic salts over it from a heavy gold saltshaker and popped it into his mouth. "So?" he grunted, spitting the seeds over the side. "Why disturb my meditations with trifles? Dispose of the creature in any way that amuses you, Blash -- but save the head. I'll impale it on a pike and give it to the Terry chieftain -- gift-wrapped, of course." Dir Blash nodded, scratching himself under the ribs. "Well, thus doth the tart disintegrate, Retief," he said in tones of mild regret. "Let's go -- " "I don't want to be a spoilsport, your Truculence," Retief spoke up, "but Ambassador Clawhammer only allows his staff to be decapitated at Tuesday morning staff meetings." "Staff meetings?" Hoobrik wondered aloud. "Is that anything like a barbecue?" "Close," Retief agreed. "Quite often a diplomat or two are flayed alive and roasted over a slow fire." "Hmm." Hoobrik looked thoughtful. "Maybe I should introduce the custom here. "My wish is to. keep up with the latest trends in government." "In that connection," Retief said, offering the stiff parchment envelope containing the invitation to the reception, "His Excellency the Terrestrial Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary presents his compliments and requests me to hand you this." "Eh? What be this?" Hoobrik fingered the document gingerly. "Ambassador Clawhammer requests the honor of your company at a ceremonial affair celebrating the election," Retief explained. "Ceremonial affair?" Hoobrik IF shifted uneasily, causing the hammock to sway dangerously. "What kind of ceremony?" "Just a small semi-formal gathering of kindred souls. It gives everyone a chance to show off their clothes and exchange veiled insults face to face." "Waugh! What kind of contest is this? Give me a good hand-tohand disemboweling any day!" "That comes later," Retief said. "It's known as Dropping by the Residence for a Drink. After the Party." A Hoobrik muttered. "Is it possible you Terries are more ferocious than I'd suspected?" "Ha!" Dir Blash put in. "I myself dispatched half a dozen of the off-worlders only this morning when they sought to impede my entrance to a grog shop in the village." "So?" Hoobrik yawned. "Too bad. For a moment, things were begining to look interesting." He tore a corner off the gold-edged invitation and used it to poke at a bit of fruit rind wedged between his teeth. "Well, off with you, Blash -- unless you want to play a featured role at my first staff meeting." "Come, Terry," the red-sashed Tsugg growled, reaching for Retief s arm. "I just remembered the part of yesterday's carouse that had slipped my mind." "I think," Retief said, evading the sub-chiefs grab, "it's time for that jolt I promised you." He stepped in close and rammed a pair of pile-drive punches to Dir Blash's midriff, laced a hard right to the jaw as the giant doubled over and fell past him, out cold. "Here!" Hoobrik yelled. "Is that any way to repay my hospitality?" He stared down at his fallen henchman. "Dir Blash, get up, thou malingerer, and avenge my honor!" Dir Blash groaned. One foot twitched. He settled back with a snore. "My apologies," Retief said, easing the Groaci pistol from inside his shirt. "Protocol has never been my strong suit. Having committed a faux pas , I'd best be on my way. Which route would be least likely to result in the demise of any of your alert sentries?" "Stay, off-worlder. Wouldst spread tidings of this unflattering event abroad, to the detriment of my polling strength?" "Word might leak out," Retief conceded. "Especially if any of your troops get in my way." " 'Tis a shame not to be borne!" Hoobrik said hoarsely. "All Oberon knoweth that only a Tsugg can smite another Tsugg senseless." He looked thoughtful. "Still, if the molehill will not come to Meyer, Meyer must to the molehill, as the saying goeth. Since thou hast in sooth felled my liegeman, it follows you must be raised at once to Tsugghood, legitimizing the event after the fact, as it were." "I'd be honored," Retief said amiably. "Provided, of course, that you authorize me to convey your gracious acceptance of His Excellency's invitation." Hoobrik looked glum. "Well -- we can always loot the Embassy afterward. Very well, Terry -- Tsugg-to-be, that is. Done!" The chieftain heaved his bulk from the hammock, stirred Dir Blash with a booted toe, at which the latter groaned and sat up. "Up, sluggard!" Hoobrik roared. "Summon a few varlets to robe me for a formal occasion! And my guest will require suitable robes, too." He glanced at Retief. "But don't don them yet, lest they be torn and muddied." "The ceremony sounds rather strenuous," Retief commented. "Not the ceremony," Hoobrik corrected. "That cometh later. First cometh the Ordeal. If you survive that I'll have my tailor fit you out as befits a sub-chief of the Tsugg." T HE Ceremonial Site for Ordeal Number One -- a clearing on a forest slope with a breath-taking view of the valley below -- was crowded with Tsugg tribesmen, good-naturedly quarreling, shouting taunts, offering and accepting wagers and challenges, passing wineskins from hand to grimy hand. "All right, everybody out of the Ring of the First Trial," Dir Blash shouted, implementing his suggestion with hearty buffets left and right. "Unless ye plan to share the novitiate's hazards." The mountaineers gave ground, leaving an open space some Fifty feet in diameter, ta the center of which Retief was led. "All right, the least ye can do is give the off-worlder breathing space." Dir Blash exhorted the bystanders to edge back another yard. "Now, Retief -- this is a sore trial, 'tis true, but 'twill show you the mettle of the Tsugg, that we impose so arduous a criterion on oursel's!" He broke off at a sound of crashing in the underbrush. A pair of tribesmen on the outer fringe of the audience flew into the air as if blown up by a mine, as with ferocious snorts, a wild Vorch, seven feet at the shoulder and armed with down-curving tusks, charged from the underbrush. His rush carried him through the ranks of the spectators into the inner circle, his short tail whipping, his head tossing as he sought a new target. His inflamed eye fell on Dir Blash. "Botheration," the latter commented in mild annoyance as the beast lowered its head and charged. Leaning aside, the Tsugg raised a fist of the size and weight IF of a hand-axe, brought it down with a resounding bronggl on the carnivore's skull. The unlucky beast folded in mid-leap, skidded chin-first to fetch up against Retiefs feet. "Nice timing," he remarked. "Ye'd think the brute did it apurpose, to plague a serious occasion," Dir Blash said disapprovingly. "Drag the silly creature away," he directed a pair of Tsugg. "He'll be broke to harness for his pains. And now," he turned to Retief, "if ye're ready -- " Retief smiled encouragingly. "Right, then. The first trial is -- take a deep breath and hold it for the count of ten." Dir Blash watched Retief s expression alertly for signs of dismay. Seeing none, he raised a finger disappointedly. "Very well. Inhale." Retief inhaled. "O netwothreefourfives ix se ve neightnineten," Dir Blash said in a rush and stared curiously at the Terran, who stood relaxed before him. A few approving shouts rang out. Then came scattered hand-claps. "Well," Dir Blash grunted. "You did pretty fair, I suppose, for an off-worlder. Hardly turned blue at all. You pass, I suppose." "Hey," someone called from the front rank of the gallery. "He's not -- " "Not still -- " someone else queried. "Still holding his breath?" a third Tsugg then asked wonderingiy"O' course not, lack wits!" Dir Blash bellowed. "How could he? E'en Grand Master Cutthroat Dirdir Hooch held out but to the count of twelve!" He looked closely at Retief. "Thou hast indeed resumed respiration?" he murmured. "Of course," Retief reassured the Tsugg. "I was just grandstanding." Dir Blash grunted. "In sooth, I've a feeling ye went a good thirteen, if truth were known," he muttered confidentially. "Hast made a specialty of suffocation?" "Staff meetings, remember?" Retief prompted. "To be sure." Dir Blash looked disgruntled. "Well, on to the Second Trial, Terry. Ye'll find this one e'en a straiter test of Tsugghood than the last!" He led the way upslope, Retief close behind, the crowd following. The path deteriorated into a rocky gully winding up between nearly vertical walls of rock. Pebbles rattled around the party from the crumbling cliffs above as members clambered toward choice vantage points. A medium-sized boulder came bounding down from a crag to whistle overhead and crash thunderously away among the trees below. The journey ended in a small natural amphitheater, the floor of which was thickly littered with stones of all sizes. Spectators took up positions around the periphery above as pebbles continued to clatter down around the tester and testee, who stood alone at the center of the target. A head-sized rock smashed down a yard from Retief. A chunk the size of a grand piano poised directly above him gavean ominous rumble and slid downward six inches amid a shower of gravel. "What happens if one of those scores a bull's-eye on the candidate?" Retief inquired. "It's considered a bad omen," Dir Blash said. "Drat the pesky motes!" he added as a small fragment bounded off the back of his neck. "These annoyances detract from the solemnity of the occasion." "On the contrary," Retief demurred politely. "I think they add a lot of interest to the situation." "Umm. Mayhap." Dir Blash gazed absently upward, moving his head slightly to avoid being brained by a baseball-sized missile. "Now, off-worlder," he addressed Retief, "prepare for the moment of truth. Bend over -- " he paused impressively -- " and touch your toes!" "Do I get to bend my knees?" Retief temporized. "Bend whatever you like," Dir Blash said with airy contempt. "I trow this is one feat ye've not practiced at your Ordeal of the Staff Meeting!" "True," Retief conceded. "The closest we come is lifting ourselves by our bootstraps." He assumed a serious expression, bent over and, with a smooth motion, touched his fingertips to his toes. "He did it in one try," someone called. "Didn't even take a bounce!" another added. The applause was general. "Lacking in style," Dir Blash grumbled. "But a pass, I allow. But now you face the Third Ordeal, where ye're tricks will do ye no good. Come along." They moved off. The stone piano crunched down on the spot he and Retief had just vacated. V T HE route to the Third Site led upward through a narrow cut to emerge on a bare rock slope. Fifty feet away a flat-topped rock spire loomed up from the depths, joined to the main mass of the peak by a meandering ribbon of rock some six inches in width, except where it narrowed to a knife edge, halfway across. Dir Blash sauntered out across the narrow bridge, gazing around him at the scenery. "A splendid prospect, eh, Retief?" he called over his shoulder. "Look on it well; it may be thy last. What comes next has broken many a strong Tsugg down into a babbling Glert." Retief tried the footing; it held. Keeping his eyes on the platform IF ahead, he walked quickly across. "Now," Dir Blash said, "you may wish to take a moment to commune with your patron devils or whatever it is you off-worlders burn incense to." "Thanks, I'm in good shape incantation-wise," Retief reassured him. "Only last night I joined in a toast to the auditors." "In that case -- " Dir Blash pointed impressively to a flat stone that lay across two square rocks, the top of which cleared the ground by a good twelve inches. "Leap the obstacle in a single bound." Retief studied the hurdle from several angles before taking up his position before it. "I see you hesitate," Dir Blash taunted. "Dost doubt thy powers at last, Terry?" "Last year an associate of mine jumped fifty names on the promotion list," Retief said. "Can I do less?" Standing flat-footed, he hopped over the barrier. Turning, he hopped back again. There was a moment of stunned silence. Suddenly pandemonium broke out Dir Blash hesitated only a moment, then joined in the glad cries. "Congratulations, Dir Tief!" he bellowed, pounding the Terran on the shoulder. "I warrant an offworlder of thy abilities would be an embarrassment to all hands -- but in sooth thou'rt now a Tsugg of the Tsuggs, and thy attainments are an adornment to our ilk!" brik the Uncouth as he stuffed a handful of sugar-coated green olives into his mouth. "According to Blash you went through the Ordeal like a Tsugg to the pavilion born. I may keep you on as bodyguard, Dir Tief, after I get the pavilion born. I may keep you on as bodyguard. Dir Tief, after I get the vote out and myself in." "Coming from your Truculence, that's praise indeed," Retief ness to offer yourself as a candidate without a whimper." "What's to whimper?" Hoobrik demanded. "After my lads have rounded up more voters than the opposition can muster, I'll be free to fill my pockets as best I may. 'Tis a prospect I face calmly." "True," Retief said. "But first there are a few rituals to be gotten past. There's Whistle-stopping, Baby-kissing, Fence-sitting, and Mud-slinging, plus a considerable amount of Viewing with Alarm." "Hmm." Hoobrik rubbed his chin thoughtfully. "Are these Ordeals the equal of our Rites of Tsugghood, Retief?" "Possibly even worse," Retief solemnly assured the chieftain. "Especially if you wear an Indian war bonnet." "Out upon it!" Hoobrik pounded his tankard on the table. "A Tsugg fears neither man nor beast." "But did you ever face a quorum of Women Voters?" Retief countered quickly. "My stout lads will ride down all opposition," Hoobrik declared with finality. "I've already made secret arrangements with certain Five-eyed off-worlders to supply me with all the write-in ballots I need to make everything legal and proper. Once in office, I can settle down to businesslike looting in an orderly manner." "But remember," Retief cautioned, "You'll be expected tOi stand on your Party Platform -- at least for the first few weeks." "W-weeks?" Hoobrik faltered. "What is this platform, Retief?" "It's a pretty shaky structure," Retief confided. "I've never known one to last past the first Legislative Rebuff." "What, yet another Ordeal?" "Don't worry about it, your Truculence; it seldom goes as far as Impeachment." "Well? Don't keep me in suspense!" Hoobrik roared. "What doth this rite entail?" "This is where your rival politicians get even with you for winning, by charging you with High Crimes and Misdemeanors -- " "Stay!" Hoobrik yelled. "Is there no end to these torments?" "Certainly," Retief reassured the aroused leader. "After you retire, you become a Statesman and are allowed out on alternate All Fools Days to be queried as to your views on any subject sufficiently trivial to grace the pages of the Sunday Supplements." "Arrrhh!" Hoobrik growled and drained his mug. "See here, Retief," he said. "On pondering the matter, methinks 'twould be a gracious gesture on my part to take second place on the ticket and let a younger Tsugg assume party leadership; you, for example, Blash," he addressed the sub-chief. "Who, me?" the latter blurted. "Nay, my liege -- as I've said before, I am not now and do not intend to be a candidate." "Who, then?" Hoobrik waved his arms in agitation. "We need a Tsugg who'll appeal to a broad spectrum of voters. A good scimitarman for beating down opposition inside the party, a handy clubwielder to bring in the Independents, a cool hand with a dirk, for committee infighting -- " He paused, looking suddenly thoughtful. "Well, I'll leave you gentlemen to look over the lists," Retief said, rising. "May I tell the Ambassador to expect you at the post-election victory reception?" "We'll be there," Hoobrik said. "And I think I have a sure-fire Tsugg standard-bearer in mind to pull in the vote -- " lights strung in the hedges ringIF ing the former miniature golf course pressed into service as Embassy grounds, the Terran diplomats stood in conversation clumps across the fairways and greens, glasses in hand, nervously eyeing the door through which Ambassador Clawhammer's entrance was expected momentarily. Magnan said to Retief, glancing at his watch, "The first results will be in any moment." "I think we need have no fear of the outcome," Saddlesore stated. "Guru Hoobrik's students have been particularly active in these final hours, zealously applying posters to the polling places." "And applying knots to the heads of reluctant converts," the Political Officer added. "What I'm wondering is -- after Hoobrik's inauguration, what's to prevent his applying the same techniques to foreign diplomats?" "Tradition, my boy," the colonel said soothingly. "We may be shot as spies or deported as undesirables -- but shaped up by wardheelers, no." A stir crossed the lawn. Ambassador Clawhammer appeared, ornate in the Burgundy cutaway Regs for early evening ceremonial wear. "Well? No word yet?" He stared challengingly at his underlings, accepting one of the four drinks simultaneously thrust at him by alert junior officers. "My private polls indicate an early lead for the Tsugg party, increasing to a commanding majority as the rural counties report." "Commanding is right," Magnan muttered behind his hand. "One of the ruffians had the audacity to order me to hold his gluepot while he affixed a poster to the front door of the Embassy." "What cheek," the Political Officer gasped. "You didn't do it?" "Of course not. "He held the gluepot, and I affixed the placard." Happy shouts sounded from the direction of the gate; a party of Tsugg appeared, flamboyant in pink and yellow, handing out footlong yellow cigars. A throng of lesser Oberonians followed, all apparently in good spirits. "A landslide victory," one called to the assembly at large. "Break out the wassail bowl!" "Is this official. Depew?" the Ambassador demanded of his Counselor, who arrived at that moment at a trot, waving a sheaf of papers. "I'm afraid so -- that is, I'm delighted to confirm the people's choice," he panted. "It's amazing -- the Tsugg candidate polled an absolute majority, even in the oppositions' strongholds. It looks like every voter on the rolls voted the straight Tsugg ticket." "Certes, Terry," a Grimble confirmed jovially, grabbing two glasses from a passing tray. "We know a compromise candidate when we see one." " 'Tis a clear mandate from the people," a Tsugg declaimed. "Hoobrik will be along in a trice to help with sorting out the spoils. As for myself, I'm not greedy; a minor Cabinet post will do nicely" "Out upon thee!" a jovial voice boomed as the Tsugg chieftain swept through the gate, flanked by an honor guard of grinning scimitar-bearers. "No undignified rooting at the trough, lads -- there's plenty to go around." "Congratulations, your Truculence," Ambassador Clawhammer cried, advancing with outstretched hand. "I'm sure that at this moment you're feeling both proud and humble as you point with pride -- " "Humble?" Hoobrik roared. "That's for losers, Terry." "To be sure." Clawhammer conceded the point. "Now, your Truculence, I don't want to delay the victory celebration -- but why don't we first just sign this little Treaty of Eternal Peace and Friendship, set up to run for five years with a renewal option -- " "You'll have to speak to the new Planetary President about that, Terry," the chieftain waved the proffered document away. "As for myself, I have some important drinking to catch up on." "But -- I was informed by a usually reliable source -- " Clawhammer turned to glare at the Counselor -- "that the Tsugg party had carried off all honors." "True enough. By the way, where is he?" "Where is who?" "Our new Chief Executive, of course -- " Hoobrik broke off, pushed past Clawhammer, rushed forward with outstretched arms, narrowly missing a small water hazard, to embrace Retief, who had just appeared on the scene. "Stand aside, Retief," Clawhammer snapped. "I'm in the midst of a delicate negotiation -- " "Employ a more respectful tone, Terry," Hoobrik admonished the Ambassador sternly. "Consider to whom you're speaking." "To whom I'm speak?" Clawhammer said in bewilderment. "Whom am I speaking to?" "Meet Planetary President Dir Tief," Hoobrik said proudly, waving a hand at Retief. "The winner -- and new champion." VJ was the first to recover his speech. "When? How?" "What's the meaning of this?" Clawhammer burst out. "Am I being made sport of?" "Apparently not, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "It seems they put me on the ballot as a dark horse -- " "You'll be a horse of a darker IF color before I'm through with you -- " Clawhammer went rigid as twin scimitars flashed, ended with their points pressed against his neck. "But how can a Terran be elected as head of the Tsugg party?" the Political Officer asked. "President Tief is no Terry," Hoobrik corrected. "He's a Tsugg after my own heart!" "But -- doesn't the president have to be a natural-born citizen?" "Art suggesting our President is unnatural-born?" Hoobrik grated. "Why, no -- " " 'Tis well. In that case, best you present your credentials at once and we can get down to business." Clawhammer hesitated. A prod of the blade at his jugular assisted him in finding his tongue. "Why, ah, Mr. President -- will your Excellency kindly tell your thugs to put those horrible-looking knives away?" "Certainly, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said easily. "Just as soon as we've cleared up a few points in the treaty. I think it would be a good idea if the new planetary govantee of noninterference in elections from now on -- " "Retief -- you wouldn't dare -- I mean, of course, my boy, whatever you say." "Also, it would be a good idea to strike out those paragraphs sors, technical experts and fiftycredit-a-day economists. We Oberonians would prefer to work out our own fate." "Yes -- yes -- of course, Mr. President. And now -- " "And as to the matter of the one-sided trade agreement -- why don't we just scrap that whole section and substitute a free commerce clause?" "Why -- if I agree to that they'll have my scalp, back in the Department!" "That's better than having it tied to a pole outside my tent," Hoobrik pointed out succinctly. "On the other hand," Retief said, "I think we Tsuggs can see our way clear to supply a modest security force to ensure that nothing violent happens to foreign diplomats among us as long as they stick to diplomacy and leave all ordinary crime to us Oberonians." "Agreed," Clawhammer squaked. "Where's the pen?" It took a quarter of an hour to delete the offending paragraphs, substitute new wording and affix signatures to the imposing document establishing formal relations between the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne and the Republic of Oberon. When the last length of red tape had been affixed and the last blob of sealing wax applied, Retief called for attention. "Now that Terran-Oberonian relations are off on a sound footing," he said, "I feel it's only ap( Please turn to page #) #:# PM #:# PM #:# PM #:# PM #:# PM #:# PM #:# PM T HE view of the geometrically flattened grass in the garden quad of Skag College was a lusterous green this spring. Professor James Whytebom watched it rather distantly through a small window. Some athletic students, the jolly-hockeysticks type, were practicing pitching a cricket ball back and forth. Insects buzzed their dutiful rounds among drowsy flowers. Whyteborn peered at the scene so intently that he did not notice across the crowded Senior Common Room. "Having tea?" Dowles said, questioning the obvious. "Yes, yes," Whyteborn said distractedly. "I will only be a moment. I've just had some Founder's Port to round off my lunch and I am taking some tea to help it settle." "You read the draft of our article that I wrote?" "Yes, Helen brought it home with her after your dinner party." In point of fact Professor Whyteborn suspected the events of the previous evening had extended far beyond the ordinary rituals of an Oxford evening dinner and this was one of the matters which had caused him to gaze so pensively at the garden quad, athletes and insects. "Any comments?" "A remark on the style," Whytebom said. "The paper is littered with the first person plural. We did this, we did that." "There were two of us doing the experiment." "Yes, but the 'we's' in here begin to resemble a mob. I don't like the form much, myself. Every scientific paper these days is full of them. I've always felt you shouldn't use 'we' unless you're an editor, a potentate or a man with a tapeworm." "Well -- " "But never mind, you are at no fault. You're just a Reader in Physics at the moment -- though I hope that will change quickly after publication of this paper -- and haven't had to wade through a thousand manuscripts written in the same style. Ah, and speaking of style. It could be a bit clearer." "Really?" "I don't see why everything cannot be explained in simple, clear, one-syllable words, without obfuscating the issue." The two men laughed quietly, so as not to disturb the Common, 'and Whytebom went on. "There are a few places like that, yes, but generally I believe it's okay. The reader can quickly see that we've done a good job of ruling out other effects in our experiment, so our conclusion that we have detected tachyons is well supported. I was glad to see that you have included quite a lot of material on the correlation checks we did. We must be quite sure of this result." "I think we've pretty well cleared things up, don't you?" Dowles' voice contained just the right blend of assertiveness and deference appropriate to a future son-in-law addressing the father of his fiancee. "Even the most ardent skeptic -- " "Don't become optimistic. Tachyons are a whole new class of particles and they are going to turn theoretical physics on its ear. There will be opposition." The younger man worriedly rubbed a thumbnail against his lower lip. "Surely we won't be doubted too severely. The theoreticians -- Feinberg, Bilaniuk, Sudarshan -- were the ones who put us on the track. They'll stick by us." went on sipping his tea. The Senior Common Room was emptying of the noon crowd, leaving blue curls of pipe smoke layered IF in the air. "Yes, I believe they will. But there are going to be attacks on our work, be sure of it. I called a few people at Cambridge yesterday and they were most disinclined to accept our findings." "Did they have any criticism of the way the experiment was set up?" Dowles said sharply. "No, none." "Their objections can't be serious ones. Any cretin can see -- " Whyteborn shook his head, marveling at the innocence of youth. "You don't see it. Tachyons are faster than light particles. That implies a whole string of new phenomena, not the least of which is the ability to send signals back in time. All the theoreticians agree on that point and I don't fathom any reason not to go along with them." "I know, I know," Dowles said, biting into a scone. It tasted vaguely of cinnamon. "Causal paradoxes. All that stuff about going back in time and shooting your grandfather. I'll admit I don't know how to resolve the paradoxes. That's for the theoreticians to figure out. The fact of the matter is that tachyons do exist -- we've found them." "Right on. And soon everyone will know about it." "How soon? Not until we get this paper touched up, I'd think." "There's a rub about that. I'm afraid," Whyteborn said, lowering his eyes. "It seems one of the fellows down at Cambridge trotted off to the journalists about this; I may have forgotten to ask him not to. At any rate, I received a call from a man at the Times this morning." "Oh." "Don't worry, though, I put him off about it. We agreed to release nothing until we had already informed our colleagues and I intend to stand fast by that. This news is so important I don't want to overstep and get our names touted on the front page. That sort of thing will put off some of the people who are working on tachyons and do us no good." "I'll get right back to my office, then, and work on this paper some more." "No, don't. There's something I would like you to help me with, if you have the time. No appointment with Helen, I take it?" He tried a paternal smile which did not come off very well. Whyteborn had never felt himself to be the fatherly type and his experiments with the role had not worked out well in dealing with Dowles. The young man was his junior in the tachyon experiments and in the physics staff, and at the same time courted Helen Whyteborn. "No, we have nothing planned." "Good. I spent this morning making changes in our apparatus. It was not particularly difficult to alter the experiment to register tachyon reception continuously, instead of getting detailed data on a few particles." "Of what use is that?" "Well, the other evening it occurred to me that this paradox business is going to cause us a lot of trouble. The pencil pushers are going to worry about it. The first thing that will come to mind is that our experiments are wrong -- that conveniently shoves the problem out of sight for a while." "Oho," Dowles said, "you want to get the jump on them." "Right. I want to look for messages in the tachyon background we've detected." "Just like a radio signal, you mean." "Perhaps. I don't know what form they would take. Since tachyons are particles and radio is a wave they won't carry signals the same way. We must simply look and see." "I think that's a good plan," Dowles said, folding his arms so that his tweed jacket wrinkled in thick folds. "It will get the jump on the doubters." Whyteborn smiled to himself, thinking he had handled the discussion quite well. Appealing to his colleague's competitive spirit was the quickest way to get him to working again after an already grueling series of experiments. They both harbored a simmering resentment against the sort of physicist who speculated in ideas like a stock broker, and tachyon theory was rife with them. It was fashionable to deplore further work in the field because the causality paradox "clearly" ruled out their existence. To Whyteborn this was blowing a kernel of truth into a sort of intellectual puffed rice. The paradox showed that something funny was going on but he had never felt that it should be used as a proof against tachyons. And it seemed as though he and Dowles had now proved their point. Whyteborn signed his tab and the two men left the Senior Common Room, carrying with them the odors of steak and kidney pie, that day's main course. the Euclidean perfection of the quad, through an ivy arch and down a small, cobbled lane. Oxford had bulged enormously over the last century but the colleges remained much the same. In fact, of late they had seemed to become even more encrusted with mannerisms and Tudor affectations, if that were possible. Undergraduates wore fashions in ruffles and lace, an Elizabethian touch -- though not, Whyteborn imagined, out of historical interest, since bell-bottomed trousers played a role as well. All this quite suited the Professor. He liked old things simply because they were old and therefore tested. If in science he was an inIF novator, in his personal life he hungered for the remnants of the Edwardian era. Thus he felt particularly discomfited at the turn of events between Dowles and his daughter, Helen. They seemed to have fallen in love, as far as he could tell. (Which was not very far, his having little experience in such matters. His wife had died four years after Helen's birth and had been, to Whyteborn, almost unnoticable even when alive.) He had vague feelings that he should have been more of a father to the girl and was making up for this now by trying to supervise her courtship very severely. But he was not experienced in that direction either and they seemed to be getting around him. He kept feeling that he was being outmaneuvered. For example, a few evenings ago they had all had dinner together and Helen had been going on about her current political hobby, Women's Liberation League. This meant, as far as Whyteborn could tell, better pay and promotion for women, liberalized abortion laws and so on, all without their giving up having doors opened for them, being waited upon or being deferred to in mixed company. At that point Dowles leaned toward him and gave a gentle nudge with his elbow and said, "Helen rather enjoys standing up for her sex, I'll vouch," which sent him and Helen into storms of laughter. Whyteborn had been wondering ever since just how he had been meant to take the remark. He and Dowles passed by one of the liberal arts colleges, nodding to the fellows they knew socially. Whyteborn had never felt entirely comfortable with the people at Oxford who patronized arts, feeling that they did the same to everyone in the scientific colleges, and he was glad to reach the gates near his laboratory. The Skag College gatekeeper was tending to fines notices at the bulletin board and the Professortook the opportunity to stop him. "There's some chance men from the press might be by today," he told the gatekeeper. "I would appreciate it if you'd see they don't interrupt us in the labs." The man nodded, stroking his rough chin. "Don't put them off too strongly, though. Be-suave about it." "Yessir," the man said, "I'll try. I ain't half bloody suave, myself." "Uh, yes," Whyteborn said, and the two men went into the laboratories of Skag College. It took the better part of an hour to explain the changes in the apparatus to Dowles. Their earlier experiment, which discovered tachyons, had depended upon a nuclear source, cesium. Modulation of the electric fields around the cesium nuclei stimulated tachyon emission and the uncharged tachyons were detected by the collisions they made with a sample some meters away. When a tachyon, moving much faster than the speed of light, struck one of the nuclei in the sample, the struck nucleus recoiled with an inordinately high momentum and created shock waves in the lattice of the sample. These shock waves were picked up and displayed on an oscilloscope. Now the nuclear source had been removed. Any tachyons passing through the laboratory and striking the sample would also register on the oscilloscope. Such background tachyons had been found in the original experiment and had been ignored. Final proof that it was indeed tachyons which were being observed had depended upon correlations between the oscilloscope and the electric fields around the cesium source, which the two men had varied. "I really don't expect to get anything out of this," Whyteborn said just before they began the new experiment. "It's definitely a long shot. I don't want to be like those chaps back in the thirties who were doing the nuclear bombardment work. For convenience they put their geiger counters on the same switch that turned off the beam of high energy particles they hit the samples with. If they hadn't, they would have found spontaneous radioactivity from the samples, after the beam was off. Missed a Nobel that way." "Made them look rather like fools," agreed Dowles. "Yes, and we don't want to end up in the same class." Whyteborn connected up the final wiring and they began monitoring. The oscilloscope trace danced and juggled, a random yellow line on a green background. The two men watched it in the leaden quiet of the laboratory. In a corner a roughing pump chugged laboriously and a liquid nitrogen bath that emersed the nuclear sample added an occasional snap as ice formed on its jacket. It was #:# PM. A T #:# the scope gave a sudden scattering of pulses. A complex waveform wavered across the scale and each man looked at the other. "Strange," said Dowles. "I don't -- wait. Look. It's pulsing at regular intervals. One, two, then nothing, four, then again nothing -- it's skipping some beats." "Not ordinary background, I'd say." "No. More like -- " "A code," Dowles finished. "Yes." It was #:#. "Take some of this down," Whyteborn said. "I do not see what effect could be modulating the tachyons we have coming into the laboratory." "Perhaps some process in the IF sun," Dowles said as he began to make notes. "A pulse, then a blank, another blank, and then pulse, pulse -- " "No," Whyteborn said, thinking aloud, "there is no such natural frequency related to the sun that I know of. Something else -- " He sat for a moment in silence. It was #:I #. "You remember," he said, "I mentioned earlier thatthere were paradoxes in the law of cause and effect implied by tachyons. Or so some think -- " His voice trailed off. Dowles went on with his notes. In a few moments he stopped. "It's quiet right now," he said. The wave form returned on the scope. Dowles sighed and began to copy once more. "By damn," Whyteborn said. "It's Morse. I remember it pretty well and this thing makes sense." "It does?" "Well, I think. Rather outre , perhaps -- " "What does it say?" The Professor handed him the Dowles blinked for a moment. "It's nonsense," he said. "Of course, yes," Whyteborn said, embarrassed. "I wonder how it -- " "Do this next one," Dowles said a little anxiously, and handed him the sheet. As Whyteborn was decoding it another message began to come in on the oscilloscope. Dowles copied. don't suppose this could be some sort of joke?" "I'm taking it down just as it comes off the 'scope," Dowles said sharply, "and I certainly would not have made up any such thing as that first one." "I suppose not," Whyteborn said. "It's eerie, though. How could anyone -- " "Here's the next," Dowles said. The Professor did this one more quickly, since the practice was stimulating his memory of Morse. It said: EN. "This is -- " "Wait, there's more," said Dowles, who was scribbling in front of the oscilloscope. The message continued: "Where's the rest of it?" "Something happened right then. The signal shifted a bit and a stronger one came on. I've got some of it here." "My word," Whyteborn said. "It's still coming in," Dowles said. "Can't you get one of the technicians from down the hall to do that? We must see what all this means." "Yes, right. Be back in a minute." Dowles fetched a PhD candidate from the next laboratory and set him to copying. T HE two men sat around the table at the end of the room and decoded a few more of the signals. "I am becoming more and more confused," Dowles said at last, after the PhD candidate had brought a fresh shelf of transcriptions. "What are these? Who is sending them?" "The form in itself is most curious," Whyteborn mused to himself, ignoring the other for the moenough, but some of the words are not English that I recognize. The grammar is off, too." "Not as bad as this," Dowles said and held up a long sheet he EN, and on in that manner for more than a page." "Here is one I think will interest you," Whyteborn said. "It beseeches me to kill you on the spot. what sort of person sent that one." "Yes," said Dowles slowly. "I wonder why so many refer to me?" "I've been trying to work that out. The first question is why we are getting anything at all." "Well, they're coming from somewhere -- " "More than that. Som ewhen. I think the theorists were right about tachyons implying the ability to send signals into the past. Not into my own past, of course -- I cannot send a telegram to myself last week, because that is on my world IF line. But I could send one to someone else." "Then someone is sending us messages ? From the future?" "Precisely. The theory I have read says anyone on Earth could not send a telegram back to us more than about a quarter of a second into the past. But perhaps in the future a way will be found around that." "Time machines?" "Time telegraphs, call them. It explains why we have never seen any time travelers, or gotten a message from the future." "No one ever built a receiver before," Dowles said slowly. "And now that we have -- " "We are getting it all. In the future they will know when the tachyonic receiver was turned on. Someone is trying to signal us." "But all these demands -- " Dowles slammed a fist down on the table and stood up. "Absurd." Whyteborn made a tent of his fingers and smiled into it, his favorite academic gesture. "Is it? This matter of a misdemeanor -- " "Uh," said Dowles. Whyteborn thought he looked like a man who had just swallowed an absinthe frappe. "Right, nothing to be ashamed of, really. What is more interesting is the question of why it was mentioned. It seems a minor point." There was a small silence. "You aren't going to let this influence Helen and me, are you?" "No, I don't -- wait! That must be it, surely. Those people in the future are trying to influence my judgment." "What?" Dowles hesitated and then pawed among the sheets of paper. He fished out a half dozen and held them up. "There are a lot here that refer to Helen. You think -- " "Look, man, this is an important moment in history, if we're right, no? What we do about the tachyon thing could have important implications. It could be, well, a crucial point." Dowles paced back and forth, fretting. "Crucial or no, I don't like them messing about in my affairs." "But they are only trying to, you see. Perhaps they guessed you were made up on Helen but that I could still stop your marriage if I wanted. These messages are their way of influencing the time line to their benefit." "Whose benefit?" "All those in the future. There must be -- " "There are an awful lot of them," Dowles said. "Why so many? And look at this one. Not even English, or anything else I It's gibberish." "Or some other code. But I see your point. There are more than one would expect." They both turned and looked at the PhD candidate, who was still copying intently from the oscilloscope. A tall stack of paper at his elbow was already covered with notes. "Too many for the future -- " Dowles said. "For one future," Whyteborn said suddenly. "I'm sure of it, Dowles, that is why we have so many. They will go right on coming in, too, because it is an infinitely divisible subset -- " "What is?" "The future! There must be an infinite number of possible ones but only one can actually happen, you see. But until I make some decision -- I suppose the one about you and Helen -- they all have equal chance of coming about." "The future?" Dowles said wonderingly. "The future has some kind of ghost existence?" "Yes, right, but only one of them will survive. They're all trying to influence us, to make their past come out right. Whatever I do will pick out one of the futures and destroy the rest." Dowles thought for a moment. "We can test this," he said at last, "if we keep track of the messages. There may be common threads among them that will tell us what they're after." "Perhaps," said Whyteborn, thinking. "But we'll need more people to tend the oscilloscope." Dowles looked back at the PhD candidate, who was visibly tiring. "I'll go and find some help." He left the laboratory quickly but Whyteborn was distracted and did not notice that he had gone. The Professor was mulling over the implications of what had happened. It would make a hell of an article for the Royal Society, he was sure. He picked up one of the first How could discovery of tachyons make the government cut research funds? Still, Whyteborn thought, it might be a good idea to hold their article back for a few days, just in case. Then he found another paper, Whyteborn furrowed his brow. Which was right? tory again and stopped by the PhD candidate to say something. In a moment the student got up and left, closing the door after him. "I don't believe we should publish any of this." Whyteborn looked up. He had not noticed Dowles' return and the voice took him by surprise. It had sounded curiously high pitched. "Why? Because of the messages?" Whyteborn said. "Yes. There's something in this we don't understand and I think we should be cautious." Whyteborn stared at Dowles. The man's voice was oddly shrill, quite unlike his usual resonant baritone. And what was more -- As he watched Dowles' face, it flickered ever so slightly. Whyteborn felt a sudden chill down his scalp. The outlines of Dowles' body wavered, as a distant image would on a hot summer day. And now that he noticed, the figure was not precisely like Dowles: the hair was thinner and the jawline had gone a little soft, giving the impression of an older man. "What's happened?" Whyteborn said. "Happened?" the thin voice said. "Why -- " "Oh." The man seemed chestfallen. "Well, we didn't think it would work on -- " "You're right, he is an impostor," said another voice. Whyteborn turned to look behind him. Another Dowles was walking toward him from a corner of the laboratory, scowling. "An impostor?" "Yes," the new man said, "I can't imagine why. Some sort of practical joke, I would imagine. Come on now, get out," he said, "Out? Why? So you can have a shot at him?" "I don't know who you are," said the second Dowles, "but I fail to see -- " "That stuff won't wash," said the other. "Look," he said, turning to Whyteborn, "he's going to try and persuade you to do something wrong. Don't listen to him." "Wait a moment," Whyteborn said. He got up and walked around the table. Dowles ## backed away but not quickly enough. Whyteborn reached out a hand toward the man. It went through. There was a prickling of warmth around Whyteborn's wrist where it entered the second Dowles' body, but nothing else out of the ordinary. His hand opened and closed on air. "What -- " was all Whyteborn could stammer. Dowles #I said, "Well, he's found out now. If you hadn't been so pushy and come barging in I might have been able to cover." "Cover? You? That facsimile of yours is wretched," said Dowles ##. "Your eyebrows are too high and the posture is wrong and your voice is out of synchronization (Please turn to page #) IF m m wi I I a M w ?I l I  H V y '   Jungle sector of the Sentient planet? Many Terrans have. After the War, there were all sorts of package tours at reasonable rates and the sector was still wild enough to offer some exotic sightseeing. The giant plants are eyecatching purples, reds and oranges. The fauna are something, too. Particularly the Quintopods. I know a lot about the Quintopods. Back on Terra, is a medical monograph I wrote on their anatomy and neurophysiology. As the name implies, they have five appendages, all symmetrically arranged around a disc-shaped body. The malformed head holds a tangled knot of cerebellar nerves, two compound eyes and a slash for a mouth. I've argued that the head is actually a specialized sixth limb, but none of the other so-called authorities agree with me. The Quinto body is flexible, muscular and capable of amazing adaptations. They are great builders and the silicon towers of the jungle sector are highlighted in the tourist guides. They are reasonably intelligent, not up to the Sentients or even to Terrans, but well beyond the anthropoids. They communicate by opening that scar of a mouth and thrusting out a slender vibrating appendage. The sounds are strange and unlike any humanoid speech I've ever heard. Some Terrans find these sounds exotic, dissonant, but I've always found them hauntingly musical. I still pride myself on my ability to interpret these vibrations, a job I worked at for many long and painful years. There aren't too many around who can understand the Quintopods. They are proud creatures, conscious of their roles as males and females. The two sexes do not mingle socially except for procreative purposes. It is only the aged or infirm male who finds himself working alongside the women at the menial tasks. For many years the dominant Sentient culture nurtured the Quintopod communities to preserve one of the cherished subspecies of the planet. came in with the occupying Terran forces as medical officer in the Jungle sector. The war had been bloody but short. Some misdirected missiles had wiped out eighty percent of the Quintopods, so special measures were taken to assist the survivors. Our troops were bored stiff and there was little to divert them, considering the prudish attitudes of the Sentients toward prostitution. But a couple of entrepreneurs from the Terran States were licensed to come into the sector and they stirred things up. One of them, an aggressive fellow named Matt Handman, was a showman and an active operator. He set up a gambling and sex palace under Occupation license. He was also the first one to see what great potential the Quintopods had in the ancient sport of boxing. Boxing was still an active sport back on Terra and very popular. And the sight of a Quintopod waving three boxing gloves was enough to excite any observer. Our troops loved it. The Quintopods were fine athletes and were readily trained to the sport. The high prestige of the gladiator was an irresistible inducement to them. I was against allowing them to fight. I've always considered the sport an abomination and I knew that, in spite of their tough skins, a tear in the cerebellar mantle xf the Quintps could mean instant death. Within a year's time a dozen Quintos had fought themselves to top boxing ratings. The Sentients were angry and presented a series of diplomatic protests decrying the "barbarization" of the Quintos. These notes were politely accepted, pushed slowly through our Army bureaucracy and allowed to fade from sight. Huge crowds of Terran soldiers came to every bout, wagering hundreds of thousands of credits. I never went, although my baser instincts sometimes nagged at me. But I had too much affection for the Quintos and I didn't want to risk seeing a fatality. Still, I would have liked to see Pinwheel in action. Pinwheel was champion of the Quintopods. I was told that he was a natural showman and the darling of our troops. Instead of the usual three boxing gloves he wore five, balancing himself precariously on two of the eight-ounce gloves. Although he was a very skillful boxer, he would sometimes forget finesse and slug fiercely, ready to take three or four blows just to get in one powerful hook. And the coup de grace would come in a rolling frenzy of leather as he spun about in an unstoppable blur of rotary motion. Matt Handman managed Pinwheel and I detested him for that, too. He was making a fortune in credits out of the brutal Quinto fights and to me he was the lowest form of parasite. Periodically I submitted written protests to the commanding general. But I was ignored and there was nothing else I could do. Nothing, that is, until the first Quinto fatality took place. The Quinto hadn't been badly beaten. He suffered a cerebellar tear after a seemingly light jab to the head and he died in the ring. It was my chance to intervene and I grabbed it. I pressured the Occupation Command into letting me take ultrasonograms of each fighter's brain. There was a good deal of stalling and some buckpassing but I was finally given permission to proceed. no IF The Quintos showed up for the physical reluctantly since their managers were openly hostile to my plan. But when I threatened to revoke the licenses of delinquents, they came right in. Two of the Quintos were clearly victims of a slight mantle tear and their licenses were immediately revoked Everyone else seemed all right except for one doubtful ultrasonogram. Pinwheel was the question mark, although I was convinced by studying his walking motions that there were subtle indications of neurological damage. I called in his manager, Matt Handman, and told him of my findings. "I don't believe you," he said vehemently. "Pinwheel has never looked better in his bouts. I know that you hate me and I think you'd do anything to put me out of business." "I might," I admitted. "But I'm trying to be objective about Pinwheel's health. I think he's in grave danger of being killed. I haven't enough medical proof formally to revoke his license, so I'm asking you to get him to retire." Handman stared at me as though I were insane and then, his arm around Pinwheel, he escorted the Quinto out of my office. I turned to Seva Tcana, Sentient medical observer who was permitted an occasional visit to my office by sufferance of the Terran High Command. Like most Sentients, he was formally correct but at the same time very hard to know. "Handman is a toad," I said angrily. "He'd kill his own mother for a thousand credits." "He might," said Seva. "Many Terrans are money-hungry animals." He didn't smile but I assumed he was joking. "To him," I said, "a fighter is a prize steer that you sell to the butcher." Seva seemed disturbed by my remarks. "You make me uncomfortable," he said finally. "I don't like to hear you disparage one of your own people." I understood his reaction. The Army Guide to the Sentient planet had stressed their fierce intra-cultural loyalties. "I'm sorry," I said. But I really wasn't. Sentients, spontaneously it seemed. Translated into Terran and forgetting the poetic nuances, the lines ran roughly as follows: Oh the Terrans are a strange but verile race, In the War they swept along with martial pace. And in peace they love a fight See them gather every night Just to see the Quintos battered in the face. The chorus, to a very catchy tune, went: Here s to Terran heroes, Here's to all of those. Who quite fearlessly Watch others smashed by blows. This song spread like wildfire through the Sentient planet and whenever a Terran soldier appeared in even the tiniest hamlet someone was certain to hum the chorus. General Hinsley, head of the Occupation Command and hero of the War, was furious. A staff meeting was called at Command HQ at which I was ordered to be present. Matt Handman was there, too. The general sat at the head of a long, ornately carved conference table, knitting his brows, before he spoke. "I'm fond of boxing. It's a manly sport and it builds the body and mind. But maybe using Quintos is wrong. It probably weakens the moral fiber of our boys to watch these freaks dance around in a ring. The doctor here keeps sending me medical reports that say they'll kill each other and that could provoke the Sentients even more." He shuffled the papers on his desk and turned to look directly at me. His disgust was apparent, although he tried to conceal it. I nodded my agreement. Then he turned to Handman. I wondered what sort of rebuttal the promoter could offer and I soon found out. He spoke quickly but he seemed to have prepared his arguments very carefully. "I agree with the general," he began. "I've been involved in boxing for many years back on Terra and there just is no greater sport. Two men go out into that ring alone and it's one man's skill and guts against another's. In an era when most of everything is done by some kind of machine there's something inspiring to see what men alone can do with their own brains and muscle." The general seemed rapt. "And," continued Handman, "those people who have criticized my Quinto fights have a point. There may be something primitive about seeing two Quintos box. But there's more. They're graceful, they're skillful and nobody really gets hurt. And it does wonders for the morale of our boys. These guys are tremendous distances from home, they're lonely, they're bored. They risked their lives for Terra. Don't we owe them a little entertainment?" I scowled and looked at my fingers. "The doctor says the Quintos might get killed. So far there's only been one death and that's controversial. I've seen a medical report that says the Quinto died of a viral infection. But I'm not a doctor. Maybe we do need stricter IF exams before each fight. That's okay with me. But let's not take it out on our boys. And don't forget that a lot of tax money comes from the gate receipts -- they help finance Occupation expenses." The general nodded. "But what about that song?" he said. "Let's talk about that song," said Handman. "I'm no military man. I trust the general here in whatever he wants to do. As an ordinary civilian I resent that song. I think the Sentients are trying to demean our manhood. But we can't cut and run. I want to propose a way that will show them what kind of people we are. I'm prepared to bring in Sam Porter, the heavyweight champion of Terra, to fight the Quintopod champ, Pinwheel; Let's show the kind of stuff we're made of. Once and for all, we'll stop those remarks about how we just watch and can't do. In conclusion, I'm prepared to donate half of the receipts from this bout to the Occupation Recreational Fund." He sat down abruptly. The general clearly seemed impressed by Handman's arguments. He adjourned the meeting without coming to an immediate decision -- but the following week he formally announced the match between Sam Porter and Pin wheel. It caused great excitement among our troops and the betting rose to fever pitch. ous training program in preparation for the Championship bout. Although I had never seen him fight, I decided to exercise my right as medical officer and visit his camp. A regulation ring was set up in three cleared jungle acres with stands that seated perhaps fifty to one hundred spectators. I took a seat in one of the last rows and waited for the day's exhibition to begin. Pinwheel came out wearing a protective headgear, but when he saw me in the back row he turned to Matt Handman and pointed. Handman smiled and very deliberately removed Pinwheel's headgear and tossed it to one side. I pretended to be unmoved at this provocation but inside I was boiling. The opening round of the exhibition took place in almost total silence. It had a bizarre kind of fascination for me in spite of my revulsion at the barbaric display. Pinwheel was truly a master of the art and he had changed his tactics just to show me, I suppose. Instead of taking three blows to one as I had been told he usually did, he wove his head about, slipping all of the three-gloved blows that shot toward his head, parrying the others with a kind of easy disdain. All through the round he threw but an occasional glove as though content simply to feel out his sparring partner. I rubbed my chin in wonder. Pinwheel's moves were certainly not those of a Quinto with damaged brain structure. The round ended and after a short rest the exhibition resumed. Now he opened up with the famous Pinwheel spin, and a blurred sequence of heavy blows rained on his partner, staggering him. Just as he fell to the canvas, he threw a wild hook that caught Pinwheel in midflight, squarely on the head. He went down as though poleaxed but immediately pulled himself shakily erect. Handman quickly called time. I was out of my seat instantly and down to the ring to examine both Quintos. Pinwheel was walking about to show hpw fine he felt but I insisted on having him carried to his dressing room where I went through a rudimentary neurological examination. The evidence was clear. "The mantle is torn," I said tersely. Matt Handman turned white through his Sector tan and he said nothing. I turned to examine Pinwheel's opponent and was conscious of Matt Handman, still standing at my side, staring at me. "Bring Pinwheel to my office tomorrow," I said. "I want to give him a more thorough workup." T HE second examination confirmed what I had suspected. The beginnings of mantle tear had taken place and literally any kind of blow or jar might kill Pinwheel. I quietly impressed this fact on Matt Handman but his face was impassive and he showed no emotional response. Still, I thought I had frightened him until the following day when I received a letter typed on Clerk of the Sector form, requesting a formal hearing on my decision to revoke Pinwheel's license. At Handman's request the hearing was kept private. I also agreed to allow Pinwheel to present his own appeal, although I couldn't see what difference it could make in my decision. Nevertheless, although I could interpret Quinto speech with great fluency, I delayed the proceedings by calling for an official army interpreter. The Quinto, Pinwheel, came forward and stood quietly before my desk. His body was beautifully formed and without a single mark other than a freshly healed cut across his head. To the casual observer he seemed to be in perfect condition. When the interpreter took his place at the Quinto's side, Pinwheel began. His language was simple and as nearly as I can remember, he said: I wish to be permitted to fight. I to face it. I have worked hard to master my craft as boxer. I am respected by my people for my strength and skill. Your soldiers admire me, too, and cheer my victories. If you turn me away IF you will take away my strength , my self-respect. Perhaps I am in danger of dying from the slightest blow.  will risk it. But if you send me back to the women you will make me something less than a dead man. He stepped back and waited for my answer. For the moment I had none. My assurance had evaporated at his words and the decision which had seemed so obvious was now uncertain. Was I invading a private right, the right to choose one's own way to die? But if that right involved the choice ofsuicide, by Terran standards it was illegal, no matter what its meaning in the Quinto culture. If Pinwheel were to die in the ring it would be because  had permitted it to happen. I rose to my feet. "The appeal is rejected," I said. "As medical officer of this Sector, I hereby reaffirm my decision to revoke the boxing license of the Quintopod known as Pinwheel. Of course you can appeal to the commanding general." It was well known that General Hinsley, as a matter of policy, had never overruled lower command decisions of a minor nature. Pinwheel seemed stunned. He swayed, almost stumbled, uncertain of what to do or where to go. Matt Handman came quickly to his side and led him out of my office. I gathered up all the papers concerning the case and placed them into a confidential inter-office envelope. The matter was now in General Hinsley's hands. appeal, an unusual and precedent-breaking step. I found myself alone with the general and Matt Handman. We sat silently for many minutes while the general went through the record, page by page. Finally he closed the folder, removed his metal-rimmed glasses and addressed himself to me. "You're absolutely certain of the tear?" "Absolutely." The general sighed. "There are many reasons why this bout should be held. But most important to me is the one with political and psychological overtones. The Sentient population is becoming restive under the Occupation. So far there has been no armed outbreak, merely a few incidents in isolated places. Then there's that song. A humiliation of the Terran forces might spark off active resistance. For that reason, and others, I would like to see this bout held." "I can't sanction it," I said. The general didn't seem to hear me. "Suppose there is a mantle tear," he said. "It might offer certain advantages to us. Although it's inconceivable that Sam Porter could lose, insurance is always welcome. And think what an enormous propaganda risk we would be taking if by some freak of chance Sam Porter lost to the Quinto?" For some time there had been latrine gossip concerning the general's political ambitions. It was said that he wanted to run for the Secretaryship of the Solar Directorate, Terra's highest office. I could see that he wanted to take no chances of anything marring his long-range plans. "I'm sorry, sir," I said. "As a medical man I can't in true conscience go along with you. Why not substitute another Quinto for Pinwheel?" Matt Handman shook his head. "We can't do that," he said. "No other Quinto is in his class. They'd accuse us of fixing the result by using an inferior Quinto." "They might say that anyway," I said. "Word may have gotten out about Pinwheel's suspension." "Mr. Handman assures me that no one has been told by him or Pinwheel," said the general. "And your hearing was private and held under military security procedure. I agree with Handman. We've got to use Pinwheel." I sat there in turmoil. My medical oath had been very meaningful to me and still was. I was reluctant to break it but I might bend it a little. "Very well," I said bitterly. "I'll rescind my ban. Pinwheel may fight Porter." The general leaned toward me. "That's not enough," he said softly. "I want you to issue a medical statement certifying that Pinwheel is in perfect fighting trim. If you refuse -- I will have the statement drawn up and issued over your name. If you make me do that I'll not only break you but I'll see that your medical license is revoked." I tried to speak but my voice had suddenly gone hoarse and low. I struggled with my vocal chords and the words finally emerged. "I'll do it," I said. Seva Tcana was waiting to see me. "There are whispers about that Pinwheel has been hurt," he said. "Are they true?" "I thought so on my first examination," I said. "But it was only an artifact of the ultrasonographic test. I've just been to see General Hinsley and informed him of my findings. I plan to issue a medical statement giving Pinwheel a clear bill of health." "I see," said Seva. "Do you believe me?" I said abruptly. He shrugged. "Does it matter?" I was tired, angry, frustrated and I lost a rather tenuous grip on my self-control. "It could matter," I said sharply. "If Pinwheel were really inIF jured, it would be in the interest of your people if he never made it to the ring. If he has to die, at least it ought to be for a worthwhile cause." I caught myself. "That's all a theoretical supposition," I said. Seva rose te his feet. "I look forward to your new medical statement," he said. He bowed and left. of the night writing and rewriting my medical report until it seemed to reach just the proper language and plausibility. I left it on my secretary's desk to be typed and printed up. I slept all morning and afternoon. When I awoke I learned of Pinwheel's sudden and tragic death. The reports were conflicting. The first talked about an accidental slip and fall while doing roadwork. The second, with sinister overtones, hinted at an unknown Sentient striking the Quinto a blow on the head. No witnesses were to be found, although the Terran command was launching an investigation. I stared at my report, neatly typed, the sentences and paragraphs set in easy-to-read military form. It was all ridiculous now. I would be the laughing stock of the Sentient community if it were issued. As for the general, he would have no recourse but to suspend all bouts from now on. The championship bout with Porter had become a vanished dream. As I sat there, musing, Seva Tcana came in to my office. I put down my report and looked at him but he returned my gaze without blinking. "Was Pinwheel's death an accident?" I asked. "Do you really expect me to answer that?" he said. No, I thought. No matter how strongly a Sentient feels about a particular issue, he would never help an outside culture against his own people the way I did last night... I felt a slight tightening in my stomach and the roof of my mouth had suddenly gone dry. I was God knows how many millions of miles away from home and friends and suddenly, completely alone. I thought for many long moments before I framed a reply to Seva. He listened to my halting remarks but didn't seem to care what they were.  dex Of The Planets (Distributed free to public schools and other accredited institutions.) Position in Solar System: Jupiter is the fifth planet from the sun. planet is in that area of the system popularly referred to as "deep space." Jupiter is named after the chief god in Roman mythology and is the largest member of the sun's family. Physical Characteristics: Jupiter is # miles in diameter. It revolves around the sun once every # (Earth) years. Approximately # times the size of Earth, Jupiter's gravitational pull is # Vi times that of our own planet (suggested classroom exercise for elementary grades: each child should weigh himself on the Health Office scales and then compute how much he she would weigh on the planet Jupiter). Jupiter has twelve moons. Four of them (Europa, Ganymede, Callisto, Io) are very large, almost the size of Earth. Jupiter's atmosphere is believed to extend upward a thousand miles or more from the surface of the planet, with some variance at the poles. The atmosphere is composed of large quantities of methane, ammonia (crystals), some hydrogen and lesser amounts of other gases. It is believed that the density of the atmosphere near' the surface of the planet approaches that of a liquid. This atmosphere would not support any life form that we know of. Jupiter has nine temperature zones. Seen through a telescope, these zones appear as cloud belts of vaguely differentiated color bands. These cloud belts move across the surface of the planet at different rates of speed. This movement may be due to electron ionization within the atmosphere of the planet. A striking feature of this planet is the dark red area of gas that moves across the surface at extremely high rates of speed. This "spot" (large as the Earth) is believed to be a dense group of gases moving beneath the surface of the outer atmosphere. Jupiter does not conform to expected patterns of planetary radio wave emanations. This phenomenon is, as yet, unexplained. Unmanned Space Probes: The results of twenty-two unmanned space probes have all been negative. Manned Space Probes: The Odyssey was launched from Moon Base # in #. Radio contact was lost soon after the ship went into Jupiter orbit. The seven crewmen are presumed dead. Copyright # , National Aeronautics and Space Administration. IF Bentzel, Eric F. -- Logistics Supervisor. Communications Coordinator. Chiang, Kyoto -- Assistant Engineer. Log Recorder. Oliver, Roger T. -- Communications. (Alternate) Logistics Supervisor. Raines, Melvin S. -- Medical, Psychiatric Team Coordinator. Propulsion Systems. Rhodes, James T. -- Geologist and Mapmaker. Communications (Assistant). Richter, Frederick M. -- Propul sion Systems. Takamoto, Takata. -- Chief Engineer. Medical Assistant. Commanding Officer: Raines, Melvin S. Assistant Commanding Officer: Bentzel, Eric F. First Alternate: Charalding, Thomas H. Second Alternate: Perry, John E. Third Alternate: McCarthy, John M. Mission Book Insert # (Supplemental). Excerpts from a briefing given by Dr. Roger LaTrane to flight and support personnel of Odyssey Two. Subject: Radio wave patterns of the planet Jupiter. There is no need for me to emphasize to you the importance of this mission, our second attempt to send men into deep space. The failure of Odyssey One is past history and I'm sure you are wondering why we choose to launch a second mission when we know virtually nothing about the disappearance of the first. I think the reason will become clear to you as my talk progresses. In the meantime, I would like to apologize on behalf of the directors for not making our intentions known at an earlier date. Quite frankly, there was a good deal of indecision. Also, there were certain public relations factors which had to be taken into account. As far as our knowledge is concerned, Jupiter is the "black sheep" of the solar system. We know scarcely more about the planet today than we did a hundred and fifty years ago. It was this dearth of information that originally prompted us to launch Odyssey One. At that time we had reason to assume that the difficulties of the longer flight could be computed by the K factor and anticipated. We were wrong and we paid for our mistake with the lives of seven men. After the failure of that mission the decision was made that we would not make another attempt to reach Jupiter until we had somehow gained more information about surface and atmospheric conditions that might have caused the failure of the first mission. Unfortunately that information has not been forthcoming. Odyssey Two bears the same burden of risk as Odyssey One, with the possible exceptions of minute improvements in the exploration vehicles and the knowledge that unknown danger does most definitely exist. Every planet, including the Earth, emits a distinct pattern of radio waves. Each pattern is unique and serves to identify a planet, much in the same way as a fingerprint will identify a man. The pattern of these waves is dependent upon the body's mass, density, composition, atmospheric conditions, surface materials and so on. The frequency distributions of these materials are constant and reliable, enabling us to determine the physical characteristics of celestial bodies by measuring the quality of the radio waves emitted from them. Jupiter is the one planet in our system that does not conform, at least in theory. Its pattern of radio waves is not what visual observation and spectrography tell us it should be. A prime objective of Odyssey One was to discover the cause of this discrepancy. Within the past year the pattern of Jupiter's signals has changed dramatically. Our scientists have observed the waves doubling in intensity. It is an erratic occurseconds at a time. However, there is no explanation for this phenomenon. Nothing like it has ever been observed, except in the obvious case of a super nova. Naturally, we have no way of knowing whether this new phenomenon has any connection with the disappearance of Odyssey One. Quite frankly, we doubt 'it. There seems no way the crew could have survived this long. Certainly, not anywhere near the planet's surface. Also, it is inconceivable that Odyssey One could have caused the effect observed here on Earth. We have reached and colonized Mars, Venus and the twilight zone of Mercury. Development of those planets will consume the energies of our scientists for decades. In other words, our program of manned space exploration has ground to a standstill. There is the ever-present danger of stagnation. We have always believed that we have the skills and technology to penetrate deep space. We must do so if we hope someday to reach the stars. A new mystery may be the key to an old one. In any case, we have decided to try one more time. In a very real sense, the dreams and aspirations of all men are riding with you. God speed. I T HE pain clung to him, embracing him in its sweaty arms IF throughout the long journey from nothing to now. The transition from a state of coma to consciousness was a universe of tortured nerve ends and quivering muscles. Major Eric Bentzel blinked in the darkness and tested his stiff muscles against the leather straps and cushions that held him. Bits and pieces of memory floated into the vacuum in his mind to drift like wreckage in a tidal pool. Then awareness came, making him whole once again. Eric loosened the restraining straps and stretched his arms and legs, allowing himself a long, satisfied grunt of pleasure. He felt a sudden kinship with the men of Odyssey One; Claude Philmore, his counterpart on that first mission, had undoubtedly gotten this far and experienced these same sensations. Satisfied that his circulation had returned to normal, Eric sat up and tested his gravity shoes against the porous strips lining the floor of the ship. He pushed the lightcontrol lever above his head and his cubicle was bathed in the soft yellow glow of Safe Psyche illumination. Finally he detached from his body the needles and plastic tubes that had fed him through the long night and stood up. He waited a few moihents for his body to adjust to an upright stance, then pressed another lever and stepped out of his cubicle into what was the main body of the ship. He was the first to undergo transition and was quite alone in the huge expanse of gleaming metal. The opening of his cubicle door had activated the interior lighting of the ship. At the far end of the chamber a multi-colored panel glittered in a bath of blue light. The panel housed the recording instruments and manual controls, the computers and other apparatus which had monitored the ship and crew for the past two years and which would have to be reset for the return journey to the Earth. On each side of the panel was a large green disc, the metal shielding for the quartz-alloy portal telescopes. When exposed, each optical device afforded the viewer a one hundred and eighty degree panorama of space outside the ship. The rest of the huge chamber was bare. The remainder of the instruments were buried beneath the floor, ready to whir upwards at the touch of appropriate levers. The ship was designed to provide the maximum amount of work and living space. A touch of his hand exposed the portal telescopes and Eric found himself staring into the black, star-spotted maw of the void; hypnotic, beautiful and ever so deadly. A mass of space matter drifted a few hundred miles avay, an island in an ocean of ink. He closed the portals and brought up the command table. He had no way of knowing how long before the others would join him. In the meantime he could do little but begin the laborious process of checking and rechecking the ship's systems. A cursory examination of the time-lapse tapes indicated to him that the ship would reach destination within a week. She would automatically inject herself into orbit around Jupiter and then wait with the patience of a machine for her human cargo to awake from its slumber and, with that grand presumptuousness that is the human spirit, resume command of her atomic soul. Even now the object of their voyage would be clearly visible in the portal telescopes, should he set them at the proper viewing angle. But he would wait; the first sight of Jupiter belonged to all of them together. Together they would gaze upon the face of a killer planet that had destroyed all communication and then proceeded to swallow up an entire ship as well as a crew trained to meet any kind of conceivable emergency. Conceivable emergency? He wondered what answers to what questions Philmore had known before he died. Had the assistant commander of Odyssey One seen the force that killed him? Had he been able to anticipate it even for an instant? If not, what possible chance did the men of Odyssey Two have of escaping the same fate? Eric could think of no useful purpose served by dwelling on the fate of the first mission. He returned to the task of electronically scanning the remainder of the computer tapes. He worked slowly, knowing the importance of finding tasks to fill the dangerous, yawning pockets of time. Frequently he would open his eyes to discover that he had been sleeping. T HE men stood and stared in silence. Jupiter appeared as a monstrous, suppurating wound, erupting from the black enamel hide of the universe. The white, rock-encrusted spheres that were Jupiter's moons were maggots, scurrying about the gaseous behemoth, waiting to enter the swirling red-orange pus of the wound. Raines was the first to turn away. He moved to the command table, studied the instruments. "Major Bentzel," Raines said, "would you check the transmission tapes again, please?" Eric moved quickly to the computer console and, for the fifth time since the ship had gone into orbit, punched out the communications index. His fingers moved with a muscular memory of their own. He could feel the cold, almond eyes of Kyoto Chiang boring into his back. There was a meIF tallic taste in his mouth that he would have characterized, before his psychiatric realignment, as fear. "Negative," Eric said quietly. "Our signal is still being transmitted but there is no indication that it is being received. We aren't receiving anything at all. The computer gives no indication of malfunction." Raines nodded, absently tugging at his ear. The commander was a quiet man, almost to the point of shyness. But he showed no sign of indecision or even anxiety. "Lieutenant?" "I've tried voice contact," Jim Rhodes announced. "The results were negative. I have no explanation. We get nothing, not even static." "So," Raines announced, scratching his shoulder, "it seems that we're on our own. Any suggestions?" The faint clicking of the elapsedtime monitor was the only sound in the room. Eric's gaze swept the dials of the console, searching for some clue to the breakdown in communications between the ship and Earth. It was a half-hearted effort, more habit than any belief that the answer lay in the tens of thousands of miles of wiring within the computer and transmission systems. The answer lay somewhere on the planet beneath them. The dials checked, Eric let his mind wander once again to the disembarkation procedures. Unless Raines decided differently standard procedures would be employed -- the same as Odyssey One had used. Standard procedure dictated that he, as second in command, would remain on board the ship, monitoring communications and assuring that there would be at least one man to guide the ship home to Earth should some unforeseen disaster befall the rest. The six others would disembark in two teams, three men to a team, utilizing the ion-propelled Surface Excursion Vehicles, or 'scooters.' One of the vehicles would descend to the surface and, if preliminary instrument readings were favorable, land. The second vehicle would monitor the first for up to three hours before landing. Then, if there were no indication of danger, a site would be selected and the main ship would come down on the planet's surface, providing a base of operations for the extended period of exploration that would follow. "Major Bentzel, how do you view our situation?" "So far," Eric said slowly, weighing each word, "we've done everything in emulation of Odyssey One. They lost contact and we've lost contact. In a sense we're flying blind. We have no explanation for the breakdown. Now, we've been around the planet six times and have seen no sign of wreckage." "In eighteen years," Chiang said. "Odyssey One or its pieces would have fallen out of orbit." "Why couldn't the men still be alive down on the surface?" asked Fred Richter, the youngest member of the crew. Raines pointed to the orange blur just coming into sight in the right hand portal. Richter fell silent. Eric cleared his throat and the other men turned their attention back to him. "In any event," he continued, "Odyssey One was destroyed. It would seem to me that we had better initiate alternate procedures." "I've done some preliminary calculations," Raines said. "It would seem to me feasible to set up a moon base -- say, on Io, since it's closest to our position -- and set up an observatory. I am in absolute agreement with Major Bentzel. We cannot attempt to reach the planet's surface until we discover why we can't communicate with Earth. We can't simply turn around and go back. Therefore, using a moon base as an intermediate landing station would appear to be the only answer. To keep the ship in a stable orbit requires too much power. Any comments?" There were none. Eric could feel an atmosphere of excitement and anticipation building in the ship, clinging to the men like static electricity. Raines' tone had become harder, and his words were clipped. "Tack, you take Richter and Rhodes. Run an instrument check on Io. See if there is a place we can land this thing." Colonel Takata Takamoto saluted. He motioned to Richter and Rhodes who followed him into the suiting room. Eric did some rapid figuring in his head and calculated that at top speed, the scouting mission would take just under six hours. He wished he were going. The walls of the ship seemed to be diminishing, closing in on him. Soon he would be the only one left, trapped inside the metal womb. Eric shook his head and tried to concentrate on Raines' voice. With a little luck, he'd have ground beneath his feet in two or three days. The bright red scooter containing Takamoto, Richter and Rhodes glided past the portal. The signal light on the computer console lit and Eric quickly pressed the lever, returning the signal. Raines exchanged a series of quips with Takamoto and then signed off. They had at least established voice communication with the scooter. "I'm going to take the blue scooter down to the outer fringes of the atmosphere for a test probe," Raines said. "I want some samples of that atmosphere. That will save us a lot of time once we get set up on Io." "Better take us along," Oliver IF said, indicating himself and Kyoto Chiang. "You won't be able to operate all of the collecting devices and still run the scooter. It'll be easier and safer if the scooter's fully manned." "All right," Raines said. "Let's go" Eric followed the three men into the suiting room, helped them into their suits, went with them down to the vehicle bay. The blue scooter was painstakingly checked out before Raines, Chiang and Oliver assumed their positions in the tiny craft. Eric went down the line of men, gripping each hand in turn. Finally he stepped into an observation chamber. He watched as the canopy of the craft slid into place. Raines' right hand moved to the control panel of the craft and the ship's huge bay doors opened long enough to allow the blue scooter to pass out between them. Then they closed. The assault on Jupiter was under way. straining for some sound in the impersonal silence around him. Nothing. The ship was all right. Eric glanced at his watch. Five and a half hours had elapsed since the red and blue scooters had disembarked on their missions. They had missed four communications checks. Or he had missed them. He had had a headache and had decided to rest in his cubicle. He'd fallen asleep. Still, the siren attachment was designed to sound throughout the entire ship if a signal came through. But that had to be activated. Had he set it before lying down? He sprang off the couch and hurried out of the cubicle over to the communications control panel. His gaze darted to the siren switch. It was set. He stared at the dials for a moment, then hurriedly set them to Raines' frequency. "Control calling Bluebird. Commander, this is Major Bentzel. Can you hear me? Control calling Bluebird. Come in, Bluebird." No answer came. Eric left Raines' frequency open and cut in the backup system. "Control calling Redbird! Tack, can you hear me? Control calling Redbird. Acknowledge at once." His efforts were rewarded by a dead silence. He struggled against little ripples of panic that were welling up inside him. One more scooter was left in the bay and he knew he would use it if the timecushion elapsed. He would have to. He knew he could not simply pilot the ship home, leaving the others to die, even if procedure dictated that he do so. Psychiatric Realignment could only do so much for a man's peace of mind. Then the ship was filled with the shriek of the siren tearing through the terrible silence that had preceded it. Eric reached out and shut off the switch that had been turned up to full volume. The pain in his ears was delightful. "Control here. Tack, where the hell are you?" "Eric, we're coming in." Takamoto's voice was strained, brittle with tension. "Look through your left portal. Tell me if you can see us." Eric looked. The red scooter was just coming into sight, glittering in the strange, reflected glow of the planet. "I can see you," Eric said. "Tack, what's the matter?" "No time now. I'll tell you when we get to the ship." Eric monitored the docking of the red scooter. In a few moments the three crewmen entered the main chatnber. They had removed only their helmets. Tack went directly to the communications panel. He quickly scanned the computer tapes. "Eric, did you receive any signals prior to ours?" "No," Eric said impatiently. He was anxious to learn what had happened. "Only the last one. Just before that I tried to contact you but couldn't get any signal at all. There's no word from Raines -- he took the blue scooter." He hesitated a moment, trying to read the expression on the crewman's face. "What happened?" "I don't know," Tack said slowly. "We scouted Io, found a plain and went down. Then we tried to contact you and couldn't get through." "We thought we'd lost the ship," Rhodes said quietly. Tack asked, "Where is Raines?" "He and the others went down to collect samples of the atmosphere." Eric felt a stab of guilt, as if he were responsible for what now seemed to have been an exceedingly foolish decision. "They were just going into the outer perimeter." Tack was shaking his head. "But you picked up our last signal." "Yes." "I could tell by our own instruments that we were getting through. But we were already in visual contact. It looks as though our radio equipment is no better than our eyesight. We might as well be using smoke signals. There must be something about the atmosphere. Ionization?" Eric shrugged. He was grappling with the problem of the blue scooter. At least four of the crew were safe now. He must decide whether or not to leave the other three. If he did, it would be decades before the attempt would be made again, if ever. The responsibility bore down on him, threatening to crush him with its weight. "I doubt it," Eric said softly. "Our instruments would have picked up excess ionization. EveryIF thing checks out perfectly, except our communications. Damn it. There's just no explanation." "You're in command now. Raines is out there some place. You have to make a decision," Takamoto said. Eric waited until he was reasonably certain that his voice would not tremble. "I won't send you to your deaths. It would make no sense." "It doesn't make any sense to give up at this point, either. It takes only one man to bring this ship back. One or four, it makes no difference; if we fail, there won't be another mission for a hundred years. You know that." "I know that the waste of life has no place in the exploration of space." "But you may be wasting the others' lives," Tack said, his voice still very calm. "You don't know that Raines and the others are dead. They could be down there right now, drifting around in a crippled ship, waiting for someone to come and get them. If we left now we'd be sentencing them to death. We can't live with that for the rest of our lives." "I'm the only one who has to live with anything. It's my decision. I will not send you down there." Tack drew himself up to his full height, snapped to attention. His eyes locked with Eric's. "Sir," Tack said, "I wish to volunteer to search for Commander Raines." Richter and Rhodes stepped forward and stood at attention on either side of Takamoto. The rigidity of their bodies and the hard cast of their eyes formed an unbreachable wall between them and the new commander. Eric would have given anything to be able to step to the other side of the barrier. "I'll give you four hours," Eric said at last. "No more. At the end of four hours I blast out of orbit." "Not to do so would be a dereliction of duty, sir," Takamoto said, allowing the smile in his eyes to spread to his mouth. "We completely understand." "I can only give you their last coordinates before they entered the atmosphere." "That should be sufficient, sir. We can track with the radar." "We will maintain constant voice communication." "Yes, sir. May we leave now?" "Four hours." "Four hours." Eric swallowed hard. "For God's sake, Tack, be careful." In a few minutes they were gone. II Mission Book Insert # (Supplemental). Excerpts from a briefing given by Dr. Roger LaTrane to support personnel of Odyssey Two. Subject: Status of mission and radio wave patterns of the planet Jupiter. Three days ago we received the first voice transmission from Odyssey Two. Major Bentzel was the first to undergo transition. He immediately informed us that all was well. He indicated that there were some problems in transition, and that we will have to further refine the F-# series of hibernative drugs. However, the remainder of the crew underwent transition without any noticeable physical or psychological damage. The families were notified and messages were sent and received. Needless to say, the men and their families were happy to hear each others' voices after two years of waiting. Our telemetry monitoring devices gave every indication throughout the two-year journey that all systems were functioning perfectly. Major Bentzel's voice transmission served to increase our feelings of optimism. Now it is my sad duty to report to you that we have completely lost communication with Odyssey Two. Telemetry ceased soon after the ship went into orbit around Jupiter. We are continuing to emit a series of electronic probes but, as of this time, our instruments indicate the ship no longer exists. Dr. Miller has been continuing to study the unusual radio bursts from the vicinity of the planet, the signals that led us to send out Odyssey Two. It is Dr. Miller's contention that these bursts of energy may be read as a sort of code. As incredible as this may seem, I feel we are in no position to discount any theory about the planet Jupiter. Dr. Miller's computations and symbol reconstruction will be distributed to you in a separate memo. Dr. Miller's work leads him to believe that the signals may be interpreted in such a manner that they spell out the following words: I-T I-S A-L-I-V-E. arc beams the moment the craft penetrated the visible outer fringe of Jupiter's atmosphere. Stray wisps of gas danced over the rainbows of phosphorescent fire. The radar gave no indication of another craft in their vicinity. Tack flew on, down toward the planet's surface. Soon the scooter was completely enveloped in gas of a thicker density, deeper and darker in color. Tension limited the conversation of the men to brief exchanges concerned solely with the operation of the craft and readings of the radar sweeps. They did not discuss the fact that they had lost IF communication with the main ship, nor that the craft was beginning to feel sluggish, a small sliver of metal drowning in some mad artist's pallet of oils. There seemed nothing to do but go on; the skein of logic they had presented to Eric back on the main ship still seemed valid. One man could bring the ship back to Earth just as easily as four. There was a reason they had undertaken this journey. The instruments continued to indicate that they were still far above the point where the atmosphere might be expected to condense or liquefy and the actual surface of the planet was thousands of miles below that. Still, something was happening in the atmosphere outside the craft. They were slowing. Acting on impulse, Tack reached up and shut off the beacons; they were surrounded by an iridescent glow that seemed to spring from the metal itself, as if it were ablaze. Tack's gaze fixed on the instrument panel; the temperature readings were normal. The shimmering glow changed from a deep orange to brick red, then to a deep, garish purple that glowed brighter, as if from an energy source of its own. Droplets of gas were condensing on the outside of the hull. The droplets thickened and coalesced into clumps of jelly-like matter that spread rapidly over the entire outer surface of the scooter, blocking off the vision of the men inside. Streaks of blue and silver appeared as the substance ate through the enamel and attacked the metal alloy of the scooter itself. Tack struggled frantically with controls that did not respond. The air speed indicator showed that they were almost at a standstill, a metallic vegetable suspended in a monstrous bowl of celestial Jello. Tack thrust the emergency throttle forward. His ears told him that the engines were operating at peak capacity, screaming and tearing at the ooze that surrounded them. The scooter remained motionless. Tack heard a choked gasp behind him. He twisted around in his seat, freezing halfway as his eyes came to rest on the tiny, white glistening drops of molten metal that dripped from the ceiling, floating free in the zero-G environment. He watched in numb, horrified fascination as one of the droplets came to rest on Chiang's arm. The fabric of the crewman's suit began to smoke. The ship was dissolving around them. There was little time to cry, or even to scream. The entire reaction reached its peak in a matter of seconds. The scooter and its human occupants broke up and dissolved in the thick jelly, transforming their matter into gaseous elements to float for eternity above the shape of a globe they had never seen. the time-lapse recorder clunk into place, signaling the deaths of six men and a dream. Jupiter had defeated them. It was time to go home. He was mildly surprised to find that he felt little emotion. He had seen death in the eyes of his men before they had left the ship, had felt and heard it in the empty silence of the radio. Now that death was a reality, Eric found that he had already been drained of sorrow and apprehension. He was the only one left, the seventh man, and it was his clear duty to bring the ship back to Earth. Still he hesitated, watching with mild interest as the digits on the clock marked the passage of time in the empty chamber. He found the concept of time suddenly void of meaning; life and death were the only markers, the only boundaries within which a man could measure the value of his existence. An hour later Eric had still not begun the preparation of the ship for the return voyage. He found himself walking slowly down the passageway leading to the vehicle launch bay. He stopped at the end and peered through the glass window into the airlock where the last scooter sat in its concrete berth, its engines ready, if need be, to send him soaring down after the others to continue the search. His hand reached out and stroked the silver surface of the space suit hanging in an open cubicle next to the entrance to the airlock. Once again, as he had done so many times in the past, Eric thought of Claude Philmore, his counterpart on the first mission. Certainly, Eric thought, Philmore must have been in this same situation. Perhaps he had even stood in this same spot on his own ship when the time had come for him to make his final decision. What had he done? That was the question that pounded at Eric's consciousness. It seemed obvious that the man had ignored his directives and taken the third scooter. Then what of the ship? Perhaps he had tried to bring it back and had been caught in a meteor storm. No, Eric thought; any activity like that would have been monitored back on Earth. Then what of the ship? And the signals? And the silence? Eric turned and made his way back to the main chamber. His footsteps echoed on the metal surfaces, mocking him. He wept freely. At that moment he would have given his life for one single moment with the sea at his feet or sunlight on his upturned face. The preparations did not take long. The ship had been designed for emergency one-man operation and it was simply a matter of reprograming the computer and resetting the various instruments that would serve to guide the huge machine back through the two year night to orbit around the IF planet that hung in space like an exquisite, blue jewel, an oasis in a desert of death. The computer set, Eric returned to his cubicle and strapped himself into his life-support couch. He inserted the intravenous feeders into the metal caps implanted in his arms, then prepared to inject the F-# solution into his veins. The fluid, dark amber in color, floated in the vacuum inside the hypodermic needle. Eric pulled back the plunger and held the tip a fraction of an inch above the blue, distended surface of a large vein on the inside of his elbow. He blinked. Somewhere in his mind a curtain had parted and something was shining in the darkness -- a piece of a puzzle. Eric very carefully replaced the hypodermic needle in its refrigerated container, unstrapped his body, removed the plastic feeders, then hurried back to the vehicle launch chamber. From there he deactivated the blast-off controls and checked to make certain the ship would remain in orbit. Then he donned his suit and entered the pressure chamber. He thought he had seen one piece of the puzzle. Now he must search for the remaining pieces. He was sure he knew where to look. His Fingers trembled as he checked and rechecked the scooter's instruments and energy bank. Satisfied at last that all was in order, Eric climbed in and closed the canopy above his head. He pushed the launch lever and the craft slid from its berth out into space. He allowed himself a few seconds to float free of the main ship, then touched the ignition button. The engines of the vehicle roared to life, speeding the man and his machine out into the void toward the object of his search. answers had to tie in with Philmore. If Philmore were alive and in some way responsible for the altered phenomenon puzzling Earth -- where would he be? He could not be on the planet's surface. Eric was sure of that. He had to be on one of the moons. How could he have survived all these years? Eric knew such survival was theoretically possible in the physical sense. Food, elimination of body wastes and other physical needs were taken care of by cyclical apparatus within the environment of the scooter. Water and oxygen could be reconstituted from wastes for an indefinite period of time and the food could have come from the stores on the ship. The chemical nutrients alone could sustain one man for an indeterminate number of years. Still, it seemed highly unlikely that any man could maintain his sanity for any great length of time here -- sufficiently to develop an apparatus capable of interfering with the signals from the planet. He would see, Eric thought. Philmore, if he were alive, would have all the answers. Eric set his craft in a trajectory that he had "calculated would take him to the first of his targets, one of the smaller moons now on the far side of the planet. He estimated it would take him months to scan the surfaces of all twelve satellites and he wondered what his own mental condition would be if, after all that searching, he found nothing. He decided it would do no good to dwell on such things. He began a detailed systems check to help the time pass. Days passed. He scanned each square mile of the first moon's surface with skill and precision bom of years of training. He had quickly developed a system; after an initial scanning flight he would prepare a detailed grid on the photographic charts and begin a new, inch-by-inch scan of that particular moon's geography. He flew at low speed and dangerously low altitude. Even then he would often be left with the haunting thought that he had somehow missed Philmore. He would finish with one satellite, go on to the next, fighting the compulsion to go back and search again. He knew he had no time to waste -- Ganymede alone would take him three or four months to scan properly. He must go on. Once he landed and slept for fifteen hours in the cramped quarters of the scooter. Another time, on the third moon he had chosen, he had been forced to get out and search on foot through a vast hilly region, pock-marked with caves. They had been four hungry, thirstfilled days as he had been forced to trek in an ever-widening circle, farther and farther from the lifesupport systems of the scooter. Soon Eric was flying the craft in a semi-stupor, unthinking, mechanically performing the flight operations as the scooter flew from one moon to the next; he listened like an automaton for the dull click of his instruments that would tell him the next satellite was near, another dead body to map and search and leave behind. He felt his soul slowly being torn apart, scattered about a few pieces at a time, strewn behind him on the moons' surfaces. He traveled in a counter-clockwise orbit around Jupiter so that the glow from the planet was always on his left side. Once he developed fever and was forced to stop and rest. He tossed fitfully inside the scooter, his nightmares filled with gaseous, orange-red beasts that clawed at his shaking, feverwracked body. He reached Ganymede twentyseven days from the time he had IF left the main ship. The day after that he found it. Fatigue and shock had taken their toll of him. He could feel hysterical, insane laughter swelling and 'bubbling in his throat, about to erupt in a geyser that, once released, would never stop. He experienced a sudden sensation of being a part of the scooter, a growth on its innards; he would ram the machine into the surface of the moon and at last the nightmare would end. Below him, barely visible beneath the lip of a ledge, its chipped and tarnished surface gleaming dully in the glare of his beacons, was a green scooter identical to his own. Eric swallowed his laughter and brought his craft back under control. He circled the area, dropping lower on each turn. Adrenalin surged through his body to the point where he felt he must scream with joy. But he dared not, for the same reason that he dared not laugh; once started, it might not stop. A figure emerged from beneath the rock shelf, arms waving and neck craned in an effort to keep the scooter constantly in view as it circled over his head. Twice the figure stumbled and fell against the sharp rocks strewn across the surface. Eric groaned -- and this time the laughter found vent and trickled from his lips. How funny it would be, Eric thought, to go through all this and then see Philmore die before his eyes. Each time the figure rose, its suit intact, and continued its mad pursuit of the path of the descending scooter. "Stop running, Philmore," Eric screamed. "For God's sake, stop running. I'm coming down!" His voice echoed loudly and Eric snapped back to reason. Of course Philmore could not hear him; but the man had stopped running and was now standing motionless at the lip of a mediumsized crater, still looking upward. Eric imagined he could hear the from the man's open mouth. Ill down a hundred yards from where the man was standing. Then Philmore was running again; lumbering and falling, rising and lumbering again, seemingly indifferent to the danger of tearing his suit on the rocks. Was Philmore mad? The thought struck Eric that the man might kill them both here on Ganymede. Philmore stopped when he was still ten yards away. Eric tensed, then relaxed; he saw, Philmore's shoulders heave with great sobs. Pale, bleached-out eyes filled with tears. Eric stepped forward and held out his gloved hand. Philmore hesitated, then reached out and touched it with his own. A moment later they were together, hugging one another's shielded bodies. When the first waves of emotion had passed, Eric stepped back and glanced around. His eyes came to rest on a series of letters that Philmore, in some moment of unbearable loneliness, had carved into the rock shelf above his scooter. The edges of the letters still showed the scars of radiation from Philmore's cutting torch. It was a plea -- and an affirmative -- to the surrounding darkness: Philmore's eyes followed the direction of Eric's. Finally he looked back at Eric. His mouth creased in a sad and distant smile and he shrugged. Philmore suddenly grabbed Eric's arm and began pulling him in the direction of the sheltered scooter. Eric's own excitement made him equally oblivious to the dangers of falling as he trotted along beside the other man. In less than a minute they were beneath the rock ledge. Eric could see that a door had been cut into the side of the scooter and the canopy had been sealed with some kind of material that he could not immediately identify. Philmore led him through the door, then closed it behind them. There was a hissing sound and in a few moments a second door, carved at the opposite end of the scooter opened. Only then did Eric realize that the entire scooter had been transformed by Philmore into a primitive, but effective, airlock. He passed through the second door and found himself in a cave, lit by some energy source that Eric knew must come from the components of the scooter. The walls of the cave were completely covered with the same translucent material that had been used to seal the canopy. On close inspection Eric discovered the material to be composed of some sort of wax or some glucose compound. It was fantastic, Eric thought; Philmore had found a way to alter the food compounds in the scooter's life-support system to produce what was, in effect, an airtight cocoon. The entire cave was lined with what seemed to be light, volcanic rock, easy to cut and move around. Some pieces were striking in their resemblance to chairs, sofas and other items of furniture. Eric turned and looked at the other man with a new sense of awe; Philmore looked pleased. He was obviously proud of his handiwork. The entire rear area of the cave was taken up by a mass of electronic gear. Some of the pieces looked as though they had been fashioned by hand. How? Eric thought. And from what? IF Plaques and stone carvings decorated the cave. One picture depicted the bare outlines of a man, a woman and three children. Eric quickly looked away. Philmore's fingers trembled as he attempted to remove his suit. Eric stepped forward and helped him, then removed his own. They stood for long moments, staring at each other. "I'm Eric Bentzel," Eric said at last. He could think of nothing else to say. Philmore's lips moved but no sound issued from his mouth. He put his hand to his throat and began to gag. Eric moved forward but Philmore raised a hand and Eric paused. A thin stream of saliva trickled from the edge of the other man's mouth and his face was crimson, flushed with the terrible effort of speaking. Finally, the human sounds came. "I... I'm... Cl-Claude Philmore. My name is Claude Philmore." "I know," Eric said quietly. Now Philmore's words seemed to come easier. He cleared his throat and swallowed hard. "My God, Eric, I thought I'd never hear a human voice again. I used to talk to myself all the time in the beginning. Then I just stopped. Outside there, while you were circling, I was screaming. Just screaming. I thought I'd forgotten how to speak." Both men sat and were content, for long moments, to feast in silence on the sight of each other. Then they spoke for many hours of home -- the Earth and the smells of living things. Eric found himself increasingly reluctant to leave the subject, to return to the harsh reality that was the planet Jupiter and its moons. When he did question Philmore, it was in a very gentle tone that completely masked the impatience building inside him. Philmore listened patiently to Eric's account of the signal receptions on Earth, then turned and stared at the equipment at the back of his cave. "You managed those bursts of signals, didn't you?" Eric said. Philmore's face, like that of a man struggling to remember the details of a place or event that was only dim history. At last his eyes came into focus and there was a trace of sadness in his voice; he too had found solace in their earlier talk. "It's a very long story," Philmore said. "What I did and how I went about it is recorded in the computer bank of the scooter, although the tapes may be damaged. I had to use some of the computer components for the equipment you see back there. "It appears that all of Jupiter's moons went through a volcanic period, much more severe than that of Earth. As a result, there are many materials here that do not exist at home. In fact, I would guess that the entire crust of this moon and the others is composed of a substance completely alien to us, most likely formed by a combination of volcanic heat and the cold of space out here." Philmore paused, as if waiting for Eric to make some remark. Eric remained silent, running his fingers through some of the fine dust on the floor of the cve. He noticed that it had a distinct metallic quality. "This material tends to bend and distort radio waves," Philmore continued. "Since the moons form a virtual band about the planet itself, this accounts for the erratic radio phenomena always observed on Earth. Also, they make any kind of radio transmission within their boundaries virtually impossible. If you're very close to your target, you may get some kind of signal. Otherwise the signals are absorbed by the electromagnetic bands created by the moons' interaction with the planet." Eric had risen to his feet and was running his hands over the equipment Philmore had assembled. He had never before seen anything like it. "How did you manage to interfere with the signals? What is this, some kind of radio transmitter?" Philmore was shaking his head. "It's not quite that simple," he said quietly. "I don't really know what you'd call it. And it doesn't transmit signals at all; it charges the mountain above our heads and the ground around us." Eric turned and stared at Philmore. Philmore shook his head. "I can't explain it all now. It took me years even to conceive of the plan -- and then there were years of building and planting electrodes in the ground. Working on that was the only thing that kept me sane all these years. "Most of that metal you see I smelted from the rocks around us. Using it, I was able to build a sort of generator that I used to hook up to the power source in the scooter. I then attached this to the electrode system I had planted -- " "You mean you were able to electrify this whole moon?!" "Not exactly. But I was able to generate enough power to charge a large area around us. This disturbed the moon's electromagnetic field and further distorted the signals that passed by from the planet out into space. I was able to compute the relative position of the Earth by star charts. Each time I passed through what I calculated to be a vector where Ganymede was between Jupiter and the Earth, I activated the generator. "It was an absolutely insane idea. But, you see, I had nothing else, no other hope. I didn't dream that it would actually work, but IF from what -- you've -- said, I -- " Philmore's eyes had again grown dark and vacant. He seemed to be trying to recall something -- a memory so terrible that it had been buried deep within Philmore's subconscious and was only now emerging. "You what?" Eric prompted. "I -- it was only a few months ago," Philmore stammered. He seemed completely disoriented. "It was only a few months ago I was able to control the reaction to the point where I thought I could send some kind of message." "Message?" "A -- code. That is, if anybody was -- picking up the interference in the first place." Philmore hesitated, shaking his head back and forth. Suddenly he looked up, his eyes wild and burning with feverish intensity. His thin hand reached out and circled Eric's wrist in a viselike grip. "Your ship!" Philmore yelled. "Where did you leave your ship?! Did you land it on one of the moons?!" "No," Eric said, confused by the sudden change in the man, "I left it in orbit. It's easier -- " He stopped. Strange sounds were coming from the other man's throat, completely different from those he had made in his first effort to speak. Philmore was rocking back and forth, chuckling grotesquely. Finally his soft laughter rose and split into peals of insane howling. Eric hit him hard across the face: Philmore choked, then collapsed into Eric's arms, his hysteria broken. At last he stepped back and heaved a huge sigh. "I think it's too late," Philmore said, handing Eric his pressure suit and donning his own. "I suppose we must try." Eric was holding his helmet in his hands. "Too late for what?" "Don't ask any questions now," Philmore said. He spoke now in clear, firm tones. "We have to hurry. Maybe there is still time. I'll try to explain on the way." Philmore donned his helmet, masking the fine, grainy residue of fear and madness that had settled down into his eyes. Eric followed Philmore out of the airlock, across the surface of the moon to where he had left his scooter. His nerves felt on fire. Philmore's energy and sudden determination had not masked the hopelessness lacing the tones of his voice like a floating, dissonant chord. jectory into phase with the computed coordinates of the main ship and set the engines at full thrust. Philmore told his story in a low monotone, only occasionally interrupted by a sharp cry as one or the other pointed to a spot on the horizon that might be the ship and never was. The crew of Odyssey One had been totally unprepared for the disaster that befell them. Six of the men had been laughing and joking as they manned the two scooters and set off for the planet's surface, leaving Philmore behind to man the main ship. Contact with them had been lost soon after the vehicles slipped into the fog of the atmosphere. Days passed and still Philmore had been reluctant to follow through with procedure and refturn the ship to Earth. He was convinced that the men were somewhere on the surface of the planet, perhaps struggling with any one of hundreds of minor mishaps that might have occurred in the course of preliminary exploration. He could not go down after them; that would have been stretching procedure too far. Besides, he had no coordinates to give him any indication where they might be. But he would not leave them behind to die. He brought the ship into a tight, powered orbit just outside the atmosphere and settled down to wait for the men to effect their repairs and return. Philmore passed the time by running computer analyses of the gaseous components of the atmosphere. One of the first things he discovered was that the great red spot that scudded back and forth across the sphere appeared to be more than simply another, thicker layer of gases. For one thing, it appeared to be very dense, in which case it was difficult to explain why it was not pulled down to the surface by the planet's gravitational field. The rest of his time was spent at the radio, running back and forth through the entire frequency band, then beginning again and working until his eyes grew red and his fingers numb, and he could no longer continue. Philmore paid little attention to the flight instruments. He had computed that the ship could maintain its orbit for years, and there seemed little to gain in continuous checking. He was almost completely absorbed by the problem of contacting the men. After more than three weeks had passed Philmore finally decided that the others would not return. But when he began preparations for the return flight he discovered that the ship had been steadily sinking deeper and deeper into the atmosphere. He opened the portals to discover that the entire ship was being coated with an orange slime that seemed to be eating away the outer hull. His attempts to power the ship out of the atmosphere failed; the force of the engines was insignificant compared to the forces acting on the ship itself. He now knew what had happened to the two exploration vehicles and the men inside them -- and knew the same thing must happen to him. IF He acted instinctively, opting for any chance of survival, however slight. He boarded the green scooter, activated the engines and shot full speed out through the clinging jelly. This initial, powerful thrust had enabled Philmore to break free of the atmosphere, sending him back out into the vacuum of space. Finally he had landed on Ganymede. His first reaction had been one of elation and joy -- he had survived. Such feelings were quickly replaced by panic and despair. It seemed to him that he had merely traded one form of death for another, and he felt he had made a bad bargain -- now he must die of loneliness. He knew that the systems in the scooter would keep him alive indefinitely, if he so desired. But there seemed no point -- he would end as a vegetable, staring with blank eyes out over a bleak, lunar surface and become as bleak and lifeless as it. He would hear no sounds from the outside, for there was no air. In the heavens he would see the sun as a star shining just a bit brighter than those around it. In the beginning he knew he would be thinking of that same sun pouring warm, yellow rays of sunlight on the green and golden meadows near his home in the country. His wife and children would feel that warmth on their faces as they looked into the sky and thought of him. That same sun would be blazing on the Earth, sparkling in the bluegreen waters of the lake where he and his wife had so often swum; it would melt Earth's snows in the springtime, hurry clear, fresh clean water into cascading torrents. Towering trees would feel the warmth of its kiss as their roots sipped water from the warm soil beneath their branches. He would imagine all this, and he would study the dim twinkle of that blazing orb from a waterless world, mired in the powdery dust of Ganymede. Philmore was convinced that he would end as a mindless hulk, dashing out his brains on the dark, lifeless rocks around him. Better to shut down the life-support systems in the scooter and die quicklyHe did not shut down the systems, though he did begin the process twice. Even as the tidal waves of depression had washed over him, his mind was at work, searching for physical and psychological means of survival. chance for survival lay in total, relentless physical and mental activity. He had to free himself of thoughts that would destroy him. Philmore had been the geologist as well as second in command on Odyssey One. Consequently, his first task in his struggle for survival was a thorough, painstaking survey of the rocks, minerals, ores and conglomerates on the satellite's surface. At the end of the first year the chemicals in his kit had been depleted; but he had discovered the metallic nature of the moon's surface and went on to compute that it was this material that was responsible for the distorted radio signals received on Earth. This task completed, there seemed little else to do. Soon Philmore no longer cared to move, even from his seat inside the scooter. Day after endless day he sat, oblivious to his own filth. He felt the shrouds of mental oblivion closing over him and he found he no longer cared. He was uncertain as to what happened to bring him out of his trance. He thought it might have been the sight of a comet or meteor flashing across the heavens. In any event, Philmore suddenly found himself staring at and focusing on the radio transmitter inside the scooter. The next moment he was immersed in a task that would take him a score of years to complete. He expanded his living quarters, creating the cocoon material by experimenting with the food synthesizer controls until he produced a sticky fluid that could be spread and that hardened in a few hours, forming an airtight seal. During this time he had no means of sustenance and almost passed out from hunger. Finally he found the cave, and brought the scooter to it. He had coated the cave with his sealer and pressurized the interior. The last step had been to transform the scooter into an airlock so that he could move back and forth between the cave and the lunar surface. He was now without any form of transportation but he had a home. He considered it a good trade. Philmore realized that he would have to create a totally new form of communication. The germ of the idea for using the moon itself as a gigantic antenna or transmitter had already taken root, but he had no idea of how he was going to go about putting the plan into effect. He sensed that his present knowledge was virtually useless. It was the inadequacy of this knowledge, the necessity for years of continuous experimentation, that freed his mind from the tediousness and danger of idle thought. There were no textbooks; only the transmitter and receiver in the scooter, inscrutable with the impassive coldness of a machine. Armed only with three hundred pounds of transistors, transducers, coils, wires and crystals, Philmore began the struggle to pull his mind back from the brink of madness. It had taken Philmore eight hours completely to dismantle, IF then about two years to master the communications theory that was sealed in its circuits. After that it took him three weeks to determine, beyond any doubt, that the entire frequency band of the set was inadequate to produce any kind of signal from within the electromagnetic barrier formed by Jupiter's moons. Over the years, Philmore stripped the scooter of all components not essential to his own life support. He used these spare parts to build new circuits to add to the old ones, gradually building a machine that was entirely different from the one he had begun with. Parts not available to him he made himself by smelting the metal compound from the rocks around him with his nuclear cutting torch. When he tired of this activity, Philmore would don his suit and venture out onto the moon surand planting electrodes which he then connected to the machine under construction back in his cave. Month after month he would make his forays out onto the surface, ranging farther each time, planting an ever-increasing number of his electronic seeds. Eric knew the rest of the story. Years of trial and error experiments had led to the disruption of signals that had been observed on Earth two and a half years before the launching of Odyssey Two. His last efforts had produced the message that Eric now heard for the first time. H e half turned in his seat, his face drawn into a mask of incredulity. He opened his mouth to speak but Philmore grabbed his arm and pointed to the navigational dials on the computer. Eric turned and felt his stomach contract as he glanced at the dial; they had reached the coordinates of the main ship and there was nothing in sight but the black emptiness of space and the orange glow of the planet's atmosphere outside the canopy. "Give me the controls." Eric impassively switched control of the scooter to Philmore's panel and sat dazedly staring out through the canopy into the void where the instruments and his reason told him the ship should be. Philmore quickly reset the flight coordinates so that the scooter would assume a tighter, looping orbit, sweeping in closer to the planet on each revolution. He set the engines at maximum power and the color code bars on the temperature controls began their slow climb into the red danger zone. Eric ignored them. He had decided that if he must die he preferred that death to be rapid, inside the killer atmosphere. He did not think he could go through what Philmore had survived and he did not want to try. They were rapidly reaching a point of no return, the stage of the atmosphere. In addition, it would be virtually impossible to sight the ship visually. Without that visual sighting, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to dock the scooter. Eric was surprised to find that he was suddenly calm. He was tremendously grateful that he was not screaming at the approach of death, that he felt only a vast, suffocating weariness. He wished it already over with, and was immediately ashamed of the thought. "Earlier you mentioned transmitting that something was alive here," Eric said. He traced his finger down the center of the canopy. Wisps of gas were beginning to collect around the scooter. "What could live in this?" Philmore kept his eyes on the radar but his voice cut through the silence and tension like a knife blade, rising and falling in staccato rhythms. "There's nothing alive on the planet's surface. It's the atmosphere itself that's alive." Philmore interrupted Eric's shocked reply. "That mixture of gases is a living organism," Philmore continued. "I'm sure of it. I've been watching it for all these years, and I'm sure that I'm right. It's not so obvious at first -- but if you observe it over a long period of time, you can see it pulsate in space. My guess is that it's absorbing energy from the planet beneath -- and any matter that enters it. "The organism seems to accept the moons as part of its own system but is extremely sensitive to any other body even approaching its perimeter. Our body reacts the same way, you know; when a germ enters our bloodstream, white blood cells gather to destroy it. It seems to be the same with that thing; it destroys -- or perhaps consumes -- anything that comes into contact with it." "How?" Eric whispered. "I would guess by some dissolving action. It transforms the intruding body into energy to feed itself. The color changes are related to the amount of energy it is absorbing at any one time. I've seen vast sections of atmosphere almost clear, translucent. Then a meteor shower will hit and the whole thing goes crazy, changing to all shades of red, orange and purple. And it starts to glow." That same glow could now be seen surrounding the scooter's canopy. Eric turned away, trying to erase the image from his mind. "How could such an organism exist?" "That I don't know," Philmore said. "I believe the thing to be a cell." "A cell?" "Yes. Everything about it suggests a cell, including the way it destroys any foreign matter that enters it. That red spot that everyIF one gets excited about is the cell's nucleus." "That's impossible," Eric said, feeling foolish and not understanding why. "Maybe," Philmore said evenly. "But when you've been alone in space as long as I have, well, the fact is driven home that the universe is, indeed, constructed on a very large scale." "I know that," Eric said. "But a cell? How could it exist alone?" Philmore shrugged. "On Earth cells evolved into larger organism. Here, at the birth of the solar system, it occurred all at once, on a monstrous scale. Besides, maybe it doesn't exist alone. Maybe like it, scattered all through the universe. I tend to think it exists by itself -- but there could be a larger organism and our entire solar system might be a part of it. Or maybe -- " Philmore's voice rose and broke off in a strangled cry. Eric turned around and saw, far away to their left and surrounded by a murky glow, the dim outline of his ship. death. Consequently he was almost sorry they had found the ship. His old drives and training were returning and that meant simply that dying would be that much harder. Even from a distance, Eric could see silver drops of condensation forming on the outer skin of the hull. "It's too late," Philmore whispered. "God in heaven, it's too late!" Once again his eyes were clouded, and Eric could see that he was reliving the first voyage. The scooter was beginning to slow. "We have to go back." Philmore said, struggling with the controls. The scooter began to turn, a maneuver that served to slow them even more. Eric quickly resumed control of the scooter. He knew they could not go back even if they wanted to -- even if there were something more than a dead moon to return to. They were trapped in the atmosphere. The gas was growing thicker every moment and Eric knew it would not be long before the jellylike fluid that Philmore had described would be forming around the scooter. Their only hope was to reach the big ship. Eric steered the scooter in that direction. The vehicle moved slowly and sluggishly -- but it moved. Eric kept his hands firmly on the controls; if they did not return, there would never be another ship, not in their lifetime. "We have to go back -- " Philmore fought to resume control of the scooter. Eric turned and hit Philmore hard on the side of the neck with his hand. Philmore slumped in his seat. ( Please turn to page # ) back from the control panel of et. Norcriss' waiting couch and his beloved machine with a weary Contact helmet lay idle beside the headshake. "It's no use, sir," he tailfins of the ship. "That's the said. "Except for the bloodhounds same result the roborocket reaboard ship, I get no life-pulse reported," he mused uneasily. "And sponse from the directional beam." yet the animal has been seen, EnLieutenant Norcriss, startlingly sign." white-thatched in his middle thir"A swamp is a dangerous place, ties, sighed and looked into the sir," said Ryder. "The dog could have been swallowed up in a morass, perhaps, or caught by one of those aquatic carnivores -- " Norcriss began to nod, still bemused. Then he straightened and flicked a glance at the technician. "Or reverted to its primitive state," he said sharply. "A dog forced to forage and kill for sustenance might not stay a canus domesticus for very long. Once its primal instincts are reawakened -- " "You think I might get results with a wolf-pulse tape," Ryder interpreted soberly. "It's possible, sir, of course -- " "But you have doubts?" asked Norcriss. "Yes," Bob Ryder said, then added with a rueful grin, "and none of them logical. A change in a life-pulse is not an impossibility under certain circumstances. But it is a rarity -- " His voice trailed off as he concentrated on putting a new tape onto the takeup reel. Despite his doubts he was going ahead with the wolf-pulse check. Norcriss sat down upon the edge of the couch and watched him, marveling at the hundred and one finely calibrated adjustments the other man could make so unerringly in the complex machine without even a minor frown of tight concentration. Ryder loved and babied his device until its function was as familiar to him as his own breathing. His fingers, flickering from knurled knob to toggleswitch to lever to key, moved with sure and unfaltering steadiness. Norcriss, constitutionally unable to allow his mind to idle over nothing in particular, presently thought back over the events that had brought them to the planet. The Ecologists of Earth had raised the first ripples of concern about colonization of Rigel II. Preliminary exploration by .roborocket had shown it eminently suited for certain human temperaments, mostly men and women of the tropic regions and especially the Seminole Indians of Florida and the many whites who had over many generations come to thrive on swamp-living along with their red-skinned neighbors. Roborockets, designed to orbit a planet until all species had had life-pulses correlated with those of known species, had found no wild life insurmountably dangerous to man on Rigel II -- that is, any hazards to colonists could be met and overcome by simple vigilance and adeptness with #st Century weaponry. The trouble was that: "The animal life there is self-menacing," said the Ecologists' report. "A strange sort of apathy seems o prevail among two of the most ubiquitous species; there is no inbuilt instinct for self-preservation. Luckily the beasts seem to be incredibly prolific or they would long ago have died out. But putting a new factor -- Man -- on the planet might have decidedly disastrous reIF suits. Just a bit of imbalance in such a precarious ecology could turn the planet into a veritable graveyard. Life forms on any given planet interlock like Chinese puzzles. Destroy but one segment -- or let it destroy itself -- and the entire framework collapses. And there is a third species which reacts bothersomely to self-awareness. Not that a spider, for instance, knows it is a spider -- but it does know enough to use its poison fangs, to spin a web, or dig a pit. But one beast on Rigel II seems to be confused as to what it is. The roborocket tapes rated the beast strictly according to its level of intelligence -- its habits or life cycle remain mysteries. On these grounds -- two life-apathetic species and one totally unknown type -- we cannot recommend the planet for colonization until a qualified Space Zoologist has discovered more than we now know." And perhaps not even then , Lieutenant Norcriss thought wryly. If his discoveries proved to be bad news colonization was out. He felt himself begin to shiver and fought his unease until it went away. To a Learner, a man whose survival in Contact with the mind of a subintelligent alien species was at the mercy of the creature's survival -- if it died while he was in the unvarying forty-minute Contact, so did he -- the notion of being enhosted in a species which didn't seem to care if it lived or died was boasted two such species. T HE bloodhounds had been brought by Norcriss' ship for the salient reason that a man's instincts were not always up to the hazards of swampland areas; seldom sensitive to danger unless he heard or saw something amiss, he had to rely upon the keener awareness of potential menace in the mind and senses of the animal that was, on such a planet, more truly than ever man's best friend. Three dogs had been taken along. On Rigel II they had, of course, been let outside the ship. Penned dogs grow extremely restive under any circumstances -- inside a metal-walled ship, with thrust, shifting gravitational norms and warping into hyperspace to contend with, the animals had to be kept under sedation for most of the trip. But once outside the ship, something had happened. Something unexpected, something strange. After the animals' initial delirium of joy at being freed to gambol about on the coarse-grassed hummock upon which the ship had set down, they'd lain in the hot greengold sunlight, ribs in-and-outing contentedly, slack jaws huffing to draw air across the cooling system of their tongues, tails wagging in slow, lazily comfortable oscillation -- until one of them had sprung to its feet, a growl buzzing deep in the folds of its rippled, sagging throat. lifecycle It had dashed into a clump of reeds at the edge of the small hummock, sniffing busily. What it found among the reeds, no one knew. But with a yelp it had sprung backward, howling terribly and flopping about on its back. Then, with a strange grunting sound and an unwontedly awkward coordination of its limbs, it had plunged without warning into the scummy waters of the swamp and slogged, splashed and paddled from sight, ignoring the shouts of the crewmen and the agitated barking of its fellows on the shore. Subsequent checking of the reeds showed nothing to the men of Norcriss' ship. Reeds, water, scum, and nothing else. The two remaining hounds were brought to sniff at the area, but they simply whined in bewilderment and seemed to find no scent at all. A check via Ryder's life-pulse machine at the same spot evoked nothing but the faintest of pulsations, those of the reeds themselves. Unnerved more than he would admit by the incident, Norcriss had suggested that Ryder locate the missing animal so that -- by a kind of proxy Contact -- Norcriss might delve into its mind and memories to ascertain what the source of its odd behavior might have been. When the machine found nothing a roborocket had been sent aloft, in case some unexplained planetary field might be distorting the beam from Ryder's machine. Save for the two dogs still on hand (now kept aboard ship for safety), the roborocket's tapes showed no dog in existence upon Rigel II. And even as Ryder had been finding this out one of the crewmen had spotted the missing animal, its fur wet and clotted with scum, moving over the surface of a distant islet in the swamp. Which was impossible. Roborockets didn't make mistakes like that. Norcriss, more concerned than ever, had suggested that Ryder try the machine again, swirling the beam in the area where the dog had just been spotted. And the machine reported nothing. "I'm sorry, sir," said Ryder, turning from his machine. "The wolf-pulse gets no reaction, either. I'm afraid we'll have to forget about the animal." Norcriss, his tone just short of being sharp, said, "You know we can't. Even if I check out the three species in question. Ensign, we have to know what's happened to that dog. If a dog can go berserk on Rigel II we're going to have to know the reasons. What can happen to a dog can also happen to a man, Ensign." Bob Ryder smiled, unruffled. He'd worked long enough with Norcriss to know that the latter's ungenerous mood was the outward effect of underlying fear. On Rigel II Norcriss had every reason to fear non-return from Contact, more than on most planets. IF "I know, sir," Ryder said quietly. "But there's nothing we can do at the moment about the dog. Until we think up some new ideas -- " He let the statement stand unfinished. The choice was up to Norcriss. A zoologist had the option to refuse Learning a species where destruction was better than a # # certainty. Norcriss, however, nodded. "I may as well get with it," He pivoted slightly on the edge of the couch and, lying back, adjusted the helmet to his head and his body to the surface it would inhabit mindlessly for the next forty minutes. "Any time you're ready," he said and closed his eyes. Ryder put the life-pulse tape which the primal roborocket had garnered from Rigel II on the spindle and locked it into place. Then he hesitated. "With your permission, sir," he said, pausing until Norcriss reopened his eyes and cast him a quizzical glance, "I'll choose the worst first. I figure that if you go through the two life-apathetic species right away the third Learning might be a bit easier on you -- " "Good. I thipk I'd rather do it that way, myself." For a moment, his gaze locked with Ryder's. "Thanks." He closed his eyes again. Amid the burble and rustle and plash of the swamp, he heard the technician's hands making final adjustments upon the control board of the machine. Then his mind dissolved into a flare of almost intolerable white energies and --  -- he was in Contact. T HE creature in which he was hosted had its eyes open but for a dizzy moment Norcriss could not figure out what he was seeing or how. There seemed to be water and dull green grass everywhere, images overlapping without linking. He let his mind relax, then, let it reject its own preconceived notions of how-to-see, and allowed the "attitude" of the alien being toward sight convince his mind of the rightness of its alien method. And then he could see clearly. Directly ahead. In three different directions at once. He was bobbing on the restless surface of the swamp among a group his host recognized as similar creatures. Well, that's a help... It was not always easy to guess at the appearance of an animal one enhosted, any more than a lone man without hands, arms or mirror could ascertain that he had purple-spotted earlobes or earlobes at all. But upon seeing the fellows of the creature he would be for forty minutes (although the time might be subjectively shorter or longer according to the host's own time-sense), he knew what he himself looked like. Like a pale-green apple pie, a nubbly-topped swollen disc bobbing on the swamp surface. But a stem of sorts grew upward from the top center of the pie and curled like a garden hose in an arc that took its invisible other end somewhere below the surface of the algae-covered water. Near the base of that stem three subsidiary stalks jutted in triplicate symmetry horizontally, each terminating in a moist green globe, pea-sized, that was an eye. His initial confusion as to what he was seeing had been due to seeing in three ways at once: forward and slightly abaft of either side. But the beast itself seemed to have no notion of front or back or sideways. Anywhere it looked was its "only-direction." Its spatial sense seemed limited to "where-Iam" and "where-everything-elseis." How large an object he was at the moment he had no idea. But if the size of the coarse marsh grass were unvarying about the planet, he was roughly the diameter of a manhole-cover, and as tall -- if such a squat creature could conceive such a dimension -- as an average watermelon lying on the earth beside its vine. Vine... he repeated to himself, uneasily. For that was what the arcing hose-appendage reminded him most of. Yet the creature seemed to be animal, not plant. I wonder if it's ambulant... Asserting full control over the alien mind, he attempted to find out. Letting his own mind's "legsense" take over, he tried to move from the spot where he floated. Around him, he saw the water begin to ripple as his host's legs, or fins, or perhaps cilia, tried to move it. He found himself moving steadily along the surface of the water, while the other creatures sluggishly slid out of his path -- and then lancing pain seemed to tear at his mind's "heart-sense" and he almost passed out. Dazedly, he realized that the vine remained anchored at swampbottom somewhere and that its base was threatening to crack off. He groaned, managing to paddle or flit or ciliate back to the place from which he had started. This thing has no more true ambulance than a water-lily. Just so far , and then its life is ripped away... That it fed somehow upon nutrients in the muck of the swampbottom he had no doubt now. Creeping unwanted into his memory came the ecologists' fear of this creature's self-destructive nature. I wonder if a shift in the seasons or rising waters or some such m stimulus makes the things deliberately snap their life-stems off Resting after the short but agonizing ordeal, he once more studied the fellow-creatures of his host. They bobbed at their stalks in placid contentment, either oblivious or just bored about his brush with death. He had to admit to himself after what seemed an interminable interim of simply floatIF ing in one spot: If they re self-destructive, I don't see how. None of them seems to have the pep to go and wrench the food-tube off at the stem... He stopped his introspection as the other members of the group abruptly began to splash and twirl in growing frenzy. Distantly -- as though the nubbly surface of the alien were its "ears" -- he heard something sloshing through the swamp. Hating to do it, he released most of his control upon the mind he inhabited. Until he was certain the thing was about to destroy itself it would be safer to let the alien take charge. It knew the emergency; he didn't. Instantly his host began to churn the water and to spin in circles about the end of the vine-thing to which it was attached. Norcriss could feel the torsion this continued circling made in the stem, a feeling akin to having one's flesh held between pincers and then twisted. Frightened, he grabbed control of the alien and stopped its thrashing. Alone amid its fellows his host bobbed unmoving. advancing over the murky waters. Like a large anaconda with a double row of Fins running down its back in tapering heights, the thing glided through the reeds, some sort of froggish limbs near its neck and abdomen and just before the tail tip propelling it hungrily toward the cluster in which he hung, helpless, anchored to the life-giving vine. Its short, broad jaws gaped wide, exposing upper and lower rows of flat, incisor-like teeth, curved rather than pointed but apparently razor-sharp, like a scalloped edge on an aspirin-box. Not the sort of jaws that would do much damage to a human being -- the teeth seemed chitinously flimsy, not likely to penetrate flesh, bone or muscle -- but certainly up to biting hunks from the pulpy, soft-crusted surface of his host. Swollen water-gray eyes saw the cluster and the beast opened its jaws even wider, hurrying its pace. A sharp, crackle, then another, drew Norcriss' attention from the oncoming horror and let him witness another one. On the rim of the cluster, one, then two, then five, then singly and in pairs, the fellowaliens to his host were passing beyond the torsion-limit of the foodtubes, and breaking free. The torn ends of the tubes puckered and spurted slimy yellow droplets for a dwindling moment, then fell into the water and vanished. And the attached aliens, ripped from the tubes, collapsed like riven mudbubbles, turning from green to ashen gray and flattening until they lay almost paper-thin upon the water, the eye-stalks staring wildly until the last minute, then shriveling into knotted gray stumps. And these deflated aliens the advancing creature ignored. It slithered between their flattened corpses, heading in unrelenting serpentine movement toward Norcriss. He saw the gaping mouth, and knew that death was upon him. How much longer he could count on being enhosted he had no way of knowing. But death in that hungry mouth was a certainty, as far as its swiftness. Death by severance from the vine was slower, if only by seconds. Not letting himself think, Norcriss withdrew control, felt the host -- free at last from the unaccountable immobility that had paralyzed its underlimbs -- begin to backtrack in the water, tug at the vine. The vine splintered, frayed -- Norcriss, in the voiceless host, gave a mental shriek of horror and incredible pain -- and then he felt his host collapsing, dimly saw the severed vine spurting into the humid air. Then his eyes curled up, his mind gave a despairing sob, and his urgent prayer for that salvational flare of mental lightning heralding the completion of the Contact went unanswered. Suddenly there was nothing to see, to think, to know. Norcriss was dead. the dial fell abruptly to the zero calibration. He thumped it frantically, readjusted its sensitivity, did everything he could to negate the terrible message it wrote upon the face of the machine. Norcriss had gone the way of so many zoologists before him. Trapped in an alien body when that body died, he had himself died. Numbly Ensign Bob Ryder turned to look at the silent form upon the couch. The motionless body that was only seemingly dead a moment before was now never going to move again. Ryder had always known in his heart that it might happen, but a kind of blind optimism had prevented him from ever letting himself believe that it actually would, someday, although statistics on the life-expectancy of Learners was a grim warning that the odds were all stacked against Norcriss from the day he became involved in his first Contact. One of the hovering crewmen, alerted by his despairing cry, spoke haltingly to Ryder. "Has it happened, sir?" Ryder, feeling too choked for a long explanation, just said, "Look for yourself," and pointed at the dial. The man looked where Ryder indicated and blinked in uncomprehension. "But it's moving, sir," he said. "What?" gasped Bob Ryder, spinning to look. The dial was indeed creeping upward from the zero mark, slowly but steadily reaching the point where Norcriss' mind, at whatever spot it might inhabit, would be attaining consciousness. "I'll be damned!" said Ryder. "How the hell can he -- " A sputter and flare of electricity IF interrupted him, and he saw with dismay that the tape-spool, on which the recorded life-pulse of the species under investigation lay, was doing an untoward shimmy. Ryder reached over and pulled it from the spindle before it could burst into flame. Once enhosted, Norcriss had no need of the tape, anyhow. Contact would go its immutable forty minutes and then return him to his own brain if tape, spool, machine, couch and helmet were wrecked. It was an electronically triggered power of the human mind, an extension, boosted incredibly, of any person's ability to "look at things from another's point of view." Once the tape-plusmachine-and-helmet had induced a zoologist's mind to leap into another brain, the task of electronics was over, save for recording what had occurred. But the behavior of the tape was without precedent. Ryder looked at the tape he held, then at the dials on the face of the machine. "This is crazy!" he said, with a short laugh of bewilderment. "What is, sir?" asked the crewman, who had come nearer hopefully upon seeing the motion on Norcriss' own life-pulse dial. "I put in only the one tape," said Ryder, scratching his head, "but Norcriss is now enhosted in the second of those self-destructive species," he murmured, vaguely pointing to a waiting spool of roborocket tape, "the one I was going to feed into the machine next!" "How could that be, sir?" asked the man. "At the moment," said Ryder, "nobody knows but Lieutenant Norcriss himself." He stared at the machine, shaking his head. sciousness slowly, as one who rises from the depths of a dark well of ink, then was -- with a shudder of memory -- fully alert and overwhelmed with confusion. He knew he had been dead -- or at least, as dead as his host had been -- but now he was alive again. The phenomenon was beyond his comprehension. Until he began looking about him. He was lying upon the slope of a rise of land, a part of his body still trailing in the swamp. A few of his fellow-aliens lay beside him but they no longer resembled themselves as he had last seen them. The flat, ashen-gray discs had curled at opposite edges, rolled themselves up, scroll-fashion, and become salami-sized gray slugs. As in most vermiform creatures, the alimentary canal proceeded from an orifice in the forward tip to an almost-identical orifice in the tip of the tail. The hollow produced by the rolling-up of the flat gray disc was now serving as this canal, he realized. The shriveled eye-stalks, slowly bloating during the long immersion in the water, were now studding the rim of the forward orifice, again in symmetrically arranged position. The other worm-things were munching at the muck upon the slope, and Norcriss released control upon the alien mind to allow his host to join them. No telling how much of a strain the period of "death" had occasioned in the organism; immediate feeding might be a necessity for hanging on to the slender thread of life. What kind of metabolism does this thing have , anyhow? I've never seen anything on Earth like it... He checked the thought suddenly, realizing that it was untrue. Out in the swamp behind him and to both sides of where his far end still trailed in the water, he saw some of the still-flattened "corpses" starting to curl their edges slowly in the sunlight, and knew what counterpart to their behavior he had seen on Earth, and seen often: Bananas and tomatos. Plucked unripe from their life-source, they should die, should remain unripe until they rotted. But they didn't. Left in the sun, they continued to develop, independent of the parentstem, the green flesh turning healthy yellow or flaming red, until ripe maturity was reached. If a plant can do it, there's no reason why this animal I'm Learning can't, is there? I'm not surprised at the conduct of a banana or tomato, so I should have my head examined for being so shocked about this thing. At least I can give a positive report to the ecologists. This kind of species is anything but self-destructive. The roborocket just didn't recognize its new life-pulse as the met amorphic state of the old one... With a hiss and flap of great wings, a large avian creature thumped to the earth at the top of the slope, its curving beak looking hungry to Norcriss' instinctively chary gaze. It made no move to approach the slug-things on the slope, but the nearest of these ceased its mucky meal and began to hump and elongate its way up the rise of slick soil to the very claws of the waiting creature. Then, to Norcriss' horror, the beaked avian bent, lifted the slugtiling in its mouth and -- head tilted well back -- swallowed it in a single gulp. Oh damn, here I go again... At the thought of being enhosted in yet another apparently self-destroying creature, Norcriss realized that this must be at least a roborocket-indistinguishable cousin of that next alien he was to Learn. His companions were all gone now and the creature at the top of the slope was eyeing him expectantly. This, Norcriss realized, was not the time to loose the controls of his host. He could only hope that the worm-gobbling thing was inured to cooperation of its prey IF to the point where it wouldn't know what to do if one simply refrained from offering itself as the blue-plate special. But the beaked monstrosity only waited for a leeway of an apparent ten seconds before it came waddling clumsily down the slick slope, beak open and ready for tenancy. A taloned claw slipped in the muck and the avian had to use its wings furiously to keep itself from an ungracious sprawl upon its splayed-out tailfeathers. Futilely, Norcriss tried to slither backward into the concealment of the swamp but his host didn't seem to possess a "reverse" in its neuromotor arrangement. Then the great beak was pinching the soft flesh of his enhosted alien and, with a mental groan of despair, Norcriss felt the peristaltic action of the avian's gullet pulling his temporary body toward death in its stomach -- or in its crop, if its bird-resemblance went into that detail of nutrition. A bird that never dined on nuts or kernels or hard items of aliment wouldn't need a crop. His own lackadaisically clinical attitude toward sure disaster suddenly surprised him. I'm either too numb from the last Learning to care or my host knows something I don't that gives it a confidence great enough for my mind to share... He felt no panic, no fear, only fatalistic resignation. As a wellingup of juices began to lave and prickle upon the tender flesh of his host, Norcriss sensed that his awareness was dimming in direct ratio to a sort of stiffening sensation in the flesh. This time I am dying. I can feel nutrients from the flesh being leeched away by these juices , feel the remainder of my host growing tough and leathery , feel the tip-totip alimentary tube coiling into a sort of quivering nucleus... His mind tried to be afraid but two sessions of complete terror in one day were beyond it. I'm mentally anesthetized. I've 'died' already , today, and my mind is too weary to be scared now. So I'm drifting with the stream of my host's vanishing consciousness, knowing that what is happening is right and proper and not a cause for fear. Because... Then he had it. Norcriss knew why the ecologists were wrong. This creature was following through magnificently in its emulation of Earth-type plant life. Its secondary form was similar in function to that of any fruit on Earth: look attractive, and thus be devoured by animals, in order that the seeds -- that leather-shelled "nucleus" in his host's body -- might be taken and left to take root in the carrier's droppings. At least the tapes back at the ship will record the information for the ecologists. The two species aren't self-destructive. If anything. they're likely to outnumber the other species on the planet , in time -- or their descendents will... Or would they? If one pie-thing became one worm-thing which became one seed, and that one seed grew only one pie-thing via the vine-tube, the race was static. Weakly, as his mind began to go, he gave a chuckle, realizing that the picture was complete: tulips behaved the same way. Destroy a tulip-bulb, and the world was permanently short one tulip. Or was it? Norcriss was foggily trying to reassess what he knew about the sex-life of tulips when a shattering flare of whiteness blanketed his consciousness and --  -- Contact was over. N orcriss sat up on the couch and removed the helmet, brushing his thick pelt of starkly white hair from where the humidity had plastered it to his forehead. "Almost lost me that time," he remarked to Ensign Ryder. "Am I correct in assuming that I somehow went through a caterpillar-tomoth stage, Ensign?" Ryder nodded. "You've squeezed both species into the one forty-minute period, sir. It's unprecedented." "And damned lucky," said Norcriss. "That second species, as far as I can guess, has a life-expectancy of roughly three minutes. If I hadn't been nearly through the forty I wouldn't be here, now." "Are you game for the last one, sir?" asked Ryder, his fingers toying with the rim of a tape-spool containing that third, and wildly incomprehensible, species that seemed to have an incredible lack of self-knowledge. Numerically, the roborocket had reported the third species as being less than a thousand, planet-wide. The Contact helmet, while not selective among a particular species -- that is, one could not aim for a specific member of a species -- would perforce send Norcriss' mind into the nearest of that species. For that reason it was dangerous for crewmen to attack any of the local fauna when the zoologist was Learning. As long as they did not know the appearance of the creature he might be inhabiting they dared not kill any while his body lay helpless upon the couch. Norcriss, naturally, would steer it clear of the ship when he was in control; but this would not always be possible. If, for instance, he had to flee a predator in his alien body, flight in the ship's vicinity might be unavoidable. So at Ryder's query, his nod was only half-hearted. "Here's hoping I don't wind up in a bull-alligator-type of alien," he said, "and blunder past a trigger-happy crewman." Ryder laughed. The crew was hand-picked not to be given to acting without thought. In the military instant and unthinking obedience was a necessity -- except in the IF crew of a space zoologist's craft. There only men who used their minds were welcome. It made for rather relaxed discipline, aboard ship but it brought a lot of zoologists home alive. "All right, then, sir. The tape's in place," Ryder announced a moment later. Norcriss lay back and -- as usual -- was in Contact before his ears could register the click of the switch Ryder's deft fingers threw. Damn it -- damn it to hell... His tactile sensations were sinking slowly into his mind and the information he was absorbing was familiar. Back in his training days, the Learning of Earth-indigenous species was part of the course, and a good zoologist never forgot a host. Vm a dog. I know this feeling , the paw-touch on the earth , the panting , the fur , the tongue , nose, drooping ears... He was on dry land but soon had trotted over to the rim of the swamp and studied his reflection in an algae-free patch of murky water. And unless I miss my guess, Vm that hound we lost right after the landing... The situation was incredible. The tape Ryder had put into the machine should have catapulted his mind into an alien body. What it was doing in this hound? Puzzled, Norcriss withdrew control for a moment or two. Free of interference, the animal romped about a bit on the hummock, sniffed along the ground, lay down and panted in contentment, twitched its tail back and forth -- in short, behaved exactly as a hound was supposed to. I dont get it. But if Ryder or the machine has made some error I ought to take advantage of it and get this critter back to the ship... A few steps around the hummock, head held high, were enough to bring to his sight the gleaming needle that was the nose of the spaceship. After a careful look around him for possible menaces to life and limb, Norcriss guided his recontrolled host into the swirling swamp waters and began to swim it through the intervening reeds toward the waiting ship. It gave him a peculiar sensation, as always, to observe his own body lying on the couch near the hatch of the ship, to see Ryder standing dutifully before the towering face of the Contact machine, keeping an alert eye on the indicators -- to see the crew standing and chatting idly at the site where his body lay in comatose rigidity. Clambering up onto the shore amid the reeds, Norcriss decided once again to relinquish control, to let the animal's natural instincts take it up to romp with the crewmen it had come to know during its exercise periods aboard ship. And as he let go --  -- hate, vicious, mindless hate and icy fear gripped his host. The dog-body, no longer carefree of movement, dropped into concealment behind the reeds and Norcriss felt as though the feet were somehow bogging down into glutinous mire. The fear that his host might have blundered into quicksand made him take control once more and he strenuously tried to extricate his feet from whatever they were imbedded in. With a sucking sensation, a sort of slippery resistance, he felt one, then another, then all the feet come free. But the hound's body had not moved. A glance downward showed the paws precisely where they had been. And they were enmired in nothing. Just slightly dampened from the swim across the shallow swamp, the paws lay upon dry, sunlit land. But they feel free... Tentatively he wiggled a foot, wiggled all four -- wiggled all six -- Startled, Norcriss let go of the alien mind with his own -- and the hound was suddenly gone. He was looking down upon its sprawled body, now, the tongue lolling out of the sagging mouth. He was on the surface of a crusty tree, feeling the searing heat of the sunlight as painfully as if he had been thrown into a furnace. Of his host he could see nothing but the distorted shadow the trunk of the tree but it told him enough to let him guess the rest. The shadow was serpentine, yet possessed of a sextet of limbs and twin ridges along the topside of the spine. He was a puny-sized version -- probably a fairly newborn -- of that pie-hungry creature from his first Contact. He knew now what had happened to the hound. Drawn to the reeds by the scent of an unfamiliar animal, it had been easy prey for the snake-thing, small as it was. A flip of those limbs had sent it, faster than canine reflex, into the mouth of the hound, whereat it had disported its limbs into the very nerves and arteries of the hapless creature, in effect be coming the creature. It was doing physically what he himself did via Contact. The young of the swampsnake could not withstand direct sunlight. They lay hidden in the shadows, or under the water, or inside -- physically inside -- the brain of another creature. It was no wonder they lacked self-awareness. To spend most of one's life under a variety of other-animal forms, a species would be hard put to maintain a sense of its own ancestry. It would have no standard behaviorpatterns for the roborockets sensitive instruments to record. It would come across as a cipher, like a vote of "undecided" in a national poll. My brain is frying... Taken up by his own thoughts, he hadn't noticed the slow softening of his limbs where they gripped the trunk. The flesh was growing ( Please turn to page # ) IF vJsaid. "Good luck, good luck." He did not believe in luck and never had. He believed in hard work and the theory of probability, necessarily in that order. "Good luck -- good luck, Ed." Outside the corridors had been a bedlam. Here in the chamber everything was hushed, sedate. The Senator in the center, who chewed tobacco and called square dances when he was electioneering in his home state, believed in dignity and decorum for these hearings. Even the television technicians were quiet, going about their wire stringing like so many laboring spiders in the eaves of an old barn. The audience was funeral. They're frightened to death of being thrown out. This is the big day of the hearings. The day  go on the stand... He sat down between the company's attorneys. One of them touched his hand lightly and said, "We'll make it, Ed." Without thinking he said, " Wish me luck." Both of them said, "Good luck -- " solemnly. The hush deepened. A red light on one of the TV cameras came on and the Senator in the center rapped his gavel for orders "These hearings are now in session," he said. He had a dry, colorless voice -- like an old law clerk's. "As I do at the beginning of every session, I wish to remind you that these proceedings do not constitute a trial. This is merely the Senate's means of informing itself. Although anyone appearing here may have legal counsel if he so desires, any quibbling will be disposed of in short order by my colleagues and myself. "Most of you are doubtless aware of the subject of these hearings. We are inquiring into a practice initiated by one of this nation's largest manufacturers of digital computers -- a firm which also happens to be fast becoming one of our largest vendors of computer services. Many of the witnesses who have appeared before this committee believed that the economic life of our country is gravely endangered by this company's business practices. It is no secret that many people in the news media agree with them." The Senator on the right interrupted to say, "A great many people consider the practice immoral," and the Senator in the center nodded sagely. "During our last session we heard from a representative of the American bar and from the presidents of the chambers of commerce of the cities of Las Vegas and Reno. Today -- " He paused to whisper to the chief counsel of the committee. The chief counsel said, "Call Madame Felice Dubois." A slender woman who seemed literally to shimmer with chic stood up and glided toward the witness box. The counsel asked her, "You are Felice Dubois, a leading couturiere, with salons in Washington, New York, Los Angeles, London, and Paris -- is that correct?" She nodded almost imperceptibly. "It is." "Do you wish to make a statement to the committee?' The woman's laugh was a quick succession of notes struck on platinum bells. "I should really like to make several. I would need them to tell you all that has been done." "One statement will be sufficient," the Senator in the center said. "Let me make an obvious one then -- about wedding gowns. Our art has given these great study recently -- long-skirted, shortor miniskirted, even the bare midriff and see-through. Most of all we have given thought to the succession of gowns proper in so-called serial marriages. Our economy has come to depend on people's marrying more than once. Our industry has promoted certain colors -- white first, of course. For second marriages, some shade of blue -- then peach or pink, then pastel green and so on. We are not quite in agreement for the fifth -- but it is of little importance. By we've invested a great deal of money in promotion and -- " "And what has been the effect of the business practice under investigation here?" "Disaster! Only two years ago, you comprehend, a third of all marriages ended in divorce, the cultured classes averaging higher, of course. Of those who were divorced -- " The Senator rapped with his gavel. "We heard the statistics yesterday at some length, madam." Evidently the testimony at this point was not going exactly as he had anticipated. "What has been the effect on other areas of your business?" Madame Dubois was subdued now. "A good deal of money spent by women in our industry has been removed from circulation. The divorcee, as a class, you know -- was much interested haute couture -- " "I believe that will be sufficient," the Senator in the center said. "Unless my colleagues have some questions for you, you may step down." The woman waited for a moment, then left the box, making her way gracefully back to her seat. In a whisper picked up by one of the PA microphones the Senator in the center asked the chief counsel, "It's that psychologist fellow next, isn't it?" "Call Dr. Claude Honnicker." dark suit. He wore ordinary, black-rimmed glasses but by some trick of mannerism he wore them as if they were pince-nez. The chief counsel identified him as a specialist in industrial psychology who operated a placement agency exclusively for upper echelon executives and scientists. He was given the same invitation to speak which had been tendered Madame Dubois. "If you don't mind," he replied in a precise voice, "I should prefer to be questioned directly. A general statement might be subject to misinterpretation." "Very well then. In your experience is there a diminished supply of the men in whose services you deal?" "Unquestionably. As compared to a similar period a year ago it is down seventeen per cent. As compared to two years past, twenty-two per cent. That is a very serious decrease and I have reason to believe that this -- uh -- this matrimonial service is largely responsible." "And will you explain -- or can you explain -- how something we have all been led to believe is no more than a computerized -- in your own phrase, matrimonial service -- could lead to this shortage?" "I shall try. In my opinion our own country and every other advanced country in the world is heavily dependent, upon a certain type of man. This man may be an executive, a scientist, a general or a coal miner -- but he is the man who works harder than there is any immediate need for him to work and harder than any of the incentives offered him by society justify. He does this because work offers him an outlet for the tensions a hostile environment have built up in him and society exploits him to its benefit." "You make him sound like an alcoholic," the senator on the right said. "Frankly -- " Dr. Honnicker shifted in his seat -- "such men fairly frequently become alcoholics. Particularly the sales managers, advertising men and other extroverted types. The introverts -- scientists, . for example -- may tend toward paranoia eventually." "Then you believe that the computer service we have been discussing actually benefits these people?" "To the detriment of society as a whole -- yes. The question is: How much can society stand? There are indications that it cannot take much more." "In other words a great number of our most productive people have stopped producing." Dr. Honnicker nodded. "In a certain sense -- that is literally true." "The Senator on the left asked, "In you opinion has this effected IF labor -- I mean the officers of American unions -- to the same degree that it has managerial executives?" "I cannot answer that from certain knowledge but I doubt it. Important union leaders tend to be older than the hardest hit group. The problem has struck most directly at the sort of men who have postponed marriage for reasons of career. This is the rising generation upon whom we depend. I might add that in my experience men who have already made a reasonably successful match have not tended to subscribe." There was a long silence. Then the Senator in the center said, "I think that will be all." The chief counsel announced, "Call Mr. Edward Teal Smithe."  He put hands flat on the table in front of him to raise himself to a standing position. "Take the stand please." He slipped into the aisle and walked up to the witness box. It was as though he were walking through the pews in church again -- the feeling came back across all the years. He had felt then that he was somehow ridiculous and that the people were snickering as he passed. Wanting to turn back and see, he did not. The witness chair was of hard oak, like a school chair. "You are the vice president in charge of your company's operations? Did I understand your title correctly?" The first part, the formalities, had flitted past while he had been in a sort of waking dream. Mentally he shook himself, tried to believe that this was no more frightening than a board meeting. "Yes. Operations as differentiated, for example, from sales or research." "It is your department that offers the public the service to which we have been alluding?" "Yes." "But I believe you have stated to the press that you yourself did not originate the concept of such a service." Tom Larkin had come into his office. Tom was tall and intense and wore a shop coat, often, when he lunched with the Old Man -- an unheard-of thing. He had thrown himself into one of the free-form chairs and announced, "I've got something." Tom was in the Caribbean somewhere now, damn him. Ed had not said, Executive's Itchl as Tom himself might have ynder reversed circumstances. He had not felt up to it. He had merely grunted, "Oh?" "Something that will make this company ten fortunes." "We need it. We just lost a government contract." "I'm aware of that. What's the greatest strength of our Mark XX digital?" Ed had sighed. "Data storage capacity. With the ability to read an alteration in a single molecule as a binary digit the Mark XX can put more information in a hockey puck than most other machines can in a memory bank as big as Long Island. You worked it out. You don't need lessons from me. The Senator in the center asked, "Aren't you going to reply, Mr. Smithe?" "I wasn't aware that your statement required answer. No, I did not originate the concept. You were also correct in stating that I have so declared in the past." "Would you explain to this committee just how your service operates, please?" "From the viewpoint of the customer? A person wishes to make an ideal matrimonial liaison with another. Computers have been used for this in the past, usually on college campuses or by semiserious entrepreneurs with inadequate machines and facilities." "Your program is different?" "Our company has evolved a computer capable of absorbing a truly vast number of facts and a program which permits us to enter almost anything as datum with the assurance that irrelevancies will be canceled out and that we will be notified of any discrepancies. We put this at our client's disposal." "And from this hodgepodge the machine can select a suitable wife for a man or a husband for a woman? Unerringly? I find that incredible." "So did I at one time. As for our percentage of error -- we seem to have attracted attention by not erring." He had read his morning paper, as he always did, in the coffee shop of the residential hotel in which he lived. The story was on the front page, unmissable. Being a thorough man he read it from beginning to end before he finished breakfast and also the editorial it had inspired. Then he had taken a taxi to the plant and, without stopping to hang up his hat in his own suite had gone to Tom's office. Tom had said, "You've seen it. Wild, isn't it?" "It's absurd and fantastic. According to this you told some young man that he would find his beloved -- that's what it says -- in an obscure village in Ethiopia. He sold everything he had, bought a ticket on a jet and IF he and the girl are now married and ecstatically happy." "The story was wrong. He didn't sell anything. If we could give him all that free computer time under the tryout program I saw no reason not to give him a plane ride, too -- it was far less expensive. Round trip for him to Ethiopia, one way for the girl back. It increased his confidence." tor on the right said, "don't you feel that you are treating your computer as an oracle?" "No, I don't. Laymen often do so, I admit. We've done everything in our power to counter that impression. Do you remember the man who went to Ethiopia? It was the first case that was played up by the news media and it did a lot to confuse things." The Senator in the center said, "I remember the case well. It did a lot to confuse things." The Senator in the center said, "I remember the case well. It seemed almost miraculous." "The man in question was an intelligent young Negro. He had volunteered for the service while we were still trying to get it out of the egg, so to speak. We gave him extensive psychological tests, fed the results to the computer and then gave the new tests it recommended. A fantastic number of hours of machine time were required then, but Tom Larkin, who is our vice president for research and the real instigator of the service, had faith in it." "And what, in the opinion of the computer, did the tests show?" "Well, for one thing, the young man was intensely interested in Coptic Christianity. The Mark XX felt someone of his own faith would make the best partner for him. It also found that since he had spent his early childhood in a rural area and reacted unfavorably to urban life when his family moved to the city, a girl from a semi-rural, rather isolated locale would suit him best. In this country there are very few Coptic Christians in isolated areas. In Ethiopia Coptic Christianity is the state religion and there are a great many. This is simplified, naturally -- but you see the approach. Thousands of other correlations like this were made before the specific girl was selected." "The newspapers make your Mark XX sound like a pythoness but now you're making it sound as if it's only someone's wise old tin grandmother, Mr. Smithe." "It's neither. It is a machine for manipulating data. Senator, may I say something that's been on my mind for a long time?" "Please do. That's what we're here for." "As I've said, all of us in the computer industry have fought the public desire to make something supernatural of our machines. But there is one way in whicji the public's misconception is useful. It often makes people do the logical thing when the logical thing is something that would be called silly if it were suggested from another source. If a town stood on the slope of a dormant volcano and the volcano started to rumble and smoke, a lot of the people might not want to leave. Because, after all, the volcano had never erupted before -- at least as far as their knowledge went. But if a computer told them it was prudent to move they probably would. It may be that the man in the street is right to be a bit awed. If awe impels a man to follow a logical course of action -- then awe has its uses. I've noticed that the comman man is often most right when he seems most wrong." "That was quite a speech, Mr. Smithe," the Senator said dryly. "My impression is today that the man in the street believes his country's going to the dogs, and I understand from some of the testimony we heard yesterday that the company you represent has offered your marriage-broking service -- I think I can call it that -- to more than a hundred thousand Americans without fee. Do you have any comment on the last?" known a sick and sinking feeling. There had been a ring in the Senator's voice that suggested. he stood tried and condemned -- of what? Something sneaky and perhaps un-American? "You see, Senator," he began, "when Mr. Larkin persuaded our president to put the service on the market -- " The service hadn't been much of a success. Oh, it succeeded in satisfying customers -- it became better and better and processing required less time with every new client. But there hadn't been enough clients. Not nearly enough. They had all been called into the Old Man's conference room that day and there wasn't a one of them -- himself from Operations, Larkin from Research, representatives from Sales, Advertising, and Manufacturing -- who hadn't know what was coming. The president, the Old Man, never tore into anyone; that was part of his charm and his effectiveness. He always spoke logically and fairly and when he could give the man on the carpet the benefit of the doubt he gave it. But he always had the facts. "Mr. Larkin," he had said slowly, "I know you remember the meeting at which it was decided to put this experiment of yours on a cornIF mercial basis. I had almost said, 'it was voted,' but you will also recall, I think, that only you and I voted in favor. So we did it anyway." Tom had said he would never forget that. "But we are losing money on it. The sales curve for -- what do you call it?" "Program Roses." "For Program Roses has been nearly flat and recently, in fact, has started slanting downward. Roses is in the red and I'll tell you frankly that if the rest of our business were not experiencing a goodish upturn we wouldn't have been able to carry it this long. Can you give me any reason why Program Roses should not be terminated?" The Senator interrupted. "From all you've said, Mr. Smithe, it seems to me your company should have sent Mr. Larkin to testify before this committee instead of yourself." "We wanted to," Ed said, "but he couldn't be reached." "Couldn't be reached?" "You see, he himself eventually subscribed. He and his bride are taking a six-month honeymoon in a sloop. Tom's always been quite a sailor in his spare time, and as it turned out the girl Roses picked for him is, too." "Did you say six months?" The Senator sounded incredulous. "With pay. Our president didn't want to let him have more than three but Tom threatened to quit." "It would seem -- " the Senator was smiling coldly -- "that you have been victimized by your own cleverness." "We don't think so. You see -- " Tom had waited until the Old Man was finished before he exploded his bombshell. Until he was finished and there been a long, pregnant pause. Then he hadn't addressed the president directly; he appeared to speak to Sales: "I don't want Roses discontinued -- it's the best thing we've got. I want to give it away." No one had spoken. Ed remembered that he himself had known a sick realization that Tom had cracked up at last. "Roses," Tom had announced, "has already new contracts and accounts. You don't charge people to read your advertising, do to pay -- some who are interested enough -- but you make more money when it's free." Sales had said slowly, "He's right. He and I have combed through the new accounts one by one, and in ninety per cent of the cases we've found that the decision to swing the business to us was either made or strongly influenced by someone who'd be a client for Roses." The Senator in the center cleared his throat. "You mean to sit there and tell us that Roses is just a sales gimmick for the rest of your business?" "A gimmick," Ed Smithe said, "is when you give away a plastic bathtub toy with a box of breakfast cereal. And that brings us to something else Tom made us realize. Roses not only made these key people familiar with our machines and impressed with them -- it also made the Mark XX a permanent part of their lives. The competition has found that it can talk a long time and not erase that." "And so you have actually offered the service free." "To people who we feel will be in a position to specify computers or computer services as part of their careers -- yes." ber. The Senator said heavily, "You seem to be destroying the fabric of society as a sort of side effect." "Not really." Ed drew a deep breath. "Senator, who's the better farmer, the man who hitches up his tractor and runs it until it breaks or the man who oils and services it and lets it cool off if the engine overheats? And who gets more plowing down in the long run? These men and women who have lived half their lives in loneliness are often thrown off balance temporarily when they finally find someone with whom they can relate, I admit. Sometimes they just want to quit -- to be with their new partner every hour. But eventually they come back -- and when they do they're working for something, not just to get away from something. Right now we're in the trough -- the service has been building rapidly and a majority of our clients are still in the honeymoon stage. But the earlier ones are coming back stronger than ever and I can prove it." He did. The charts and slides helped but the facts really spoke for themselves. Numbers of theses written, numbers of patents granted, earnings of firms whose executive ranks were heavy with early clients. He was no salesman but he could feel the whole chamber swinging over; it thrilled him. When he finished he was wrung out. His shirt was sticking to his chest and his legs felt weak. But ( Please turn to page # ) IF seen it immediately!" He swung around and looked at the icy river that coursed through the cell. "The symptoms are obvious! Copper or zinc! And it wasn't zinc that poisoned him. Come along, Morgan." And with that, he strode ponderously into the stream, pushing his way through the icy water with the determination of a destroyer. Morgan, just stared until the water had reached Mikko's chest, then he said: "Are you crazy, Mikko? You'll freeze your -- " "Come along!" Mikko roared. "Do you think I'm enjoying this?" Morgan paused, took a deep breath, and waded resolutely into the icy stream. After three gasps he finally got his voice back. "Wha -- what am I missing?" "Copper," Mikko said grimly, forging ahead. "That man died of copper poisoning. From the food? Hardly likely. He was ill before he ate any of that nauseating concoction. He drank water. This water." Morgan would have slapped his own head if he'd been less busy. "Oh, hell, yes," he said bitterly. "I bow to a superior brain. Copper sulfate. Iron's higher in the electromotive series. I feel stupid." "I feel cold," Mikko said, reaching out one hand to grasp the grill of iron bars. The water was just above his navel. "Let's test our hypothesis." He stooped down, grasped one of the bars with a powerful hand ( Continued from page #) and pulled. It snapped off some centimeters below the water line. The bars had lost their iron. In the decades that they had been washed by the copper sulfate solution. Elementary chemistry: Metallic iron plus copper sulfate yields metallic copper plus iron sulfate. But the copper that replaces the iron is porous, spongy, and weak. Morgan grasped another bar and jerked it loose, trying to ignore the frigid chill of the water and the fact that both of them would have to duck completely under to get through the opening they were making. "Just think," he growled, "that poor mother died of copper poisoning when there was a way out all the time." Mikko grunted. "He didn't die of copper poisoning; he died of ignorance." his aircar and stood, hands clasped in the small of his back, staring at the Peccavi. "Most suspicious," he decided after a minute's contemplation. "Notice the craft doesn't seem to be insured in the slightest." Richtman nodded his agreement, hopping nervously from foot to foot. "They said a cloud of smoke came up from the ship shortly after they got here but it didn't do any damage. I think it's a trick." "Possible, certainly possible. Although it is unclear exactly what sort of trick. Where is this hole you say appeared in the hull?" The group leader pointed. "About there. Midway up the side. You can just make out the outline with an optical scanner." "Very good. Break out a high explosive grenade and load it into the launcher. Put it on automatic, so if that port opens again it will lob the missile inside." "Do you think they're on to us?" Richtman asked. Goodbit shrugged. "Why take any chances? They seem to be snooping. That is something we cannot afford." "You think they've found anything out yet?" Something moved next to Goodbit's foot. Without taking his eyes off the ship, he squashed it under his heel. "Perhaps they have. They couldn't have completed their snooping or the ship wouldn't be sitting here. We must stop it from leaving." "Yes, but what do you think that black thing that flew in the hatch was? Some sort of spy device?" Goodbit glared at his minion. "You're beginning to babble. Don't get nervous. Whatever it is, it's something that high explosive will destroy. That hatch will open again. When it does, it won't close." T HE outer door of the long-deserted contemplation cell was not locked. It had been smashed long before, its primitive mechanism broken. Morgan Oxbo, using one finger, eased it open. There might -- just might -- be one of the locals on the other side of it. But there wasn't. A set of stone steps led upward to the surface. Obiously, the vine-covered light slits were at ground level, with most of the contemplation cell underground. At the top of the stairs were the remnants of what had once been a wooden, iron-bound door. It, too, had been smashed long ago and had been decaying ever since. A gust of warm air swept down as Morgan swung the door wide. Except for plant life, no living thing was in sight... Two chilled, wet men crept cautiously up the stairway. Morgan peered over the broken, rotting boards, took a long look around, then glared back down at Mikko. "I thought you said this place was five kilometers out of the village," he whispered. "No," Mikko corrected. "I said that' on the planet now inhabited by the Brotherhood the contemplation cell was five kilos away. I am not responsible for changes in design. I take it that we are within the village?" "Apparently. Take a look." IF "Indeed," said Mikko after a full minute of observation. "If my memory of our survey serves me -- and it does -- we are approximately seven hundred and fifty meters from the village square. I suggest we proceed with the utmost caution." "Agreed," Morgan said. He stepped into the alleyway, which was cobblestoned and covered with a mosslike overgrowth. "Frankly," he muttered, "I feel naked without my instruments." "You look it," Mikko growled. "Well, you aren't the prettiest nude I've ever seen, either." "May I say that your figure also would be clearly enhanced by elegant clothing -- or any other method of concealing it. Shall we go?" The street was overgrown with purple-green vegetation that reached, in places, up to their waists. Morgan avoided the thick patches with innate distaste, while Mikko plunged straight forward with a disdain for anything merely vegetable. They both moved silently and stayed beneath the overhang of the aging stone walls as much as possible, keeping vigilant eyes on the roofs. The buildings at the edge of town were spaced well apart, and the two men darted from house to house like a pair of pink mice in a bakery. "Drop," Mikko barked, falling flat and rolling into a thicket of leafy bushes. Morgan dived for the shadow of a time-twisted board fence. They lay motionless while an aircar hissed by some hundred meters to their left and fifty meters over the village. After a minute Morgan eased himself to a kneeling position, staring over the houses beyond which the aircar had disappeared. "Landed in the square, apparently. Fun and games at the ship. I hope Metrak is back." "Damn!" Mikko snarled viciously. "Trouble?" "This bush is full of thorns." Mikko rose gingerly and stepped away from the offending flora. "I'm as full of pricks as a pudding." "Are you all right?" Morgan asked with quick concern. "Unless they were tipped with cyanide, I am," Mikko said. "I've had my shots." "Can you walk?" "Walk, run, or wrestle autochthons," said Mikko. "Pain is merely the entrance fee to a higher level of understanding. Let us proceed." On the block next to the square the houses were pressed close together, separated only by narrow alleys. At that point they left the street and crept through a building to the back lot. Keeping well apart, they headed for the buildings fronting the square. Mikko checked several back doorways until he found one with an open door. The rusty hinges of the closed ones would have screamed their presence. He stepped inside the building and rapidly checked to make sure it was completely deserted, then signaled Morgan. Morgan peered around the musty ground-floor room. "What a mess," he whispered. "And it's damn cold out of the sun. This planet might be warming up but I think there's still a layer of permafrost." "Before we go through to the front," Mikko said, "notice anything peculiar?" Morgan looked more closely. "Someone seems to have ripped off most of the wallboard and even pieces of flooring." "Right," Mikko agreed. "And they've burned them in the fireplace." "Natives trying to keep warm?" Morgan hypothesized. "Not likely. Remember, for them this is a hot spell. Besides, they seem to have removed the ash." "What then? Obviously you've figured it out. Don't hoard infQrmation." "Simple. They eat wood. That's what the natives that clobbered us were probably doing -- having lunch." "Brill -- you might say -- iant. Lead on." Mikko made his way to the front of the structure, Morgan carefully covering the rear. T HE windows facing the square had lost their glass so long ago that even the shards had been blown away or buried under the cake of dried mud covering the floor under the square frames. Mikko kneeled to the side of the hole, keeping carefully out of sight, while Morgan crawled under the opening and slowly lifted his head until his eyes peered out to survey the square. Trespassers W squatted, a silver egg shape, in the center of the field. She was surrounded by the legion of Quindar, who were keeping a respectful distance from her gleaming side. "Tress has spotted us," Morgan whispered. "How can you tell?" "As soon as I stuck my head up she flashed a laser beam into my eyes. Two bright blinks." "Good girl." "I think I'm blind." "Don't be silly, Tress would never be that careless." "Well, I can't see anything. There -- things are starting to come back into focus. Three aircars have landed to our right. A group of men surrounds them. The rest of the men are surrounding Tress. Must be thirty people out there." "Weapons?" Mikko asked. "Indeed. Take a look. We're in the shadow and no one is looking this way anyway." Mikko stuck his head out. "Humph! Rapid-fire slug throwIF ers. Isn't that some kind of projectile weapon by the first aircar?" "I can't tell from here." "Notice," Mikko said, pointing with his chin. "Over, there to the left. Three men behind that wall. What do you think they're doing?" "Sharpshooters," Morgan guessed. "They've got scopes on those guns. Must be hoping for someone to stick his head out of the hatch." "Agreed," Mikko murmured. "They must have decided we're hostile. I wonder how long it took them to reach that conclusion. I'll wager that, with all the attention they're paying to the ship, they wouldn't notice it if two men were to sneak up behind and -- ah -- accost them." "Any particular two men you have in mind?" Morgan asked. He sighed. "I'll get a rock." "We'll have to go around two buildings before coming out -- to make sure we're not seen by the rest of that bunch." "Sneak it is, sir," Morgan agreed. They crept back to the rear of the building and out to the alley. The back door to the building they wanted was rusted shut. "A window?" Morgan suggested. He peered through the nearest glassless rectangle. "No, not this one. Our friendly natives have eaten the floor." "This side alley will do," Mikko decided. He picked up a massive stone and hefted it in one large hand. Morgan settled for a smaller rock. They went silently down the alley to the front and paused, hidden by the corner of the building. About twenty meters in front of them, kneeling behind a large chunk of granite wall, the three sharpshooters were intent on their target. "Sneak?" Morgan asked. "Rush. Twenty meters. Less than three seconds. Ready?" "Ready." They moved away from the building. Morgan noted that they were out of sight of anyone except their targets -- and Tress. "Move!" The two naked men raced into the field, each with a stone gripped in his hand, like a pair of dinnerhunting Neanderthals. One of the sharpshooters must have seen a flicker of motion out of the corner of his eye. "Wha -- " A stone smashed against his head and he was silent. The second never turned. He slid down the rock to crumple on the purple-green moss. The third swiveled around, trying to bring his weapon to bear, mouth open to shout a warning. Mikko grabbed him around the throat and squeezed, cutting off air and blood. In three seconds the man went limp and Mikko lowered him gently to the ground. "Beautiful!" Morgan gasped. "But I think I'm a little out of shape. I need more exercise." "I'll remind you that you said that," Mikko told him. "Put on those coveralls." It was well that the stretch coveralls had plenty of give to them. Morgan found that the Quindar uniform was rather snug; Mikko found it almost impossible. He could feel the strain on the field of the magnetic seam in front. "Never steal from midgets," Morgan whispered. "Can Tress hear us?" "I should say so," Mikko said. "Tress? How say you?" Inside the ship itself, Tress reported to Metrak. One of her paraboloid directional sound pickups heard their voices easily. "Are you ready to let them in and repel boarders?" Metrak asked. "We are on riot alert," Tress said calmly. "No weapons that can breach the hull are within detector distance. Should I increase to full battle alert?" "No," said Metrak after a moment. "Not while Morgan and Mikko are on the outside. Stay on riot control and let them know we are ready for them." "Complying." Outside, fifty meters away, Goodbit listened, his eyes slitted, as he heard the ship's PA system say: Trespassers warned! This unit prepared for any and all attempts to board. Tress picked up Mikko's whisper. "Good girl, Tress. Now listen to what I have to say and relay to Metrak. Ready?" Trespassers warned! "Good. We're going to get in as close as we can with these illfitting uniforms. Be ready to pick us up. If we're spotted, Delta-gas the area and send Metrak down to retrieve our sleeping forms. No use taking chances." Mikko turned to Morgan. "Ready?" he asked, picking up one of the rifles. Morgan grabbed another. "Let's move out!" X steps of his aircar and glared at the ship. "Why did it say that?" "What's that, Mister Goodbit?" Richtman asked. "That last bit of monologue from the ship. Why did it say that?" "I don't know sir." "There's something wrong. Is that grenade launcher set?" "Yes, sir," the group leader reported. "Set and on automatic." Goodbit considered the problem. His men were all spread out around the field. Two of the sharpshooters had left the wall they were behind and were heading toward a fragIF ment of low wall closer to the ship. The situation was altogether too static. Something had to happen; the one thing positive about stalemates was that they ended before expected. Goodbit's rule was simple: if something is going to happen, cause it! Do onto others -- first. He beckoned to Richtman. "Call the base. Tell them to send out a brace of thirty-centimeter rockets. Use the codebook in case that egg is monitoring." Richtman entered the aircar to send the message. The two sharpshooters passed the fragment of wall and closed in on the ship. Goodbit studied the scene, running a small hand over his round, smooth-shaven chin. Something was wrong here. Very wrong. He felt that he had underestimated the situation, that an important fact was right before his eyes but somehow eluding him. The two sharpshooters moved forward and reached the inner circle of men surrounding the ship; something sparked in Goodbit's calculating brain. "You two! Stop where you are!" he shouted through his bullhorn. "Enders! Disarm those two men standing to your left. If they attempt resistance, shoot them!" A sudden high, keening whistle permeated the air. The man Enders ignored the noise coming from the spaceship and turned. And went right on turning, his knees buckling beneath him. He fell in a twisted heap on the ground. Those around him began to fall, including the two men he had been ordered to disarm. As Goodbit saw man after man fall in an everwidening circle that spread away from the egg-shaped craft, a thought flashed through his mind: Delta-gas! Supersonic dispersion! But it was too late for action. The gas had already reached him and Goodbit's brain turned in on itself and ceased to function as a thinking entity. screen with what might have been a leer on his small, black face. "They would all seem to be out. What say you, Tress? Shall I go down and pick up Morgan and Mikko?" "All heartbeats and breathing rates are consistant with unconsciousness," Tress decided. "The gas will have dispersed to the safe level in fifteen seconds." "Perfect. It will take me that long to reach the lock." Metrak trotted into the corridor and leaped the flight of stairs to the airlock landing. The double sphincter dilated. Metrak leaped forward, his intention being to drop to the ground below, haul Mikko and Morgan up the ladder and tell Tress to take off instantly. He started his leap IF just as something outside went The automatic grenade-launcher had fired as soon as the airlock sphincters had dilated. In mid-air, Metrak saw the grenade coming toward him. His ultra-fast reflexes, evolved in an environment that needed them, took over. He twisted in mid-air and grabbed at the missile as it snapped past him. But not even muscle and nerves trained at half a kilogee can be totally accurate. The grenade, bulletfast, touched the tips of Metrak's fingers, snapped upward, bounced off the hard alloy ceiling, and dropped down the stairwell. later, merely added to Metrak's velocity as he shot on out of the airlock. up, Mikko! hfikko!" Something like a pair of pliers was pinching Mikko's arm, shaking him at the same time -- and none too gently. He forced his eyes open and saw double. "I am awake, Professor," he said rather hoarsely. "Control that little hand of yours, my good friend, or you'll leave bruises clear down to the bone." "Oh! I am sorry." The pinch went away and Mikko tried to consolidate his double-image of the overhead into a single image. He didn't quite succeed. He closed his eyes again and said, "Where are we?" "Nearly a parsec away from our takeoff," Metrak said. "Accelerating on flicker drive. How do you feel?" Mikko kept his eyes closed. "In the past twenty hours, I have been given a minor concussion and a dose of Delta-gas. My head hurts, and my body is still numb. I know that I shall be unable to move around for at least half an hour. How do I feel? Just great. How is Morgan?" "Still unconscious. In spite of your greater age, you seem to recover from these things more rapidly. I gave him the antidote first, but he is still asleep." "Any indications that we have been followed?" Mikko asked. "None. Unless an antidote is brought from their main station, the Quindar troops will be unconscious for another hour. But -- " "Will we need to go back?" Mikko interrupted. "For evidence, I mean." "I think not," Metrak said softly. "I hope not. But -- before I say, what have you and Morgan found out?" Mikko opened his eyes, found they still wouldn't track, closed them again. Then, groggily, he told Metrak what had happened in the contemplation cell -- including what they had learned from the prisoner. "It conjugates with the facts I have already reported by inverse space tube," Metrak said. "It is -- how did you call it? -- a shoestring operation. I saw -- Mikko, his mind still rather fuzzy, interrupted again. "We didn't get any recordings. No real evidence. What did you get?" "Good recordings, Mikko. Already sent. We have proved pollution and slavery. And attempted genocide." Mikko's arms and legs tingled horribly as they came slowly out of their paralysis. He kept himself immobile and said, "Forced labor at what, to the natives, is a high "Not exactly," Metrak said. "Though they think they are." Mikko turned his head to look at Metrak and wished he hadn't. He clamped his eyes shut again. "What do you mean?" he asked weakly. "The local people suffer of the heat, that is so," Metrak said, "and they appear to die. They are taken away to a -- a disposal place. Some of them die. Most do not. Those who do not are removed by their kinsmen to a cave -- a series of caves -- in the mountains. They are taken down deep, where the temperature is constant, and they are tenderly placed with others on soft moss. They sleep. They -- how do you say?" Mikko sighed and relaxed, "Estivate, my dear Professor, estivate. They sleep through the hot sum-, mer that comes but once in a hundred millennia -- or whatever it is. Lloyds will be glad to hear that; it takes them off the hook." "How so?" Metrak asked, blinking anthracite eyes. "The autochthons would have to be rescued if this near pass of the A-# would kill them. But it won't. They're used to it -- it's part of their racial cycle. Probably a very old race, you see. Slow mutation rate. Does the A-# passing encourage mutation or does estivation keep them back? Does -- " Mikko brought himself up short, clamping his lips. "Excuse me, Professor; I'm babbling nonsense. Can you -- " from Morgan's compleat. "Our friend seems to be coming around, Professor. How do you feel, Morgan?" "Mizzabul," Morgan said thickly. "Where are we?" "Well away from the scene, I assure you." Mikko paused. "Where are we headed, by the way, Professor?" "Toward Proxit. I assume." "What do you mean; you assume? Tress, where are we headed?" Mikko opened his eyes. There was no answer. He jumped to his feet and fought down a wave of dizziness. He realized that Tress had said no word since he had awakened. And Tress should have answered his question about position in the first place. Metrak folded his two foremost IF limbs over his belly and looked up into Mikko's eyes. "The lady is dead." Mikko turned and stared at the control and instrument console. The battle control computer, normally just another IO device for Tress, had taken over. It was fleeing the scene of battle, as ordered. Morgan lifted his head weakly. "Tress dead? What do you mean?" "It is all my fault," said Metrak. "I take full blame. The hostiles had a missile-thrower aimed at the hatch. It went off automatically when the hatch dilated, even though the man operating it was unconscious. I attempted to deflect the missile as it passed me and only succeeded in knocking it downward. It detonated against the globe of Tress's consciousness. What you call the main processing unit. It was penetrated and destroyed. Tress is no longer operational." Morgan, still weak and dizzy, tried to rise from his compleat, but Mikko shoved him back down with a palm. "Stay here. I'll look." he pounded down the spiral to the deck below. "Well?" Morgan asked after a minute. "She's a mess, all right," came Mikko's voice. "Metrak was right. line memory. That bomb quite literally blew her brains out." Morgan sat upright again. Most of the dizziness had worn off by now. "How about the records?" "I'm checking," Mikko said. Morgan looked carefully at his control panel, then tapped several keys in sequence. A screen lit up, displaying tightly packed orange symbols against a blue background. Metrak?" he asked. "Yes," the little being said. "It was blinking green and you have told me what to do. Did I do wrong?" "No. You did just exactly right. The battle computer was programed to take off and head for Proxit as soon as you hit that key. Very good." "Is there, then, another brain aboard?" "In a way. It's nothing like as complicated and complex as Tress and normally Tress uses it as an input-output deyice. But it can -- and does -- control the ship under combat conditions. It's rather small and it's hidden under heavy armor. Only a Navy ship would normally have such a thing -- and the Trespassers W used to be just that." "But how would it know what to do?" Metrak asked, puzzled. "It wouldn't unless Tress told it." He waved at the bright orangeand-blue display. "She saw that grenade coming in and had nearly three-quarters of a second to react. Just before the explosion, she fed all the takeoff data to battle control and programed it to act as pressed." "Her dying act," Metrak said softly. "She set things up so that we might live." "You might put it that way." Mikko came up the spiral. "Records all okay. All off-line datasets okay except one, which seems to have a slight hairline crack in the crystal. We won't know whether we've lost any important bits until we feed it into another computer on Proxit." "Yes," said Metrak, squeezing his small hands together, "we must get another computer, of course. But there will never be another like Tress. She was a good friend and I loved her." Mikko and Morgan looked at him strangely -- but neither said a word.  at least he had convinced them. The Senator on the left said, "You give the service to -- " "People in private industry, government, or nonprofit institutions who in our judgment may eventually be in a position to give us business. Others are charged a minimal fee. I'm happy to say we've gotten that down quite a bit." The Senator in the center smiled suddenly. It was the charming, slightly lopsided smile he had used on a thousand campaign posters. "If I'm not being impertinent, Mr. Smithe," he asked, "could you tell us your own marital status?" "I have been a widower for almost twenty years." "You haven't used the Roses service yourself?" ( Continued from page #) In a voice that was barely audible he said, "To tell the truth, Senator, I've had to postpone my trip to England because of these hearings. You see, our president wanted to make certain I'd be here to testify. Marcia -- that's her name; she's a librarian in Liverpool -- Marcia and I have written and talked by long-distance telephone but we've not yet been able to meet." "I hope you will be able to soon," the Senator in the center said. "You may step down, Mr. Smithe." He began the long walk back to his seat, glad he hadn't been forced to tell them that it was Marcia who had requested Roses from the company's British subsidiary. That she had found him. It would have sounded too silly.  IF with your lip movements. He spotted it first thing." "Well, I thought I could change my story a little," Dowles #I said somewhat hesitantly, "make myself out to be a cousin of Dowles or something." "Hopeless," Dowles ## said. "We saw what you were doing and timed our entry when we thought you'd be leaving. It was you who gave it away." Whyteborn was still standing transfixed, staring at the spot where his hand went through Dowles ##. "I don't think your treatment is very much better," he said calmly to the image in front of him. "Your right arm is shorter than the left. Not to mention this." He gestured with the hand that was submerged in the other's stomach. ## looked ruefully down at the hand. "That is unavoidable, I'm afraid. This is -- " "You could have moved away from him faster," said ##. "As I was saying, this is merely a projection, not a real object. The light comes from atoms in the air, which we excite by absorption of tachyons. It gives us a way to transmit pictures directly into the past -- your present, of course -- by using your apparatus." "This picture is from the future?" "Yes, but not the sound. For that we must use the nuclear ( Continued from page #) source you assembled here in your laboratory. We modulate the tachyon emissions from the nuclei to produce the effect of a human voice in the room." "Never mind that," said Dowles ##. "Professor Whyteborn, you must stop your experiments. Their effect upon the gold reserves in the Soviet Union in # will be disastrous, leading to -- " "Wait." A third voice broke in, lower than the first two. Another Dowles was forming and rippling slightly on the other side of the table. "Don't listen to them. The British government -- " "It's time you knew the truth," a fourth voice said. A stocky, slightly blue Dowles had appeared by the oscilloscope and was bearing down on Whyteborn. "These others are liars -- " "Stop a moment," Whyteborn said, irritated. "You are all liars, if you'll only stop and think. If you are from the future you must realize there are alternate futures and each of you is from a different one." "Yes," said several of them. Two more Dowles appeared and were hushed by the others. Whyteborn ignored them and went on. "When I began to realize there were too many of those telegraph messages for me to know which to believe, you stepped in with these television pictures or whatever it is that you call them." "We had to," Dowles #I squeaked. "If you keep on with your research you will destroy our past, the past in which tachyons were not discovered. My present will disappear -- and I with it." T HE rest began to shout protests and Whyteborn waved his hands for them to stop. More Dowleses were flickering into being around the laboratory. The room was becoming crowded. "Quiet!" Whyteborn shouted. This served to calm the laboratory slightly. "You must understand -- " "You don't see what tachyons will lead to, Whyteborn!" yelled a new apparition. This most recent edition of Dowles opened his mouth to continue and then saw the other images standing about the laboratory. He turned, looking at all of them, and suddenly looked very surprised. He vanished without ever closing his mouth. "There went one of you who realized the implications of what's happening," Whyteborn said sarcastically. A deformed Dowles with three feet and webbed hands appeared at Whyteborn's elbow. "Thruk! Asram pluddex!" it said. "Have you all forgotten that messages sent into the past can cause paradoxes? Contradictions of cause and effect?" Whyteborn asked. Dowles ## shrugged. The others simply stared. "Practically speaking -- if you people had taken the time to think about it -- a message contains information only if the receiver can believe it." "Believe me! I tell the truth!" three Dowleses said together. They stopped and looked at each other. "Listen, you dunce," one of the nearer Dowleses said, "I don't have the power reserves to send this picture back to you much longer and I don't have time to listen to another of your lectures. Do as I say and -- " "As you say?" Whyteborn said. "I've already had years of your shallow thinking. I put up with it because of Helen. Just -- " "Shallow! You -- " "Look at this, it's a mob," Whyteborn said, shouting louder. "How could I trust you? I don't know which of you will be my future -- you're all equally possible. I don't know your motives -- " "Chauvinist!" cried one of the Dowleses. "Enemy of the workers -- "There's no use trying to confuse me with these false Dowleses, either," Whyteborn said hotly. "I can't be tricked into stopping or continuing my experiments." "He'll kill us all!" screamed Dowles ##. "Murderer!" another cried. "Helen will -- " "Quat thrunk!" IF The shimmering images moved toward Whyteborn angrily, gesturing. Even though he knew they were only projections, Whyteborn stepped back. The nearest figure raised his fist as if to strike. Whyteborn instinctively threw up an arm to ward off the blow and ducked to the side. He slipped. His head struck the edge of the table. There was a solid snapping noise. His body went completely limp before it hit the floor. The images leaped back, startled. "But this didn't happen in my -- " said one, and vanished. "Whyteborn cant die -- " The remaining images looked at each other in surprise. More winked out of existence. Dowles ## started to say something, then shrugged and disappeared. Within a moment they were all gone. A short time later the original and now only Dowles returned to the laboratory with the two graduate students he had gone to find. He discovered Whyteborn's body. The university physician, who was called immediately, stated that Whyteborn had died instantly of a broken neck and severe damage to the spinal cord. No one could be quite sure just how it had happened. The funeral was held two days later. Whytebom's daughter, Helen, was considerably distraught. considerate; he handled most of the details and was of great comfort to her. The paper presenting their discovery of tachyons was soon ready for publication. The death of Whyteborn had left a vacancy in the staff. Dowles soon moved up and acquired a more solid position in the physics department of Skag College. Some time later he became more involved with teaching and ceased to do active research. Some slight trace of caution restrained him, however, and the paper he had written with James Whyteborn was never published.  Inch by precious inch the scooter was moving toward the ship. There was the sound of a faint click and he knew he had made contact -- the instruments indicated a successful docking. He activated the lock control and waited an eternity of ten slow, sticky seconds ( Continued from page #) for the air pressure to equalize. Then the bay doors opened and the scooter slowly slipped into the dark, inviting interior of the ship. The bay doors closed behind him. Eric opened the canopy and dragged Philmore out into the air chamber, taking care to avoid the clumps of jelly that the vehicle had carried into the ship with them. The substance was bubbling with a soft, popping sound as it began to eat away the soft, metal alloy of the chamber's interior Eric placed Philmore in one corner of the chamber and dashed out of the airlock, down the long corridor leading to the main storage area. A plan caught up with his instincts at the moment he stepped into the storage room. He tore into the stacks of boxed tools and supplies. Finally he found what he was looking for: a large box on had been carefully stenciled. He removed the crate from its fastenings and pushed it ahead of him back down the corridor, racing as fast as he could in the zeroG environment, scuffling his feet along the rough gravity pads on the floor. His lungs were throbbing painfully and he felt a scalding sensation in his arms and legs. Philmore had said the thing outside was a cell, Eric thought. The ship was an irritant and all of the organism's destructive power was focused on her. He had to somehow divert its energies away from the ship long enought to break free. The jelly in the airlock had changed to the color of stagnant mud and was no longer active. Eric guessed that the material had died upon exposure to oxygen. Outside, seen through a tiny observation portal, the ooze had transformed itself to a deep, red color, laced with streaks of green and purple. Eric knew he did not have much time. Quickly, he opened the canopy of the scooter and placed the explosives in its interior, set the ignition timer on the crate for ninety seconds, then activated the engines of the scooter, setting them at full thrust. Finally he pressed the launch lever and closed the canopy. Eric managed to drag Philmore out through the lock. The door closed, just as the portals opened and the scooter surged forward and disappeared into the surrounding jelly. Eric turned to Find Philmore standing beside him. "I'm sorry," Philmore said quietly, "I -- " "I know," Eric said quickly. "Follow me. We have to hurry." Seventy-Five seconds. Philmore shuffled down the corridor behind Eric, straining to hear the explanation shouted over the other man's shoulder. Then they were in the central chamber and Eric was at the main control panel. Eric glanced at his watch. They had forty seconds. The computers set for the return voyage, both men raced to a cubicle and strapped themselves into the life-support couches. Eric inserted the hypodermic needle into IF his flesh and waited for the numbing sensation to creep through his body. Fifteen seconds. Eric knew he had to time the injection just right; the blast mechanism on the ship was set for manual control. If he was not awake to press the manual launch button, they would disintegrate in the atmosphere. His vision was going out of focus now and he had to feel for the button with his fingers. Then he felt the shock wave from the scooter as it exploded somewhere outside the ship. Eric pressed the launch button, and he could feel the engines inside the ship throb to life. The shock waves from the explosion crashed against waxy, almost molten. I've got to get back... He sprang down to the body of the dog. But a frantic fumbling with his living "vehicle" proved futile. Apparently a dead creature could not be taken over. Or his heat-seared limbs were beyond proper function. He was just desperately giving the creature its own control once more, hoping its instincts would save the two of them, when he heard a voice. The alien's mind received the sounds as gibberish but his own mind caught the fleeting memory of the sounds and was able to translate them as the voice of one of the crewmen, saying, the side of the ship, and the metal shuddered. Outside the portals the atmosphere changed suddenly to gradually shifted to a dull, yellowish brown. Eric's last sensation was that of motion. The force of the scooter's explosion had momentarily freed them from the grip of the atmosphere. The thrust of the engines was carrying them home, to the Earth. A series of images engulfed Claude Philmore as he too slipped into his drug-induced coma. Green trees, bathed in warm sunlight, waved flowing branches. A mountain of clouds drifted by in the distance.  (Continued from page #) "There it is -- the hound is right over here, on the shore -- " Norcriss felt the alien tense its limbs and knew what the fate of that approaching crew member would be in another instant. Grabbing control once more, he forced himself to scuttle on blistered limbs down the slope and into the waters of the swamp. He swam rapidly away. The animal seemed to have no gills, so he had to keep its head above the surface, where the reflected sunlight was striking the fragile skull of the beast. There was a shadowy area ahead, a dark cave between overhanging, twisted marsh grasses. He managed to get into it, then could only cling weakly to the ragged stem at the deepest part of the gap, hoping he hadn't pushed his host beyond its physical endurance. He was weak, sick and probably dying. He could only cling and hope that Contact would end before the creature did. It seemed hours before that welcome flash of silent lightning released his mind from the dessicated body of the snake-thing, but eventually it came --  -- and he was safely back upon the couch.   curiously as Norcriss rose from the couch, wearily removing the helmet from his skull. "The ecologists were right, but for the wrong reasons, Ensign. The two species they worried about are harmless. The third is a deadly version of a marine creature of Earth. A soft-bodied animal that relies for protection on the castoff shells of mollusks or even crustaceans on the ocean bottom. But in one respect, it's mortally different: it uses living shells to inhabit." By the time he had finished telling Ryder about the snake-creature, the crewmen had gathered up the paraphernalia of the zoologist, stored it back aboard the ship and one of them took upon himself the task of burying the dead hound. When the ship blasted off from Rigel II, Norcriss wrote up his report to his superiors back on Earth with an odd feeling of elation. For the first time in his career as a Learner he found his sympathies lying with the would-be colonists, instead of the animals those colonists must destroy to establish themselves upon a new planet. His recommendation of Rigel II was conditional to someone's developing a competent anti-swampsnake mask for the colonists to wear. Eventually, a poison, a weapon, or a predator would be developed that would wipe every trace of the animal from the face of the planet. Loss of the snakes might result, in turn, in loss of the proper stimulus for the pie-things to tear loose, which would mean no slugthings for the avians to dine upon, which might mean the end of the avians, too. But Norcriss could not bring himself to regret a single extinction. There was something unwholesome about swampland, something that made the natural fauna just as unwholesome to the zoologist. He found he was glad to be instrumental in even a minor destruction of the creatures in such a place. He was still shivery after his period of death and darkness in that initial Contact. An eye for an eye, he told himself, is hardly a scientific attitude, Norcriss. But he signed the recommendation with a flourish.  IF propriate that I step down, leaving the field clear for a new election. Accordingly, gentlemen, I hereby resign the office of President in favor of my vice president, Hoobrik." Amid the clamor that broke out, Clawhammer made his way to confront Retief. "You blundered at last, sir," he murmured in a voice aquiver with rage. "You should have clung to your spurious position long enough to have gotten a head start for the Galactic periphery! I'll see you thrown into a dungeon so deep that your food will have to be lowered to you in pressurized containers! I'll -- " "You'll be on hand to dedicate the statue to our first Ex-President, I ween?" President Hoobrik addressed the Terran envoy. "I think a hundred-foot monument will be appropriate to express the esteem in which we hold our Tsugg emeritus, Dir Tief, eh?" "Why, ah -- " "We'll appreciate your accrediting him as permanent Political Advisor to Oberon," Hoobrik continued. "We'll need him handy to pose." (Continued from page #) "To be sure," Clawhammer gulped. "Now I think it's time we betook ourselves off to more private surroundings. Dir Tief," the President said. "We need to plot party strategy for the by-election." "You're all invited to sample the hospitality of the Plump Sausage" Binkster Druzz spoke up. "Provided I have your promises there'll be no breeching of walls." "Done!" Hoobrik cried heartily. "And by the way, Dir Druzz -- What wouldst think of the idea of a coalition, eh?" "Hmm -- Twilprit sagacity linked with Tsugg bulk might indeed present a formidable ticket," Binkster concurred. "Well, Retief," Magnan said as the party streamed toward the gate, "yours was surely the shortest administration in the annals of representational government. Tell me confidentially -- how in the world did you induce that band of thugs to accept you as their nominee?" "I'm afraid that will have to remain a secret for now," Retief said. "But just wait until I write my memoirs."  Mtw sufescripttont m # dung if  j '  ' addryss raqtrtra s. waaks la practss!   " V' ( Continued from page #) ample. It's marvelous prose. It's full of meaningful images, strung on a fascinating plot. It has its measure of poetry, and its underlying realities are quite patent, but never dull. Above all, it's definitely SF. Somehow, I feel there must be two Jakobssons: the one who grabbed ( eagerly , I hope) Sturgeon's " Sculpture " and the other one who passed ( reluctantly , I hope ) Plachta's " Festival As far as Bodes strip is concerned, well... it's not a matter of how much sex there's in it, or how much violence. It's a matter of " redeeming literary value," to paraphrase you know who. After scanning Bodes Bump ( pun intended) my Redeem-o-meter registers a cold Zero. Yes, he can draw. The question is, what is he going to do with his talent? No one belongs under a camel's foot, least of all our Editor. And, while I have never tried it, I imagine it must be quite a task attempting to balance a magazine's contents so that it satisfies and appeals to a majority of readers. I just don't happen to think that either Plachta or Bode are essential to that task. Cordially, Victor Porguen Stamford, Connecticut Dear Mr. Jakobs son; Like a knife in the chest; the pain unbearable. What has been done to our magazine? What has happened to our all the years of success and three grand Hugos. Why? How could the world's best science-fiction magazine be lowered to such a position? Is there no reconsideration, no control, no possibility of bringing our magazine back twelve times a year? Is this the price we readers pay to issues of the great IF a year? I wonder... Sincerely, Thomas R. Harper Murfreesboro, Tennessee Dear Mr. Jakobsson, I just received my MayJune IF in the mail and I noticed that you have gone bi-monthly. Why? The only answer that I can supply to this question ey that IF will have to go bi-monthly monthly). If this is true then you should have at least told the readers of your magazine about it, or better yet, have asked us whether or not we would rather have two monthly magazines or #(?) bi-monthly ones. I would have said two bi-monthly mags. Again, you should have told the readers about the change in format. Or do the readers IF are now the best SF magazines published why not stay with a winner? I will not threaten to discontinue subscribing to and reading your magazines because I like reading Science Fiction too much for that. Also the loss of money would not help you go monthly. Secondly, I ask you please tell us something about this change in format. How long will IF be bi-monthly? Will IF monthly? Will a bi-monthly IF be larger? There are many question which I hope that you will answer in the next issue. Sincerely, Bill A ndresen Malibu, California with IF s going bimonthly. We're increasing the size of all four publications and experimenting on methods of putting together the best possible magazines -- this has to do with availability of top material, editorially. Both If and Galaxy are on the upswing in sales since the change of ownership a little more than a year ago and may soon again go monthly. Dear Mr. Jakobosson: The " new Silverberg" continues to amaze me. "The Reality Trip " is a long inward look into the characters and the times. Good to see Avram Davidson back in the sf magazines with " Zon " (and "Zon" has a strength and beauty unmatched in all the other stories in the May-June IF. I enjoy Jack Gaughans work in both your publications, but I feel it's high time you let other good exceptinal artists in. Peace, Bill Wolfenbarger Neosho, Missouri Dear Mr. Jakobs son: "Zon" impressed me as being the first five chapters of a tight, well-structured novel. I must confess ignorance as to Mr. Davidson s previous accomplishments, but I do recognize the blend of skill and imagination required of a good science-fiction writer. It is unfortunate that "Zon" is destined to remain unfinished, the potential is there. I am glad you chose to publish these few chapters, for they stand well alone on their own merit. Grant Moyer Burlington, Vermont We were particularly pleased to have after a too-many-year absence. "Zon," as you have guessed is part of a larger work in progress. We hope to be able to bring you the rest of it. Dear Sir: As this is the first time l have written to you, I would like to say that IF is the best magazine going, and it should have won the Hugo award hands down. One complaint, though ( just a small one), I would like to see more stories by the worlds best sf writer Arthur C. Clarke, as you have not had one of his stories for ages. "By the Falls," by Harry Harrison was one of the best stories I have read. Yours faithfully, Malcolm Wall Lancaster, England We, too, would like to see more stories from Arthur C. Clarke (you did catch his "Neutron Tide," in the keep hounding him to write. Trouble is for the last five years he has been busy with #I , first writing it and more recently promoting the film around the world. Last time we saw Arthur, he was talking about getting back to his first love -- sf. So, let's hope... Dear Mr. Jakobs son: The best single thing you've done since becoming editor was establishing Jack Gaughan as an assistant director. Galaxy and If have never looked better, and the illustrations are Gaughan at his best. Many would disagree, but I think that you should use his illustrations almost exclusively, as you have been doing. Besides providing the best of art, it gives the magazines a distinctive style. Will that be your policy from now on? Best of luck. Robert E. Tiefenwerth Baltimore, Md. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I have to write to protest the lack of quality in some of the stories in your magazine. The worst issue the January, #, issue with two sickeningly soupy stories on the same subject: "If a Man Answers," by Richard Wilson and "This One," by James Sallis. No wonder your rating fell; I wonder how you got the prize twice in a row anyway. Only Frank Herbert's "great" ( as you say) serial and "O Kind Master " ( even with it's unlikely ending ) partly saved the day. Hopefully yours, Edwin Todd Richmond, Virginia For the record, received the Hugo three years in succession. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: IF ## was not one of your better issues: "Reality Trip" -- one of the good stories -- was an interesting weirdy; " Piecemakers" -- I like Laumer, but Vm sick of Retief; "Zon " -- okay till the end, which was quite poor unless this is the first of a series; "Misspelled Magician" -- very funny and very good so far; "Troubleshooter" -- interesting idea, poor story; " Human Element" -- pure cliche; "Nightblooming Saurian" -- ditto cliche. The cover was one of the few bits of Gaughan artwork I liked. I prefer the styles of Barr and Fabian. Sincerely, Kenneth Scher Far Rockaway, New York Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Mr. Hval's letter (May-June, #) caught my interest for two reasons: Canadian readers of SF have up until now been as scarce as moon rocks, and his request opens the possibility of experimentation. In answer (?) to his questions I suggest the following ideas. First, large meetings can be unwieldy and can get hung up in organizational problems. Thus I suggest setting up small discussion groups .which have a less formal atmosphere and lend to freer discussion. The goal of such groups would be to produce a " think-tank " mood where the ideas presented in SF could be discussed, on the basis of feasibility and desirability. While these ideas are being discussed the question could be posed as to whether or not anything can be done to encourage or prevent such events happening. If the mem bers of a group or groups decide they can do something on their own or with the entire organization the transition from "think-tank" to " DOtank" could offer not only an excuse for such an organization, but a valid reason by getting people involved in making Science Fiction an actual Fact. Sincerely, Brian Carroll Winnipeg, Manitoba Learn the seven warning signals of cancer, You'll be in good company. #. Unusual bleeding or discharge. #. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. #. A sore that does not heal. #. Change in bowel or bladder habits. #. Hoarseness or cough. #. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. #. Change in size or color of a wart or mole. If a signal lasts longer than two weeks, see your doctor without delay. And be sure to have a health checkup once a year, no matter how well you may feel. Fight Cancer with a checkup and a check American Cancer Society T the world of the future... #. Tim for Tomorrow. Novell by Silverberg. Zerlazny. Blish. Foreword by Arthur C. Clarke. Pub. ed. # Take any f I #I Accept only lour book for Only WCOmlnjyMr. Edited by Anthony Boucher #. A giant two-volume collection of great science fiction reading. Over # pages of exciting fiction -- four full-length novels, twelve novelettes, eight short stories by Ray Bradbury. Robert A. Helnleln. A. E. van Vogt. Poul Anderson. Arthur C. Clarke. Theodore #turgeon. Alfred Bester. and a dozen more. Counts as I choice. Pub. ed. # counts as only a single choice! How the Clisb works: Each month it offers a really superb new science fact or fiction book at a fraction of its regular price. Even though these books sell for #, # and more in their original editions. Club members get them for only # each-in special full-length, hard-cover editions-unless you select an extra-value book at slightly higher price. And the Club tells you in advance what each monthly selection will be. During your trial membership, you agree to take as few as four books in the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. No-Risk Guarantee: If not delighted with introductory #-book shipment, return books within # days to cancel membership. Otherwise you will be enrolled in the Club as a Trial Member. Mail coupon today to Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, New York # Please accept my application for membership and rush the I I # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me I # plus a modest shipping and handling charge for all I I . three. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin. Things I to Come, which describes coming selections. If I do not i I wish to receive the monthly selection or prefer an alter I nate. I simply give instructions on the form provided. For , U#  LHl H aij each book I accept. I pay #, plus shipping and hanr Darkness. by dling. Occasional extra-value selections are priced slightly I Ursui k. LcGuin. higher. I need take only # books in the coming year and I uS'"e, ( v toMd may resign any time thereafter. I Nebula Ajrdin#.I Stax The Bod; Electric! by Ray Bradbury. # maior pieces Bradbury's first collection in five years. Pub. ed. S#.t# ductory package. I may return it in # days and memberI ship will be canceled. I will owe nothing. Print Name. City... State. Zip If under #. parent must sign here Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. #-S#  TW Fo Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. tfJ#  Pub.ed Sli-#.   #. Stand on ZanriMg. , bar, by John Bruncl ner. Life inU.S. # #.! Strange Laud, by Robert A. Heinlein. He knew the Martian love secretand it spelled his doom . Pub. ed . .# Science Fiction #, ed. by Wolleart from now. hom A Carr, l-of' a-kind stories by Leiber. Silverberg. Niven. # others. ner. # pages. Pub. ed. .# #. Childhood's End, by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. "Wildly fantastic!" -- Atlantic. Pub. ed. # . Nigbtfal Other Stories, by Isaac Asimov. # probing tales by this best-selling science Action author. Pub. ed. # #. #: A Space Odyssey, by Arthur Clarke. # men and computer trigger cosmic "booby trap". Pub.ed. # IS. I viont. Anthology of # original stories never before in  #. Beyond the Beyond, by Poul Anderson. # novellas by Hugo Award winner. About scientists. pirates, "loners." Note: Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library.  nebishes threaten again in Song of Kaia complete novel in this issue The Last Time Around Monarch RI the magazini of alternatives to figure out how much you hate missing the best story of your favorite writer or the major part of a great novel. But we can't compute a formula to stock every newsstand in the country with enough copies of our popular magazines to satisfy every reader. So we sometimes miss you and you miss us -- and that's a double tragedy. It doesn't take a genius to handle it, either. All it takes is a minute of your time, for which we want to repay you with a handsome saving over the newsstand price. Just fill in the coupon -- or write the information on a piece of plain paper -- and mail it to us. Then you'll be sure instead of sorry. rate. I enclose my check or money order for:  # issues of each #  # issues of each #  # issues of each # Name Zip Code... Prices outside the Western Hemisphere add # per # Issues for postage Please check whether  new or  renewal Address City  State m Novmbr-Dcnibr, # Vel. #, No. # Umi #I f#er Jakobsson, Editor Lester del key. Feature Editor JudyLynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Franc #. Boggeri, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director #. C. Murphy, Subscription Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director Distributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. and Readers write -- and wrong! Dear Editor, I vay but a mere stripling when  began reading science fiction.  broke in with Amazing, Astounding, Doc Savage and The Shadow. I have been reading SF for over thirty-five years now.  consider myself sufficiently proficient at this and decided to branch into writing sf. I have been writing the stuff for several years.  am probably the oldest of the "new wave" or maybe the newest of the "old wave" or something like that. At any rate, I was pleased at your statement a while ago in reference to unpublished writers. I have looked (unsuccessfully) for the issue that contained these remarks. But if memory serves me correctly, you reaffirmed tinue publishing us neophytes and that you would even improve upon the old ways. This was some time ago and I have seen no evidence of an improvement or a continuance of the old policy. Tell me and the other hungry, struggling young authors that succor is on the way; that you intend to reinstitute the old ways. In general, I have enjoyed the magazines since you have assumed control. Specifically, I envied the ability of Dannie Flachta to write a story like "The Festival." The writing and the artwork reinforced each other. A " symbiosis" like this is rare and I hope you don't spoil it by overuse of the device. John Kapcio Utica, New York Pick up the current issue of Galaxy at your newsst-and -- read Pihon Fall, by Michael Bishop. It's a fine first story by a new writer. I have also bought Michael's second story -- look for it in a forthcoming issue of Worlds of Fantasy. The Winter issue of Worlds of Tomorrow, also now on the stands, features Love Story, Gary K. Wolfs first publication, and scheduled for the following issue is Joey, by (Mrs.) F. A. Davis. "Firsts" are also scheduled for upcoming issues of If. Dear Sir: I am writing to express my disappointment in your choice of Goodbye Amanda Jean for the July' issue of Galaxy. In the same issue, Heinlein deals with the sort of violence described in Miss Shore's story; Feiffer handles it in his play, "Little Murders." If it can be dealt  with so effectively, why publish a story which has nothing but its shock value to recommend it? Thank you for listening. Lois A . Lampson I thought Goodbye, Amanda Jean gave more than shock value. It struck m as expressing, with the directness and clarity of a mathematical formula, some of the cannibalistic aspects of our society and mores. IF These mat minds were Rosicriciaus Isaac Newton Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. copy pf 'The Mastery of Life" -- ligatioa A nonprofit organization. Address: Scribe N.S.A. San Jose, (California #, U.S.A. Please send me the ree book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. Complex you are. Earth Society Simple am , an aborigine One of the In-Betweens. Your tubeways and spirals, everywhere. Indigenous biota, long gone from there. I hunger for your greens. -- Buckeye song I H igh on a frozen mountain a naked, hirsute aborigine stirred in his nest. The only name he knew was Kaia, a name given to him by his first mate; in her language it meant -- The Male. His metabolic clock still showed residual hibernation time remaining, but hunger called. Kaia's feedings had been scanty during the warm season, and now his winter sleep was being interrupted by protein starvation -- acute amino-acid deficiency. Enzyme systems faltered, screamed and tried alternate pathways. Reluctantly he left the dark warmth of his nest and crawled toward the pale glow of the cavemouth. Icy stones numbed his hands and knees. He fingered the translucent, white crust that sealed him in. It was still thick and hard. The snow line had not yet receded up the mountain. Outside he could only expect the white death. Shivering, he returned to his nest and wrapped a tattered cetacean hide around his bony shoulders. His metabolic furnace sputtered without fuel. The coldness of death crept into his fingers and toes. Desperate, he sorted through the debris at the bottom of his nest, sucking on long bones for the rusty grit in the tubular marrow cavities, chewing dry fruit pits for a few coarse, bland lignen fibers and licking cold mussel shells for stringy tags. Nothing. The cold continued to close in. He didn't need the ferrous ions in the marrow dust and his efforts had produced little else. Finally his grinding molars cracked open a fruit pit releasing a meaty seed so bitter than it puckered his parotid. He spat out the shells and chewed the meat. The starch promised to rekindle his furnace. Gathering a handful of pits he carried them into the light of the cave mouth and cracked them open with a stone -- munching the seeds with swallows of snow. When the resinous, starchy mulch coated his rugae and quieted his hunger pangs, Kaia burrowed back under the hides and returned to his torpid state. F illy lived at the base of the mountain. Her organs covered the foothills and her green skin covered her organs. She was a shaftcity, one of the cyber-conduit units of Earth Society. Her fifty thousand hive citizens depended on her sunlit skin for its calories and on the mountain's snow cap for its meltwater. Filly did her best to see IF that her dwellers thrived. And thrive they did, for their warm, soft bodies bulged the census quota and overflowed into the Big ES -- the Earth Society that coated the land masses of the planet with a labyrinth of shaftcities like Filly. T he axis tilted. Longer, warmer days melted back the snowcap and thawed Kaia's niche. The crust dripped for a time, then sagged and fell into the cave exposing his nest to the welcome glare of sunlight. He stretched and sat up, squinting. After wrapping on leggings and loincloth he crawled cautiously outside where he stood in a wet cool breeze, silhouetted against a bright gray and white mosaic of stone and snow. The sun warmed his hairy neck and shoulders. For a long, pensive moment he studied the horizon. Hunger gnawed. Only an occasional agromech moved, buglike, in a distant valley. No huntercrafts. Calories beckoned from below -- the twinkling, green filigree of Filly's plankton towers. Kaia started down the crag. His ridged, hyperkeratotic palms and soles gripped the granular stone surely and lowered him the several thousand vertical feet into a richer, warmer atmosphere. He avoided the exposed upper slopes of Filly's skin and followed a splashing stream into a more sheltered valley where he crept into the forest of plankton towers. The trunklike conduits glowed with an inner light of # nanometers which filtered greenishly through carotenoids and phycobilins. They rose, arborizing freely, to form the sunlit tubule canopy high overhead. The noisy approach of a cumbersome agromech sent him scurrying deeper into the syntheforest. After it passed he headed for the herb gardens. Filly noticed clandestine movement on her skin. Footsteps itched. She moaned when Kaia opened a tubule and began to suck plankton. Before she could sphincter down the leak the rich amino acids of the zooplankton were fueling his starving enzyme systems. Refreshed, he munched his way across rows of chickpea, soybean and thyme. Filly screamed when he pulled off a stalk of fennel. Her sorrow traveled down the #-mile-long nerve fiber to Hunter Control. Sucker in my garden. Varmint on my skin... V AL sat at the console in Hunter Control. He was monitor on duty. He wore the neat, camouflaged tunic with the Sagittarius emblem that marked him as one of the hunter caste. A thin, sallow youth, he had just recently polarized his gender and his body was slow to respond. He was still a "soft male." When Filly's buckeye sighting appeared on the screen Val glanced at the wall map. Two huntercraft were out on routine patrol. One suddenly changed course and headed for Filly's quadrant. "Foxhound Nine answering call," said the craft. Val said, "It looks like the buckeye of Filly's mountain is back. He's been sighted many times before, but has always managed to disappear. You'd better put out a hunter when you get there even if the sensors run blank. Might as well try to find his hiding place. He's a tricky one." Foxhound readied the hunter. Hypnoconditioning was boostered, and the neck titrator pumped a priming dose of speed into his veins. Harness checked. Bow and arrows issued. in tall grain while he savored aromatic juices of fennel. The rich sharp flavors jolted his pristine taste buds and stirred up violent parasympathetic storms. Copious digestive juices flowed. Peristalsis gurgled. As soon as his abdomen protruded comfortably he became more selective, choosing only the most succulent morsels. He was standing in shoulder deep kale when he heard the drone of the approaching huntercraft. He immediately dropped to his knees and crawled off in a zigzag course. The huntercraft followed easily and passed directly over him. He looked up to see the flat-bottomed fuselage hovering over an open cabbage patch. Its optics focused right on him. Its belly opened and the fat, camouflaged hunter dropped out, swinging on a cable harness. Kaia saw the deadly longbow. The hunter's dark glasses gave his pasty face a skull-like appearance. Fear gripped the aborigine's chest. He curled up and went cold. The hunter stumbled in the soft plants, clumsy feet crushing calories. The harness released him. He blinked around at the unfamiliar shapes. He had never been Outside before. The helmet's tinted goggles protected him from the wild colors and coveralls shielded against actinic radiations. This was sunlight, and his pigment-poor protoplasm could be quickly damaged. His detector indicated several heat sourcesin the vicinity. Their size, shape and relative temperature could be calculated from the readout, but the hunter's drugfogged brain pushed him into a tracking frenzy. He nocked his arrow and blundered off through the vegetable tangle toward an infrared point. A few moments later he was standing before Filly's exhaust louvers. Underfoot the plants had been browned and stunted by the city's warm, fetid breath. His glasses clouded in the condensate. Gasping for breath he stumbled back and sat down. Foxhound IX watched Kaia's image fade until it matched the surrounding vegetables. IF "Our quarry has died," reported the craft. Val had seen the buckeye fade, but he remained skeptical. "The hunter hasn't yet had a shot at it." Shock, fear or heart attack could have finished the buckeye but who could be sure? "Can't you get that hunter back to examine the body?" "He's in the tracking frenzy. I won't be able to break into his fugue state until after he makes his kill. His titrator is set on seventytwo hours." Val scowled through the communicator. "Well, you can't put down another hunter or they'd probably end up hunting each other. Let the hunt continue. If that buckeye is alive he may come out of hiding." Foxhound returned to routine patrol in the vast gardens of the flats. Val studied the screens for another hour before stretching out on his cot for the midshift rest. T welve hours later the hunter began to slow down. He was standing, blurry-eyed, on the bank above Filly's effluent grating, watching the warm, uriniferous fluids swirl off into the canal system. A cloud of gnats hung in the vapors around his head. During the night he had examined every heat source on Filly's skin. All had been the city's own appendages. Now the hunter dozed on his feet. A jolt of Speed was pumped into his jugular. His eyes opened wide but unfocused. His detector indicated a warm body moving along the bank of the canal. He nocked his arrow and crept off, tracking an earlymorning agromech on its way to the fields. slowly. The long hours of silence had relaxed his hibernation reflex and his metabolism reheated. He peered from the tall grain. An orange dawn. This was day two for the hunter. There was still danger. Kaia dashed into an orchard of sweet-thing trees and picked one of the tart juicy fruits. He listened. Filly's gratings and louvers trembled. A distant agromech growled at some irritant in the soil. No hovercraft. Kaia began to run through the trees. He followed the orchard for several miles, leaving Filly's skin and moving onto the neighboring city's cultivated surface. He knew he must put as many miles as possible between himself and the hunter. For the next two days he would be tracked. He munched on the sweet-thing and trotted toward the canal. The first arrow kicked him in the right femur, pinning his loincloth to his upper thigh. The impact bent him over and threw him down onto the grassy bank. He saw the hunter approaching from below the bank. A second arrow was being set to the bowstring. Kaia tugged on the shaft. Bloody shreds of loincloth moved deep in the wound but the broad hunting barbs held firm in the quadriceps muscles. He stumbled to his feet and tried to run but the three-foot shaft vibrated and grated painfully against deep nerves and bone chips. The second arrow kicked him under the right shoulder blade. It thrust painlessly through the soft tissues of his right lung. He looked down and saw the wet, red barbs protruding oddly from the middle of his chest. Grass hit him in the face. Val went down to the garage to watch Foxhound IX come in. The faithful old machine nodded to him as it settled into its bay. Service robots stood by while Mediattendants rushed up to check on the hunters. Three stretchers were carried out. "All three came back -- a good hunt," said Val. Foxhound answered, "Not too bad. Took a trophy near Filly's mountain -- a nice young buck." Val watched the attendants work on the hunters. Two seemed strong enough, just dazed; probably just delayed effects of their Molecular Reward. The third was almost dead. They hooked him to life support and his face pinked up a little. "What's his problem?" Val asked coldly. "Just exhaustion. He was the one who took the trophy. Was tracking for a bit over twenty-four hours. He'll be fine in a few days," said the attendant, watching the life-support console strapped to the hunter's chest. The stretchers were carried off. Val crawled into Foxhound's cabin. It was a mess. Rubbish and offal filled the corners. Stains marred the fittings. A trophy cube sat in the freeze-drier. He picked it up. "Might as well take this on back to Hunter Control till the attendants bring him around. Nice trophy. Did you see him take it?" "No," said Foxhound. "But the carcass was stretched out on a canal bank when I picked up the hunter. Like I said before -- a nice young buck. You'll see him when you review the optic records. I've already given the coordinates to Sampler and the sweeper robot. Should have the site cleaned up later today." Val nodded and carried the trophy back to his office. shaft floor, elbowing his way around in the dense crowd, searching for a jumper. Steady streams of citizens flowed -- some formed stationary queues before the sluggish dispensers. Feeling something irregular underfoot. Sampler shouted for more working space. "Back up numbdumbs," he said and waved the needle-point aspirator gun menacingly. The crowd parted. What Sampler saw unnerved him a little. The pulped body of the jumpersuicide wore a retirement tunic. The bone displacement indicated a fall of between one hundred and three hundred feet. Half a day under the apathetic crowd had pressed out most of the body fluids. Sampler pulled the sensor cord out of his belt analyzer, shrugged and replaced it. Useless to test this one. He held up the gun and set the drum on brain. Then he pointed the needle at the crepitant skull and squeezed the trigger. The gun jumped and the first vial turned gray. Vial two, heart. Needle to chest. Jump. Red vial. Vial three, lungs. He moved quickly through the needle sampling until the eight vials were full. Several times the crowd closed in on him and he had to struggle to keep from being trampled. As he moved away upspiral he clicked out the full drum and reloaded his gun with empties. A bulky sweeper moved past him to suck up the jumper. Near the top of the spiral the sweeper caught up with him. Its bag bulged with a hundred pounds of remains. "Better empty yourself," said Sampler. "You have a pickup Outside." While the machine vomited down a digester chute Sampler rested against the spiral railing. IF Below he saw the salt-and-pepper crowd. He and the sweeper moved on upspiral. In the garage of the shaftcap Sampler set his gun in the sweeper's appendage and tested the remote controls on one of the garage wall units. Through the screen he saw with the sweeper's optics and felt with the sweeper's sensors. A few agromechs and repair robots gathered around -- curious. "Any time you're ready," he said. The garage door opened and the soft-wheeled sweeper rolled out into the bright, sunlit garden with its variety of colors and bizarre vegetable shapes. II Hunter Control and lowered his heavy frame carefully into his seat. His console blinked at him and filled out a flimsy printout to bring him up to date. Ignoring it, he arranged the folds of his tunic over his expansive belly and reached under the seat for his sack of split bamboo. He lowered his weaving into a pot of warm water to soften it and sipped on his high calorie drink while he waited. Behind him Val snored on his cot. Unexpectedly the screen focused on the anxious face of Sampler in the garage. "Monitor on duty?" asked the face. Old Walter glanced at Val's cot and whispered: "M.O.D. here. What is it?" The Sampler held up a redbrown arrow and a handful of purple, jelly-like clots and said, "The carcass is gone." Walter pursed his fat lips and set down his weaving. Casually he picked up the flimsy to see what carcass they were talking about. Sampler continued to jump around nervously. Val sat up to hear the shaking report continue. "All the sweeper found were these two arrows and the clots. One arrow is broken. There was no sign of -- " Val's whining voice cut in: "Now what went wrong? Do I have to do everything myself?" He jumped off his cot and rushed angrily to his console. Walter shook his head slowly. Polarization of his gender had certainly made Val irritable. "Those are blood clots?" Val challenged. Sampler looked at the inch-thick gobs of purple-red jelly. They looked nothing like the watery pink stains around jumpers. Walter, who had finished the flimsy, answered Val. "Blood clots? Could be. Have him send a vial of the stuff down for analysis. You never know what you'll find if you start examining these buckeyes. Any idea of what happened to the carctiss?" Sampler shook his head. Val asked insultingly, "Are you sure you were in the right area?" "Had the optics of the kill to go by. Found the arrows and blood. Yes, Fm sure," said Sampler. "Then I suppose he just got up and walked off -- or something came out of the canal and ate him?" Val turned off his screen abruptly. Walter tried to smile at the Sampler. "Just send us a vial of clot -- and -- thanks a lot." He signed off and adjusted his tentlike tunic. "Might as well go over those optic records ourselves, Val. Maybe the wounds weren't so bad." Later the tech came up from the lab with the trophy cube and vial. They all reviewed the optics of the kill. The tech said, "We've projected these wounds into our #-D mannequins and they look fatal. The arrow in the chest entered off to the right. It crossed the hilum of the right lung where most of the big vessels are. Then it came out the sternum. Without immediate surgery he should bleed out quickly -- in less than an hour probably. The torn lung would collapse also -- suffocation. The thigh wound doesn't seem to bleed much in the records. Probably missed the femoral artery. But it is a solid hit, and any attempt to pull out the barbs would result in significant soft-tissue damage. No, gentlemen. Your buckeye did not get up and walk away." "I suppose that still leaves the meat-eaters. The cetaceans are supposed to be plant-eaters -- but there is always the possibility of an aquatic buckeye. They're known cannibals," said old Walter. "Did you learn anything from the trophy?" The tech glanced at his printout. "Well the absence of Barr bodies and the presence of carotenoids fit with a buckeye male. Barr bodies indicate the female X chromosome and the carotenoids raw vegetable diet -- you know. We were able to reconstitute some blood from the vessels in the trophy. Freeze-drying preserves it quite well. We kept it from clotting by oxalating off the calcium. The clotting times for the trophy serum were twice as fast as for our standard citizen. When we added calcium it clotted in a hundred and fifty seconds. You know that our normals are around four hundred seconds." "The buckeye must have been very sick," said Val. "Yes. His hemoglobin, as near as we can tell, was three times normal." Walter picked up his wickerwork and watched the replay of the carried the victim closer at a smooth trot. Bright red blood flowed from the first wound. Walter studied the buckeye's wildIF eyed, vigorous efforts to remove the arrow and run. "He doesn't seem very weak," Walter suggested. "No, he doesn't," admitted the tech. "But for these results to be anywhere near normal -- he'd almost have to be an entirely different species." "Well, isn't he?" Val asked sharply. The tech smiled and began to quote from the ESbook: " 'Citizens have many biped ancestors in the evolutionary tree. The taxonomy of these fossil hominids is still controversial. Surface dwellers such as Homo leakeyi and Homo sapiens may not have been in the main stream of evolution, for their collective efforts were limited.' " "And the buckeyes?" asked Val. "Just living fossil hominids," said the tech. "The species designation is hard to justify for a life form that is extinct." "But they're not extinct. We just killed one last night." Walter smiled. "I think what the tech means -- and what the ESbook teaches -- is that the buckeye has been effectively displaced. Like most of the other useless life forms on the planet, he has been crowded out by the more efficient Big ES. There may be a few random throwbacks occurring in those citizens who carry the defective gene -- but not in significant numbers. Certainly not enough to reproduce themselves effectively." "Living fossils," said Val. "Too bad we can't spare calories and quarters for a zoo. I'd like to study one." Walter returned to his weaving saying, "Impossible. From what I understand they need ten or twenty times the living quarters of a citizen. Anyway, they take badly to captivity. If you lock them up they die or escape." Val and the tech looked at each other, puzzled. "Mind if I take the trophy back to the lab? There a few more comparisons I'd like to make," said the tech. "Go ahead," Val said absently. reflex hibernation. He had tried several times before, but the pains set off alarms that triggered the reflex and cooled him again. He remembered a glimpse of the longhaired coweye pressing wooden pegs into his thigh wound to widen the wound and engage the barbs so that the arrow could be withdrawn. Her soft face and bright eyes lingered in his cooling memory molecules as he slept. She had snapped off the arrow head protruding from his sternum and had pulled out the shaft. She had also tended his other injuries, caused by the hunter's trophy hunger. The wounds did not bleed. To carry his sinewy body into the canal and float it -- face up -- several miles to her little nest in the weedy bank had been simple. She bathed and dressed the wounds to lessen the pains and untrigger his hibernation. When he opened his eyes she forced broth into him -- rich mussel meat and barley. He would need all his strength very quickly, for she was in her follicular phase. She needed a mate. For three weeks she fed him hot food and warmed him with her body at night -- but he had not recovered enough to mate. During the fourth week she went luteal and left him. He ate grains and gained strength from the sun -- always remaining below the silhouette of the bank. In two weeks she returned and it was hot food and warm nights again until her ovaries completed another cycle. They mated in their sixth week. She drove him out during the seventh. For several months Hunter Control was very quiet. Thousands of square miles of Orange Sector gardens flourished, were harvested and flourished again without a single buckeye sighting. An occasional pile of chewed and charred bones was reported along the canals. Huntercraft patroled and put out hunters on possible spoor -- and found nothing. "You'd think with Jupiter in Sagittarius we'd have better hunting," Val said in one of his rare light moments. Walter frowned. "Just joking," Val said. After a few minutes of strained silence Walter relaxed and said, "I know. But it isn't very funny. I've been here in Hunter Control ten years. Those buckeyes must watch the planets pretty closely. They seem to know crop and weather cycles better than we do. They literally sleep under the stars. If Jupiter in Sagittarius is good for the hunter it is obviously bad for the hunted. That may be exactly why we haven't had any sightings. They're in hiding." "If that's true we might as well put Hunter Control on standby and do something useful. Jupiter is going to be there for quite a while." Hunter Control's meek brain argued, "But astrology is not logical. Standby isn't warranted." "You're just afraid of being lonely," said Walter. "It doesn't matter if it is illogical. If the buckeyes follow it and stay in hiding we might as well use the time to overhaul the huntercraft. You won't be alone. Tinkers will be in the garage. You can even stay on full alert if you prefer." "I prefer," said the meek. "While your at it you might as well keep an eye on the lesser planets for a favorable aspect that might bring out the buckeyes. Then we might be able to get the jump on them." At the end of the shift Walter returned to his family-#. He invited IF Val with the usual: "We can always use an extra soul in the meld." Val declined. "Thanks -- but I'm going between walls on a rat hunt. I'll save you some flavored calories if the catch is good." They went their separate ways. Val had strong feelings about the meld. Rubbing souls with anyone irritated him. He clashed with polarized males and females and the neuters were just too bland to waste time with. Walter, on the other hand, enjoyed his family-#. He accepted ritual hugs from female Bitter and talked to Jo Jo and Busch about their jobs in the garage. Neutral Arthur painted murals on their walls and arranged family entertainment. V AL returned to his cubicle and took his rat-hunting gear out of his locker. The coveralls, soft shoes and heavy gloves were well worn. He had taken many extra calories from the dark spaces between the city's organs. He changed the filters in the dust mask and checked the power in the head lamp. Picking up the anoxic gas bag he started for the mid level of the spiral. Light from the access grating guided him for a while. The first thing he saw was a ring of four dry skeletons -- "mushrooms" whose serotonin metabolism had been displaced by Molecular Reward. "Four mushrooms -- level thirtyfive," he said into his wrist communicator. The city answered: "Where?" Val tapped the flat beam with his foot. Solid. "A weight-bearing strut," he said. "But they've skeletonized. Sampling isn't indicated." He moved on to other tubular and spherical structures. Some hollow and flexible. Others warm and pulsing with fluids. All were caked with thick, spongy dust which festooned like Spanish moss. Deep, snakelike trails ran through the dust. Rat droppings were everywhere. He flashed his light around. Beady eyes winked back. "Lots of rats down here. City." "Many of my citizens are reincarnationists and don't eat meat," said the city. "You'll find the nests under my membrane filters. You're on the right level. Keep going." He crawled under whistling air conduits and then stood. Using heavy cables for handholds, he walked across a narrow stiff pipe. He flashed his light down. The blackness seemed bottomless. Only ah occasional cobweb caught his beam. Ahead he saw one of the city's organs -- a sphere about thirty yards in diameter with a medusa head of flexibles. It was warm and dry. He pressed his head against it. Silence. "Found one of your energy organs," he said. anatomy charts. "Membrane filters are ten degrees clockwise," said the city. Val shined his light in that direction. Ten degrees was many yards this far out from shaft central. He moved across one of the larger tubes. It was hollow and he heard voices and movements inside -- a crawlway. Adult rats became more numerous. The larger ones remained stubbornly in his path until he was practically stepping on them. He didn't try to catch them. They weren't too tasty and they could probably bite through his gloves. The sweet stink of the rat nests hit him before he saw the huge cool sphere of the membrane filters. The sweat of the city condensed on its outer walls and streaked down to water the nests in the struts below. The hum of the pumps tickled his feet as he approached. He released the nitrogen into his bag as he thrust his gloved hand into the first nest. The soft young rats were probably expecting mother with food. They swarmed all over his hand and were easily removed and placed into the bag, where their squeaking ceased. He moved from nest to nest until his bag weighed almost half as much as he did. Kicking a large rat off his shoe, he asked the city where the nearest access hatch was. After a pause he was directed back along the crawlway. He dropped into the crawlway in a shower of sooty dust. His bag balanced on his shoulders, he tracked the black downspiral to Watcher's quarters at shaft base, where he stopped to pay his tithe. "Nice hunting today," he said. Watcher rubbed his hands together when he saw all the fresh meat. He and Val warmed up the press and threw the bouncing little bodies inside. "Six hundred before press and three hundred after?" asked Watcher, setting the controls. "Fine with me," said Val. He gestured toward the refresher. The Watcher nodded him inside. The air-water laminar flow cleaned his gear while he undressed. He took a clean issue tissue tunic from the wall dispenser. The sounds of frying and the smell of scorched fur filled the room while he dressed. The press fell with a loud thump that shook the room. Odors of a high protein bake brought out the Watcher's family-#. "Calories for the meld tonight," said Watcher clapping his hands and shooing the six young neuters back into the living quarters. "Flavored calories." The press lifted and Val began scooping the brown and black wafers into his bag. They were still hot. He stopped and blew on his fingers. Watcher used a spatula to pile the share on a large platter. He carried it into his living quarters. Val heard the wet, smacking sounds of an evening meldmeal. Pressed rat was a delicacy. "Flavors are good for the soul," mumbled Val as he started off toward Walter's quarters. B itter met him at the door and immediately began to fondle the heavy bag of pressed rat. Val frowned her away. "Where's Walter?" he asked. "Back here," Walter shouted from his cubicle. Val glanced around the spacious thirty-foot living room. There was some advantage to a family-#. Space was pooled. But your personal cubicle was that much smaller. He walked back to Walter's ten-foot room. "You're a Dabber?" Val exclaimed. Walter smiled. "Dirt-AdobeBamboo. Yes, I guess I am. Come in. Have a seat." The cot and chair were woven bamboo. Dirt covered most of the floor -- not greasy, black soot from the city's air vents but red-brown clay. Soil. Adobe bricks were stacked halfway up one wall like hoarded gold bars. Val sat carefully on the edge of the chair. It squeaked. "You're just in time for the Changing Of The Dirt Ceremony," Walter said. He went to a pot in the corner and lifted up a circular piece of crabgrass sod. The soil underneath smelled of humus, bugs and worms. "Purified dirt." He swept up the old dry dirt from the floor and placed it on the ceremonial bamboo scoop. Then he dumped the pot of sticky black soil and spread it around reverently, picking up an occasional earthworm or sowbug and dropping it back into the pot... Then he poured IF the old dry dirt from the scoop into the pot, added water and replaced the circular piece of crabgrass sod. Val watched the fat old man walk barefoot in his personal mud pie. "You don't actually believe all that Dabber nonsense, do you?" Walter smiled tolerantly. "It isn't a matter of faith -- it's statistics. For the past four thousand years, as long as our records are accurate, Dirt-Adobehas protected men's minds. Inappropriate Activity just doesn't occur among Dabbers." Val held up his hand. "I know what's inappropriate -- biologically -- but you crowd any species and mate and offspring. It's nature's way of controlling a species that is too successful. The only time Man was safe from it was during the neolithic cultures when deaths came from a hostile environment." Walter pulled a pair of sandals on his fat dusty feet. "It's more than just nature's selection of the fit. Our Dabber ranks are full of I.A. victims. If we can catch them early they're salvageable. Some have made suicide gestures before we get them. We smear mud on them, dump dirt in their rooms and teach them the rituals with adobe and bamboo. Salvageable." "Occupational therapy?" "Maybe. But we're boasting a hundred percent protection against I.A. Do you know what the Psych Team's cure rate is? Terrible." "Statistics," Val said. "I know Psych sends the I.A. to suspension -- but the Dabber census is for fraternal not mortality purposes. Even your own diagnosed Inappropriate Activity victims are unofficial. The Psych Team never even got to them. Diagnosis? Statistics? Not comparable. But we can't settle it tonight. Here." Val reached into his heavy sack of protein wafers and offered a handful to Walter. "It was a good hunt. Brought you some flavored calories." Walter popped one into his mouth and chewed carefully around the stiff meshwork of bones, skin and tail. The rich variety of flavors pleased him -- strong charred keratin of cutaneous structures, salty fluids, tangy viscera anji the iron-rich rusty flavors of muscle and blood. He spat the residue into his palm and placed it under the crabgrass. "A treat for my little friends in the soil." Bitter stuck her head in the doorway: "Meld time." She glowed. She had soaked in hot water until even her fingernails had softened. Her tunic folds hung loosely. Walter nodded, shaking his three chins. "Join us?" he asked Val. "No. I've got to get home and fix my -- " Walter put a pudgy hand on his arm, picked up the heavy bag with the other. "You'll eat with us. We'll sauce up these wafers -- have a few drinks." "But -- " Bitter took her cue from her provider and put her arm through Val's. "We even have a little extra Molecular Reward. You can see heaven tonight." V AL was uncomfortably silent while they arranged themselves on the floor around platters and tall glasses. Bitter was busy at the dispenser. Two males, young Jo Jo and old coarse-mannered Busch, were studying small amounts of brightly colored liquids in their glasses. Neutral Arthur removed his tunic. When old Walter wheezed and struggled out of his pleated tent the sudden exposure of all that flesh was hard to ignore. Redundant folds of belly and Hank fat hung to his knees. He looked more  like an unfinished clay statue than a human. "You know, Walter, you should never take off your clothes." "Relaxing is good for the soul, Val." Walter plopped down to the floor. Setting cups of a soupy firstcourse on the platters, female Bitter also began to untie her tunic. Her figure was trim but her puberty-plus-nine years had added a horizontal belly wrinkle. Her breasts were quite small. "Do you think I should leave my clothes on, too?" she asked cloyingly. Val remained standing. Another insult might get him out of what could be an unpleasant evening. "I'm afraid I've seen better bodies on neuters," he said. She gave him a ritual hug. "Neuters can't get warm in the right places." Val frowned. Walter smiled and picked up his tunic. "If our guest feels more comfortable dressed -- " he said pulling on the flowing garment. "We can have a nice, first-stage, hand-holding meld." They held hands, talked and ate. The drinks were warm and intoxicating. When Bitter produced the Molecular Reward Val shook his head. "Don't you want to see heaven?" she asked. "Not while my body is here -- not till its time." "Why?" Walter sounded sincerely interested. "I don't know. Maybe it's the mushroom reaction. I've seen too many. Maybe I just don't want to see something unreal and be fooled into believing it is real." "We'll watch you. You can't go mushroom here," coaxed Bitter. Val shook his head. "No. I don't think I'd like to experience molecular happiness and then wake up and find it was just a dream. The disappointment would be depressing." IF Ill Bitter shrugged. Walter and Busch also shook their heads. Arthur said, "Maybe later. Right now I have to put on the evening's entertainment. It's a dance. I need you, Bitter, for a partner -- so you shouldn't take it either." Jo Jo hadn't said much all evening. He took the M.R. and retired to a corner with his visions. Walter studied Val for a minute, then asked, "You aren't afraid of M.R. are you? We give it to Hunters every day. It is one of the pet rewards of the Big ES." "Maybe Hunters need it. I've seen some pretty badly chewed up legs after three days of the tracking frenzies. The pain must be all but unbearable. M.R. could help that. But I worry about ordinary citizens taking it. The Big ES makes it easy for the retired to get it -- maybe they need it too. I don't know, but you don't see many of the really old retireds around. I don't think it helps them any." "Can't prolong life. Nothing can," Walter said philosophically. "Well, now. I see Arthur and Bitter are ready for their dance." The music Arthur selected was loud. It irritated Val. The dispenser screen flowed with dancing figures. Arthur and Bitter watched a while and then tried to copy the movements. Val was sure they were missing the rhythm completely but he sat smiling with the others. Soon Busch fell asleep and the meld broke up at bedtime. T he next morning Busch grumbled his way to the breakfast table. Bitter gave him a ritual hug. "Missed your warmth in the meld last night," she said. He nodded toward the dispenser for his usual calorie basic. She warmed the refresher for him and went to the dispenser to arrange his platter. "Your new issue tissue is on the hook," she called pleasantly as he came out of the refresher. He dressed silently. Old Walter waddled out in his dusty tunic and sat down. Bitter fluttered around her two job-holding men, wheedling extra flavors out of them. Soon she had enough for her own breakfast. She sat down to eat just as Busch stood up to leave. "Isn't Jo Jo giving you any flavors these days?" he asked. Bitter shook her head. "Jo Jo has been cold in the meld for a long time now." "Try being more generous with your nonritual hugs." "I've done my best." Bitter chewed on a sticky fructose ball. "But he holds out -- must be saving for a bud child or something. I just checked his cot. He's already up and gone." Walter leaned into the conversation but was interrupted by a fading scream. Busch leaped from his chair and crawled quickly to the spiral. Looking down, he saw ripples in the crowd around the broken body of a jumper. He identified Jo Jo's tunic before the speckled crowd flowed back. He returned to Walter and Bitter, announcing jubilantly that Jo Jo was giving a party. "Now? Right after we ate?" "Now," Busch said to the dispenser. He ordered the expensive, high-flavor items as fast as he could and placed them on platters as they were delivered. Then a sensor at shaft base recorded cessation of Jo Jo's cortical activity and the dispenser abruptly closed its chute. "Jo Jo has died. His calorie credits have gone to the General Account," it explained. "You knew?" Walter gasped, staring at the pilferings. "Of course. I just wish that the crowd had had the decency not to trample him so quickly. He landed well, horizontal; no femurs in his belly. Small splatter. He should have lived a couple hours longer." "Robbing the dead," Walter said. Bitter sorted through the items for stables she could use in bartering. "What kind of love is it when you take your calories with you? We're his family. If he wanted to go -- the least he could do is throw a party first." "I could use a couple more pounds of flavored protein," said Busch. Walter sighed. "Now we're widdled down to a family-four. Jo Jo was a worker too. I'll be retiring soon. I guess I'm as guilty as the rest of you -- been counting on Jo Jo's calories for my retirement years." "Widdled?" asked neuter Arthur. "Well, one of us should go and see what Sampler learns from the remains. Next we'll have to start screening for Jo Jo's replacement. A family-four can't hold on to living quarters this size." Walter called Val to meet him at the Neuro lab and left. Bitter and Arthur waited for the first applicants to arrive. "Try to find one with a job," said Busch as he started off for the garage. "A good job." Val and Walter watched the scope. Jo Jo's neurones began to flow by. The tech said, "We got this one sampled promptly. There should be ample brain cells with respiratory quotients high enough for analysis. Those are red cells. This one is just a nuclear fragment." A large triangular cell drifted into view. The tech closed the chamber and flooded it with oxygen and nutrients. "This looks like a promising one. I'll wak for its R.Q. to get up in the normal range before we start. There are three neurochemicals in the brain. Most cells can use them all. Basically IF they fit into the three different brain functions. Acetylcholine for sensory-motor; adrenalin for midbrain autonomies and serotonin for cortical personality. Now I see we're ready. First, I'll clear off the old molecules with an enzyme -- cholinesterase, in this case. Now I'll flood the chamber with labeled acetylcholine. Good response there. Isotope count shows about ninety percent of the expected acetylcholine sites are functioning. Good. Now I'll do the same for adrenalin. The enzyme to clear the sites -- the isotope-labeled neurochemical to count the sites. Readout: a hundred and ten percent. Nothing wrong there. Let's try number three -- serotonin." They watched the tech work. The flimsy printout read: Acetylcholine #, Adrenalin I #, Serotonin #. "There's the trouble -- serotonin. Have to run a few more cells through to see if this is representative -- but it probably is." Walter asked, "But what caused it? It was so sudden." Val interrupted: "He's a jumper isn't he? That's inappropriate activity. The nest factor got him." "Perhaps," said the tech. "There is something blocking the serotonin synapses. I have some fluorescentlabeled antibodies that might help us identify the blocking agent. If it is the nest factor the sites are blocked by the deceased's own immunoglobin-A. This first one is the anti-Ig-A." The chamber flooded, glowed diffusely and then washed clear. "Nothing," said the tech. "The next one is anti-M.R." The chamber flooded again but this time a residual glow, remained on the cell wall after the wash. "Molecular Reward it is. This jumper thought he was a bird." Val and Walter looked at each other, puzzled. "Sure. We see all kinds -- mushrooms, birds, flowers. That M.R. really scrambles some of them. It's like sticking your foot in one of the mech brains -- at the cellular level." On the way to Hunter Control Walter waddled and wheezed. He paused for breath, leaning on the railing. Looking down, he asked, "Do you think Jo Jo had much pain? I mean, do you think he died happy?" "On M.R. he died happy," said Val with finality. Arthur were waiting to screen applicants for Jo Jo's room when "Are you the bereaved?" asked Bitter frowned into the dimly lit crawl way. The newcomer was a slim female, recently polarized. She was on her hands and knees, towing a locker through the dust. After a long silence Bitter answered, "Yes. We were widdled down this morning. What are you?" The newcomer smiled and sat back on her heels brushing grime from her hands explaining. "I'm delta pancreas line of the N.H. clone -- Nora Howell clone, you know -- one of the original HowellJolly bodies. Embryonated from the fourth subculture, so there is still a lot of genetic vigor in my cancy." Bitter repeated, "But, what are you?" "An attendant. All of us Nora Howells are attendants." said VaPen." Bitter remained formal. "I'm the decision until the rest of the family reviews the applications. Now, if you'll just move your gear back out onto the spiral -- " Neutral Arthur glanced down the crawlway at the other applicants. Big ones. Most were well over fifteen stone. Obviously a source of considerable body heat and odor. Big eaters too. He smiled at the slim newcomer. "An attendant? You're so young," he said. "Oh, not a Medi-attendant. Just an attendant. I haven't yet specialized. I'll be servicing Rec centers for a while." Bitter waved an index finger accusingly. "Those breasts. You're polarized." "Almost. Only almost, I assure ses itself that way, I guess. But I carry the subcutaneous capsule -- can't actually ovulate." She sniffed. Neutral Arthur consoled her with a shoulder pat. "Now, now. Dee Pen. Being polarized is difficult. We understand. But it is good for an attendant -- and can be good in the meld. Maturation Index, you know. Helps your sense of rhythm, they say." Dee Pen blinked back a tear and nodded. "Rhythm, yes. Yes. I did very well at the stacks -- good grades in music." "And your nlajor? What was your major?" asked Arthur, helping her in with her bulky locker. "Philosophy -- to balance the emotionalism of a polarized Jollybody." "But we already have a philosopher -- Old Walter," protested Bitter. "And you and old Walter will have plenty to talk about. Dee Pen," said Arthur. Taking Bitter aside, he whispered: "Want another fifteen-stone furnace like Walter smelling up the place?" Bitter raised her eyebrows. Arthur continued sotto voce: "Well, take a look out into the crawlway." He went over to help Dee Pen sort IF through her locker for her flimsy I.D. while Bitter poked her head out. As Arthur glanced over Dee Pen's personality profile he could hear Bitter announcing that the vacancy had been filled. He smiled. He knew a polarized Jolly-body would be very very good in their meld entertainments. Bitter waved the other applicants away and returned, saying, "We can have your credits transferred and be back up to family-five status for the evening meal." V AL and Walter sat in the Hunter Control garage, watching Tinker work. H.C. meek brain was still alert but, with surface sensors detecting no buckeyes, crops were safe and huntercraft had all returned for servicing. Tinker had all dust covers up on around inside the chassis, mumbling into his belt communicator. Occasionally a replacement part dropped into the dispenser. "So the M.R. got Jo Jo," Val said to break the silence. Walter nodded sadly. "Better M.R. than l.A," Val said. Waiter looked puzzled. Val continued: "Inappropriate Activity one's self. Repulsive. I'd hate to think I lived with -- trusted -- someone who would go l.A." "And M.R.? He's still dead." "But that's just an accident -- drug idiosyncrasy. Going flower. bird or mushroom -- those are the risks we take when we want to see heaven molecularly. Taking risks is sort of noble. Accidents are clean. But suicide -- that's dirty." Walter did not answer. Odd, but he felt exactly the opposite. Tinker crawled out of the huntercraft's chassis and wiped oil from his hands. He walked to the dispenser and picked up several coils of neurocircuitry webbing. Returning to the craft, he pulled on a connector. The big machine groaned. "Easy, big fellow. I know it hurts -- but all those frayed nerves have got to come out," said Tinker. He talked over his shoulder to Val and Walter while he worked. "These huntercraft should have been sent to the central servicing area when it was operational. Their power converters and sensors are over a hundred years old. Electron fatigue. No replacement parts for them -- not these days." Val picked up one of the craft's optic pickups. "Their eyes are weak." Tinker glanced back. "They need new electromag retinas. I can rebuild the coarse E.M. sensors in my quarters but I don't have the tools for the fine work. Can't handle the converters, of course. No one does that kind of work any more." Val frowned at the mysterious converter above Doberman's left rear wheel -- a solid-state generator that converted electricity to muscie power; Other converters throughout the machine converted to heat, light or radio waves as the organ demanded. Converter science was a lost art. "You can rebuild sensors in your own room?" Val asked. "Just the coarse ones -- and I have several rooms high up in the shaft, a long way from the dispensers on shaft base. Not much demand for quarters way up there." Val was interested. He held tools for Tinker and asked questions while old Walter wheezed in the background. At change of shift Val helped Tinker carry a load of weak meek eyes to his quarters. Val was amazed at the jumble of parts that filled the corners and shelves -- heads of agromechs, brain boxes from dispensers, communicators, sensors, tools and screens -- even a rebuilt dispenser in front of his cot. Tinker saw Val staring at the dispenser. "Built it myself," he explained proudly. "Of course, it isn't an authorized model but it gives me someone to talk to -- a class-thirteen brain. But it can't deliver anything unless the pressure reaches this level -- which is seldom these days. I still have to use shaft base for most things." Val walked slowly past the long work bench. Occasionally he would caress a box of wires or a small tool almost reverently. One bundle of thick wires trailed out of a large black drum. The drum stood on insulated blocks. It measured three feet in diameter and stood five feet high. Tinker waved him away when he approached it. "Careful. I've been experimenting with a larger capacitor to run my tools when the power is down. It's probably well charged now and my insulation methods are pretty makeshift. Give it a good six feet clearance to be safe." Val eyed the bright connectors on the top of the drum. He marveled at Tinker's ingenuity. The drum looked powerful, almost ominous, just sitting there. He gave it a wide berth and went on into the next room. More electronic gear faced him. Heavy cables led to a communicator with a focusing antenna. Charts and maps covered one wall. "Listening to huntercraft and agromechs in the field," explained Tinker, "is a hobby of mine." Val recognized some of the topography from his own H.C. wall panels. He was amazed that anyone could build so much detail into a map from a few hours of casual listening. They were interrupted by the dispenser. It started chattering and printing out a flimsy. Tinker went to read it while Val studied the map. "It's a birth permit -- for me," Tinker shouted excitedly. Val smiled. "Congratulations, but it's no surprise to me. Big ES must have recognized your talents." "But it's a class-three permit." Val thought a minute. "Class three means budchild with a human incubator of your choice. So?" "But I live alone." Val glanced around at the crowded quarters. There was room for a family-#, except that every available square inch was filled with gear for tinkering. "Have a female in mind?" "No, and I'm not particularly interested either. A budchild is fine -- I'm aware of my genes for intelligence and hard work -- I was bred for hard work. I was a class-one birth permit myself -- mechanical womb. Why would the Big ES want to burden me with a familythree now?" "I know just what you mean," soothed Val. "I live alone myself -- like it. Was lightly polarized two years ago -- needed hard shoulders for the long bow -- Sagittarius, you know -- H.C. I got the hard shoulders all right but also I got some hair on my upper lip and an irritable personality. I'm not interested in getting heavily polarized to full male gender -- I'd probably have to shave and then I'd really be hard to work with. But, if Big ES asked me, I suppose I'd go along." Tinker shrugged. "I don't want my whole life upset by a classthree permit when a class-one would do just as well. Let the Big ES incubate." Val left, saying, "Good Luck. See you in the garage next shift." IV T he clerk at Embry ogenesis shook his head. "Sorry, Tinker -- it stays a class-three. Our budget doesn't permit us to carry any more births this month and your bud child is right on schedule. Requisitioned above our meek uteri IF capacity. The committee report is final. Do your duty and pick a female to carry it." "That's just it -- I don't have a female." "No one appeals to you?" "I like everyone -- but I'm not sexually attracted to -- " "There's no sex involved in a class three." "But there is. Don't you see?" Tinker was irritated. "A class three means female incubator of my choice. Right? The Big ES doesn't pick the incubator, so it doesn't have to pay job rates for carrying. The incubator has to carry it out of love for me -- well, there is no one who will do it for me without pay." The clerk studied the committee report. "No funds for moving it back to a class two either. Tinker. You'll just have to find someone. That's an order. Get yourself more heavily polarized." Tinker reflexively clicked his heels. "Yes, sir. Right away, sir." On his way to the Polarization Clinic, Tinker studied the sea of pasty white faces floating on the tangle of sticky, soft bodies -- neutral citizens, anonymous, monotonous, ugly. Not a mind or a body he'd care to share his cubicle with. The clinic was closed. He rang. The attendant on call arrived an hour later. She was an edentulous old hag bent with age -- arthritic -- well up in her twenties and nearing retirement. "Going to swing hetero, honey?" "It's an order from the Big ES," he said simply. Other than warming his loins, polarization seemed to do little for Tinker's problem of finding an incubator. If anything, it made the chore more difficult. He became more critical of his fellow citizens. Fat old Walter was now disgustingly fat in spite of redeeming intellectual qualities. The press of humanity in the tubeways became intolerable with odors and textures he hadn't noticed before. Tinker walked into the H.C. garage with a sack of meek eyes and began to arrange them on Doberman's fender. "Polarization is tough," he said to Val. "I vomited in the tubeways this morning. I've never done that before." Val picked up an eye and admired the bright fittings. "Polarization involves strengthening your neuro-humoral-axis. Humoral means gonads, adrenals and pituitary; but the neuro involves the autonomic system. Your autonomic tone is pretty high right now. Vomiting reflex is in there somewhere -- it's heightened too." "But what have smells got to do with sex?" asked Tinker, climbing up to Doberman's head. "You'll have to go back down the evolutionary tree for that answer." Val handed up an eye and a tool kit. "But I'd guess that surface-dwelling hominids reacted with their environment more than we do -- Big ES protects us. Most of us don't even polarize spontaneously any more. But when we do become polarized some of those ancient reflexes are activated. Tinker looked down at Val and asked, "What reflex is it that makes me so critical of everyone?" Val shrugged. Tinker continued: "Like you for instance, Val. I used to think you were a nice guy -- " "And?" "Now you look like a parasite," said Tinker. "You follow Walter around and send hunters out to be killed. Now you're following me around. You never do anything yourself." "I'm young." "Don't give me that! You're my age at least -- almost twenty. You're going to be as good as dead in half a dozen years -- I'll bet you've already got a loose tooth." Val answered mildly, "Polarization sure made you crusty. But I suppose that is natural, too. When you're geared to picking a mate all of your senses are heightened. I memory molecules I'm a competing male." Tinker returned to his work while Val ruminated. T hat day something clicked in Tinker's visual cortex. He was certain that the retinal images were unchanged but his brain now sorted everyone into two groups -- neuts and polarized. A sullen male eyed him from across a sea of thousands of blank faces in the tubeway. He caught the glimpse of a shapely female form in the amorphous tangle at shaft base. If one out of ten thousand was a polarized female, she caught his eye. The rest of the crowd faded into the background like cardboard cutouts -- nothings -- nebishes. Little things began to bother him, like stepping over the remains of a jumper while lining up at the dispenser. Dispenser lines were too long now -- too slow. He was angered by the sight of a beggar -- swollen with wet beri-beri -- who had to scurry through an access hatch to hide between walls to escape Medi-attendants who would have taken him to the suspension clinic. He stood silently while the meek sweeper scrubbed up wet spots left by the beggar's oozing ulcers -- then he shouldered his way through the docile crowd and went to the head of the line, ordering a container of thick barley broth. The dispenser eyed him suspiciously at this break in menu. He usually ordered dry stables to stock his pantry. He took the soup to the access hatch and cracked the lid. The aroma brought out the beggar. "Flavored calories, old man," said Tinker. IF The beggar drank with trembling hands while Tinker looked into his dark nest. Unopened packets of calorie-basic were scattered around in the thick dust. No flavors. "That was nice," said a female voice. Tinker turned to see a polarized female stepping out of the flowing crowd. She wore the tunic of the jobless caste and tightened her belt to accentuate her soft curves. He stared. "You're focusing," she said coyly. The apathetic crowd around them seemed to vanish. All he saw were her eyes, her mouth, her breasts. "What?" he stammered. "That was nice," she repeated. "What you did for the old man there -- giving him your meal." His wits snapped back. Begging was forbidden, and giving alms was a function of Big ES. For a moment he felt guilty. Next he was angered by his guilt and flared up. "I can afford it." "It was still nice -- nice that you noticed him." she said, touching his caste emblem with her fingers. He backed away -- intentional body contact was a meld activity. He felt awkward in public. "Who are you?" he asked. ture, Mu Renal cell line from B.L. clone. Age ten. Spontaneous polarization -- ah -- puberty. Assigned to you by our Watcher." He noticed a light locker behind her. She was ready to move in. "Assigned?" "Watcher took me out of the stacks before my studies were complete. I was assigned to a family-five before but I hesitated in the meld -- never been in one before. I begged the Watcher to delay my assignment until I found a familytwo to start with. I can work up to a family-five later, maybe. I think I'm too young for a big family." Tinker looked her over analytically. If her polarization had really been spontaneous and not some clandestine molecules smuggled into her food, then it was puberty -- and he was looking at a female with a strong pituitary-ovary axis. A good incubator. "Come with me," he said, taking her by the hand and elbowing his way through the complacent queue to the dispenser. He loaded her arms with stables and then, shouldering her locker led her upspiral to his rooms. He was pleasantly surprised at how well she fit into his crowded quarters -- like a hand into a glove -- into his cot, his refresher and even around the workbench -- dusting and arranging where she was allowed and not touching where she wasn't. T he tech at Embryo clinic probed the tender subcutaforearm and removed her antiovulation capsule. "Can't have conflicting hormones -- can we?" he said casually as he held the raw edges of the incision together and sprayed them with syntheskin. Ignoring her winces, he gave her four quick Hi Vol injections of hormones to prepare her endometrium. "Come back in ten days and we'll implant little Tinker, Jr." "Could I see him now?" she asked. The tech brushed her toward the door. "Nothing to see now -- just a clone soup in foaming nutrients. Just be patient -- in six months he'll kicking and squirming around in there. You'll have a wonderful time." But she didn't have a wonderful time. Four weeks after implantation she passed a larg clot. Worried, she searched her locker for her old Ov earring. Her activity in the meld became warmer -- more purposeful. She knew how slim their chances were for another birth permit. She'd probably be coded as a weak incubator and sterilized. Fearfully she watched the earring. Two weeks later it signaled an ovulation and her belly began to grow again -- a little behind schedule, but it grew. Tinker, preoccupied with strange radio signals from the mountains, failed to notice anything unusual -- but at forty-two weeks postimplantation the Empryo clinic asked her to come down for a checkup. She refused. imale voice. stitching and saw two Security police in the doorway. Behind them were two more holding an awkward bundle of quarter staffs and throwing nets. Her face whitened visibly and one of the men glanced up from his scanner. "Reading in the T-zone. This is it," he said. Two entered while the others took up positions back by the crawl way entrance on the spiral. They noticed her pendulous belly and tremulous, weak movements as she backed into the corner. "Relax and sit down somewhere -- please," said one of the men. "We're just making a routine check on communicators. Nothing for you to be concerned about." She sat on the cot, eyeing them suspiciously. They were soft males -- reliable neuters -- but there were four of them. Escape was impossible. She waited. Tinker arrived with smiles and nods. He set the stable foodstuffs on the pantry shelf and answered questions. Yes, he had heard unusual radio signals. No, he wasn't using a tight-beam transmitter. No, he had no idea where the signals came from. Yes, he'd keep them informed. They left -- satisfied. IF "What was that all about?" she asked. "Not sure." He closed the door to their quarters, secured it with a heavy hasp. He walked deliberately to the bench and pressed one earphone to his right ear. "I've been hearing odd messages from the surface -- and they're not from authorized sources -- not agromechs or Huntercraft." His use of the term "authorized" drained the color from her face again. She sat down. He noticed her distress and patted her on the knee. "Now, now -- there's no danger. Probably just a renegade meek his identity crisis. Those what-if and random-association circuits sometimes break down the loyalties of the class-six mecks and they run amok until they deplete their energy cells. No danger. Just a few lost crops." His words had little effect on his gravid female. Tears began to trail down her cheeks. "Our baby isn't authorized." He hadn't heard her. He had both earphones on now and he was swinging his biconical antenna around trying to pick out messages as they filtered through the many walls and organs of the city. "Good thing we have a high cubicle," he mumbled to himself, "or I wouldn't be getting any of this." The sounds he heard were music -- guitars, tambourines and waves -- a pounding surf being transmitted by tight beam. The words he picked up were sing-songy. They sounded human, but he knew that class sixes could simulate almost anything if they carried the proper gear. The words didn't make sense -- a chant of some sort. He caught the name, Olga. Tinker removed his earphones with a shrug. He had heard of the Followers of Olga -- a fraternal organization more cultish than Security again -- this time it looked as though they had gone Outside. He had worked in the garage at Hunter Control and thought it odd that the tight-beam source hadn't attracted Huntercraft before this. When he went to the cot he found Mu Ren sobbing herself to sleep. He patted her belly. A tiny foot kicked his hand. She opened reddened eyes and wailed, "Our baby isn't authorized." "Of course it is," he said. "I have the authorization right here." "But we need a class five." She filled him in about the clot she passed, the earring and now the call from Embryo clinic. "A hybrid," he said in amazement sitting up. "A hybrid?" "What'll become of it?" she sniffed. "They'll collect it -- and dispose of it." She sobbed herself to sleep. T he next day Tinker explained to Val who was more concerned about the peculiar tightbeam transmissions. "Don't let the pregnancy get you down. If it is unauthorized, it's just unauthorized. Happens all the time. How long are you going to keep the baby?" Tinker shrugged. "It won't need papers until it starts to walk and talk. We can keep it till then, I suppose." Val shook his head. "I don't think that's a very good idea. I know some of the females do it to develop their souls, but it is hard to give them up just when they're becoming human. I'd chuck it down the chute immediately if I were you. Now tell me more about those transmissions." "I don't think I could do it. I know it is patriotic and loyal and obedient -- but I couldn't do it." "I'll come over when she delivers and do it for you -- now what about those transmissions. Why aren't we picking them up here at Hunter Control. If someone is Outside we should know about it." Tinker was still badly shaken but he went to the wall panels and drew lines. The directional ran from the ocean across the shaft cap to the mountains. Val studied the line and then put the H.C. meek to work checking his sensors in that area. "Nothing on the line," said H. C. "But Security is picking it up, too," said Tinker. "What H.C. means," explained Val, "is that there is nothing on the line where we have crops and where the sensors are. We don't know what is above the frost line in the mountains -- or under the water in the ocean." Tinker brooded. Val smiled. "Come on. Let's suit up and take Doberman, here, out on a shakedown cruise. We can look at the ends of your line for the renegade Followers of Olga. The ride will o you good -- take your mind off everything." V D oberman hi moved smoothly across the fields at treetop level. "There's already a sighting," Val said. Tinker had his helmet pressed against the viewport. A bubble of sour gastric juice rose into his throat when he saw the body -- naked and flaking red-brown. Roots and stolons from the highauxin crop were invading the soft tissues. "A flower," mumbled Val. "Molecular Reward?" asked Tinker. "Probably -- but it is too late IF for sampling now. Decomposed. Be nothing but bones left by harvest time." They moved on. Doberman maneuvered awkwardly in the thin air of the upper mountain slopes. They passed over a wind-swept table mountain and saw the relics of a tattered neolithic village. Flying low, they stirred up clouds of dust and ash. "Used to be large numbers of the five-toed buckeyes around here till we hunted them down," Val said. "But that was mostly before my time. No good hunts around here in years." Tinker took a variety of views at different wave lengths. At longred pickup he thought he saw a glow in some rocks set around ashes. Too faint to be certain. Tracking back across the shaftcap, they flew on toward the dull gray ocean. The pounding surf on audio was familiar, not unlike the transmission. Tinker put optics on full sweep. Robot algae harvesters moved on the horizon following hints of green. The waters seemed almost sterile, they were so clear. Bubbles the size of buildings dotted the shelf. Nothing moved in the water. Tinker stared into the water. "First time Outside?" asked Val. Tinker nodded. "Well those are relics of the past, too -- underwater Rec centers. Our five-toed ancestors used to swim around down there, I guess. Some of the domes still have active power cells squeezing air out of the water with membrane pumps. Saw optic records one of our sewage-system subs took last year -- vast empty chambers all over the ocean floor. Some were decorated with drawings of the extinct, bony fishes that used to live around here. Nothing alive down there now except a little plankton. Wish we had the technology and the animal species to farm the oceans again." Tinker just stared. When they returned to Hunter Control Walter told them that Mu Ren had started labor. Tinker started to run downspiral. Val hurried to catch up. "Won't the Medi-attendant be there?" "Not for an unauthorized pregnancy." They ran along in silence. The crowd density was low and they made good time. They arrived in plenty of time. Mu Ren's contractions were still three and a half minutes apart and the membranes were still intact. She was dozing between contractions. It would be a long night. T inker placed a sensor on her abdomen and watched the fetal and maternal cardiograms run across a screen. He had run through simulated deliveries a hundred times on his dispenser screen and his hands were skilled. The human body was just another type of machine to him -- once he learned the peculiarities of the warm, soft and sometimes wet anatomy. He put a board on the cot under her buttocks to prevent fluids from pooling around the outlet. "Position," said the viewscreen's meek brain with the next contraction. As she had practiced, she automatically reached down and grabbed both legs behind the knees and pulled -- flexing her legs up and out. The bag-of-waters bulged. Several contractions later it burst and the head bulged the perineum. "Presentation?" asked the viewscreen. Diagrams appeared. Tinker palpated the baby's head for the skull suture lines. The larger diamond-shaped fontanel was posterior toward the sacrum. "The baby's facing the sacrum," said Tinker, smiling. "Most favorable position," said the screen. One diagram remained, labeled Occiput Anterior. With the next contraction the little head bulged way out and the perineum stretched. "Ritgeh rag," said the viewscreen. Tinker picked up a coarsely woven hand-towel and supported the perineum. "Check cord," said the screen as the head cleared. He flicked mucus from the little nose and mouth as he felt deep between the baby's neck and shoulder. A slippery, tense loop of umbilical cord encircled the neck. He dug his middle Finger quickly under the loop. It wouldn't budge. "One loop," he said as his right hand darted to his little work table for the three snub-nosed instruments. Clamp -- clamp -- cut between. With the next contraction he guided the head down to release the anterior shoulder from under the pubic bone -- and then upward to release the posterior shoulder. Suddenly the rest of the infant followed in a gush of fluids and a jumble of glistening cord. He wiped its face with a clean hand towel and gave it to Val who held it awkwardly and turned up his nose. The baby wasn't moving. Its eyes and mouth were closed and the skin' was a wrinkled, dull white covered with cheesy mucus -- ugly! "Better chuck it down the digestor chute before she hears it cry and ruins her day," Val said, holding it out like a piece of garbage gone sour. Tinker nodded and mumbled something. He was preoccupied with the placenta which now bulged out in front of a ball of copious, jelly-like clots. Val started the long crawl toward the spiral, leaving a trail of cloudy white drops in the dust. The infant squirmed hard and gave a single loud cry. He tried not to look at it. Val eyed the digestor chute uncomfortably. Stained and granular, it spoke of the varieties of solid wastes it had accepted in the IF past. It was several hundred feet down -- a dark, traumatic trip. He moved the selector switch between chop and dice. "She's bleeding bad," called Tinker. Val looked back to see Tinker's worried face in the crawlway opening. "Did you press on the uterine fundus?" asked Val. "Yes. Bleeding slowed -- but hasn't stopped. I'm worried. Can't we call the medi-attendant now? Maybe they'll have drugs or something to stop it." "Not for an unauthorized pregnancy," Val said. He glanced down the little form in his right hand. The baby was crying vigorously now. It's face pinked up and it was blinking around from wide, dark eyes. They returned to the cot. Mu Ren was trying to massage her uterus. Blood flowed. She tried to protest when Tinker handed her the infant. "Take it," he said firmly. "Just pretend it's medicine -- breast-feed it. It'll help the bleeding." She was awkward but the infant knew exactly what to do -- it locked on firmly and began to suck. Immediately the uterine fundus hardened to a ball. The bleeding stopped. Tinker relaxed. "He doesn't know he's unauthorized," he said. The child was male -- and had five toes. fond of infant in the days that followed. They called him Tinker TwoJunior, using the name they had picked out for the bud child. They applied for a variance on their original class-three birth permit. "Sorry, sir," said the clerk. "Your own record is commendable, of course, but with a hybrid we must consider the mother's genes, too. Mu Ren has shown several anti-ES traits: spontaneous polarizationpuberty, clandestine pregnancy and failure to obey a clinic summons. You'll have to admit that she even kept the hybrid status of the infant a secret from you. Very poor record. No variance." "Even if I make it a condition for my future work as a tinker?" The clerk had an answer. "You're receiving flavored calories. You couldn't live on caloriebasic -- or could you?" Tinker set his jaw. "The committee's vote is final," said the clerk, waving him out. One night he listened to unfamiliar chants on his earphones. Something moved in his peripheral vision. He turned to see the baby. "He's already crawling -- " Mu Ren picked up Junior hugging him hard. "He's a big boy," she said sadly. Tinker turned purposefully to the communicator. He tried in his five-foot capacitor, poured water in the heat sink and checked the polarity reversal. A shaped field probed around the room, rustling loose tools. He narrowed to tight beam and transmitted. "Who's out there?" The music continued and his screen showed diffuse, concentric, dancing circles. The music stopped and the circles collapsed to a pinpoint as the other tight beam locked onto his position. A metallic voice answered.  "Identify yourself." "I'm Tinker of H.C. City. Who are you?" "Ball -- companion and protector," said the voice. "A renegade meek?" "Free meek," corrected the voice. "If you are a good Tinker we can use you. You are welcome to come here to Mount Tabulum and share our flavors -- and freedom." Tinker exchanged glances with Mu Ren, turned to his map. Ball was speaking of the location of the tattered neolithic village. It would take them several weeks to get there. There were several canals and many open fields to cross -- miles of them. "It will be difficult. We'll be hunted," Tinker said. "We'll try to decoy the hunters. Don't carry anything made of metal and travel at night. Stay in the taller vegetation and well below the canal banks as much as possible. Travel more than ten miles a day so the Hunter sensors won't get a fix on you. I must sign off now -- questing fields are tickling our beam." "Who was that?" asked Mu Ren. "I'm not sure but we'll find out. We're going Outside." When he saw her face drop he added reassuringly: "Don't worry. I think I've got it all figured out. We'll need coveralls to protect our photosensitive skins at first. I think I know enough about Huntercraft to stay clear of them. If we travel fast and travel at night -- we've got a very good chance." "We'll be killed," she blurted. "If we escape the hunters the buckeyes will eat us." He gave her a nonritual hug and nodded toward Junior asleep on a pile of issue tissue. She understood. That evening he made four trips to shaft base -- acting casually -- to order extra clothing and food from the dispenser. His credit account grew strained. Being careful not to include metals, he made up belt-and-shoulder-sized bundles containing stables and Stone-Age tools of synthetics. "Planning on going some place?" a voice asked from the doorway. Startled, Tinker turned to see the two Security police. Smiling and nodding like a good citizen. Tinker approached them. "Certainly, a Climb. My vacation. You must have heard." IF The two neuters hesitated. "We came to check on the tight-beam transmission. Questing fields pointed to your level. The unauthorized infant is still here, too. Those packs are not regulation for a Climb. You're in real trouble this time." Tinker said, "Just check on my vacation authorization." Two more neuters blocked the crawlway to spiral with quarterstaffs and throwing net. He could probably bull his way through alone -- but not with Mu Ren and the kid. "We were just on our way to chuck the kid down the chute." The neuters called in for information on his Climb. He motioned for Mu Ren to pick up Junior. Then he fumbled casually with the audio settings of the communicator. "Nothing on the Climb," said the neuter. He approached with a pair of hobbles. "Sorry, Tinker, but we've got to take you down to the Psych clinic. Your behavior has become very anti -- " the room with # decibels of # hertz sound. Using a fourfoot length of flexicable, he whipped his way past the two neuters, pushed Mu Ren and the baby out and away from the pair with the nets and quarterstaffs. An access hatch let him and his family between the walls and an air vent brought them to the surface. The sun was shining brightly. They peered through the louvers at the tables. "We forgot our packs and protective clothing," said Mu Ren. "Don't worry. We can wait till nightfall. They won't find us here. No one knows the 'tween walls like a Tinker." They caught their breath. After a few minutes of gazing at the gardens he added: "There's one thing we don't have to worry about Outside." She looked up quizzically. "Food." # # one buckeye? I mpossible. vyNot Tinker," Val shouted as he paced around Tinker's deserted quarters. "Well it wasn't I. A. or M.R. He knew exactly what he was doing." said the Security captain. "Even injured one of my men." "But he doesn't have five toes." The Security captain smugly produced a flimsy. "Look at his ridge width and his triradiiloop ratio." Walter studied the analysis of Tinker's handfoot prints. "The gene," murmured Walter, passing the flimsy to Val. "He was such an achiever." "Achievers give us the most trouble," said the captian. "They carry the  gene of the In-between. Their independence and initiative make them very poor team players -- and usually anti-ES." IF "The bad gene," mumbled Val. "And I let the kid live." "You'll send out a squad of hunters, of course," said the captain. Val nodded. A t hunter control Walter tightened the loops on Val's suit and handed him his helmet. "Wall charts from Tinker's room overlay ours quite well. He knows where he is going. Do you think you should go after him alone?" Val nodded grimly. "No sense scrambling a whole platoon of hunters. They'd need drugs to go Outside, anyway -- so we could only use them one at a time. I know Tinker. Maybe I can talk him back." "If you can't?" "I'll be in Bird Dog Nine -- I'll be all right." "And Tinker?" "It had to be his decision. My hands arc tied. If he wants to lay down his life for an unauthorized kid and some anti-ES female -- well -- I'll just let him do that." Val picked up the heavy longbow. "I'll just be doing my duty. You stay and keep an eye on H.C. I don't like all the tight-beam activity on the surface -- the buckeyes may be coming out of hiding. One of the lesser planets might be moving into a more favorable aspect for them. Stay alert." "The sensors have never been off. There have been no sightings -- no even of Tinker and his family-three." "I think I know where to look for him -- he knows how to avoid sensors but he has no protective gear. He'll be holed up during the day. Can't get far," Val said. Bird Dog lifted off. Its bronzeand-yellow hull rotated slowly toward the garage door. Hunter Control was quiet again. Walter sat down and studied playbacks from Tinker's dispenser memory unit. He ran it through the psychokinetoscope, searching for those telltale fine body movements that marked psychosis -- but he found no evidence of I.A. Tinker and Mu Ren were acting logically up till the end. Walter mumbled to himself. "But going buckeye has to be inappropriate. They'll be hunted down. They'll surely die." B ird dog settled down quietly in a grove of fruit trees. Its optics scanned the canal that led away from Tinker's shaftcity. Val waited confidently. Dusk was still several hours away. "I have a sighting," said Bird Dog unexpectedly. Val reached for his bow, muttering, "The sun is still up. Tinker knows better than to expose his epidermis to -- " But the form that came around the bend was not one of fugitives. It was a powerful, rogue coweye. Val cringed as he read the scanner. "It's a big one. Must be eighteen inches taller than me -- a sixfooter at least -- and reading way over in the luteal phase." Walter's voice asked, "Can you get in a shot?" Val nocked his arrow and motioned for Bird Dog to open the window. Bird Dog said, "No one can shoot from inside my cabin. I can not take an active role in directive. You'll have to step Outside to shoot. Expose yourself." "I'm a supervisor -- " Val cursed as Bird Dog remained silent. He realized the futility of argument and buckled into his harness. Their quarry moved into deeper water and submerged as Val cracked the hatch. Bird Dog lifted off in a cloud of leaves and scanned the canal. Nothing. Val swung downharness, landing in the coweye's path on the opposite bank. Renocking his arrow he waited in silence. Bird Dog moved off in its passive role as taxi -- waiting. Val tried to estimate how far the coweye could have swum while he was in the air. Watching the quiet, mint-green waters he moved on down the bank -- cautious -- nervously alert. Then he stumbled over something slippery, wet and cold -- the coweye. Walter's voice sputtered out of his communicator: "Quick, shoot her. She's very dangerous." Val bent down and nudged her with his hand -- she was stone cold. "Not this one. She's dead -- she reads negative on my detector. Must have died of fright or exertion." Val signaled to be picked up again. "Aren't you going to take a trophy?" asked Walter. "Me? A supervisor? I'm here to catch Tinker. Lost too much time already. Besides, she'll still be here in the morning." Darkness settled. Val waited -- sipping a warm drink and watching an entertainment channel while the huntercraft scanned. "Something -- " whispered the machine. "Give me the hi-lo beam outside the visual range. I want to get a good look at -- " Val paused, open-mouthed. "The coweye." He watched the long-haired, muscular female rewarm and climb from the thick kale greens into the warm canal. In another moment she was gone, powerful strokes carrying her away under the surface. "They're immortal." "Get hold of yourself," cautioned Walter. "I saw it, too. Better call off your hunt and get back here. This reminds me of that buckeye kill near Filly's mountain. Remember? Foxhound went and came back with the trophy but Sampler found only blood clots and the arrows." Val nodded. "But that one had fatal injuries. We decided that IF aquatic flesh-eaters must have gotten the remains." Walter reviewed the sensor readings on both cases. "Just suppose for a moment that Filly's buckeye is alive, as we know last night's was -- just suppose. What is the logical explanation of the spontaneous hypothermia we observed?" Val shrugged. "All I can think of is something occult -- but I don't believe in anything like that. You're not going to drag in soulmigration theory are you?" Walter smiled. "No -- something much simpler and biological. Hibernation. Reflex hibernation. We're dealing with an aborigine, after all -- and they have very high neuTohumoral tone. Partial hibernation has frequently been observed in these primitive hominids in the past. It took heat-seeking hunters to bring out the gene that permits a buckeye to play possum." Val said, standing up, "From now on we'll put down a hunter at each sighting and let him tramp around until he finds the helpless they're cold should be easy." VI T he #-toed villagers of Table Mountain busied themselves with survival chores -- drying grains, fruit and meat; sewing hides and gathering vegetable fuels. At dusk Tinker, Mu Ren and the baby left the lengthening shadows and approached the settlement. Tinker felt defeated. His issue tissue garments had all but disintegrated after three days of swimming and crawling. During the following weeks their exposed skin had torn like flimsies on the undergrowth and peeled in the sun. His muscles affid joints were badly swollen. A village male -- puberty plus ten -- quickly identified them from their appearance and welcomed them with ' gourd of water. He stood a foot taller than Tinker and had heavily sinewed arms and a leathery skin. His sturdy mate rolled out her sleeping mat and motioned to Tinker and his family to lie down. Four bright-eyed children peeked out of the hide-covered wickiup. Tinker tried to make Mu Ren comfortable, then collapsed himself, bleeding and oozing from a hundred minor injuries. "Welcome, citizens." Tinker opened his eyes to see the village leader. Unlike the others, who wore only loin cloths, he had on long purplish robes and wrappings on his feet and legs. He was as tall and sinewy as the others, though, and under his arm he carried a bright, metalloid sphere. The voice came from the sphere. "Welcome citizens. I am Ball." Tinker moaned a greeting. The robed leader squatted down slowly, the Ball in his lap. His joints were stiff and his bald head and wrinkled face told Tinker how really ancient he was. "I am the Hip -- keeper of the Bali. Ball has kept Table Mountain safe, from the hunters," said the leader. Tinker sat up, winced and lay back again. Hip stood up, motioning for two coweyes to bring bowls of warm water and nut oils. "They'll bathe your wounds," said Hip. "We can talk later when you mend -- and mend fast. The villagers can use your skills." While the coweyes dressed their wounds Tinker glanced around a little nervously. Counting toes, he soon realized that he and Mu Ren were the only #-toeds in the village. He put a protective arm over her and fell into the sleep of exhaustion. In the months that followed he took his place in the village -- hunting canals for cetacean meat and hides, building a shelter and foraging gardens for calories. Junior grew at a #-toed pace; matching the junglebunnies in neuromuscular development. Tinker and Mu Ren were happy. T he meld tightened and warmed up around fat old Walter. Dee Pen wiggled on her belly, working her Jolly-body through the arms and legs to a position on the top. "Soul?" she said, picking up where she had left off before the warming. "Of course man has a soul -- a nice comfortable share in the collective soul of Big ES. That's why mankind has become such a successful life form on the planet -- he forms hives." Old Walter wheezed as he moved oie of his arms out of the meld to cool. "I prefer to think of man's soul as the life principle of ancient individual man. He's traded that now for his parasitic existence in the hive." Dee Pen recoiled at such antiES blasphemy. Arthur reached through and patted her soothingly. "Now, now. Don't mind old Walter. He's just trying to goad you into a philosophical debate. Tell me more about your works on the viola." Dee Pen ignored Arthur. She flared, producing interesting effects in the meld. "The citizen is not a parasite in ES. He is part of it. Look at all the good that has come from the Big ES -- without it the earth couldn't support a tenth of its present population." "Greatest good for the greatest number?" prodded Walter. "Certainly -- man has replaced many of the lower life forms on the planet. More intelligent life is better than less." "A hundred pounds of man is better than an equal weight of bugs and worms?" "Of course." "And trees?" She searched for the didactics IF on trees: "Trees were just the fabric of the Jungle ecosystem. Cities are the ecosystem of man. The only trees we need are food trees, flavor trees -- man's food chain." Walter began to lose his grip in the moist meld. He changed his position and asked, "What about men's minds? Hasn't I. A. been increasing with the evolution of Big ES? Suicides were nonexistent in the Stone Age -- they're the principal cause of death now." "Weak genes," she countered. "The jungles weeded out the weakbody genes with carnivores -- now the Big ES is weeding out the weak-mind genes with I. A." Walter smiled. Little Dee Pen had graduated with all the basic ES philosophy. She trusted that some future #-toed population would be free from LA. Walter wondered. As a Dabber he clung to some of the old philosophies of the neolithics -- dirt, adobe and bamboo. He had even been a Follower of Olga in his youth -- and as a F.O.O. he had awaited the return of Olga. But as his life span was drawing to a close he was losing faith. T inker wondered at the large stores of dried meats the village was preparing. Each day Ball sent young female "bait" to walk in front of buckeye sensors. Burly spearchuckers followed and returned with freshly quartered meat. Hip supervised a group of coweyes who were trimming. "Looks a bit watery to me," said Tinker. "Agree. But it is the best there is. The Hive always sends us the best -- protein-poor-protoplasm that it is." "Why the large stores? Expecting a long winter?" Hip nodded toward Ball. "It's for the trek. We go to gather at the river. Olga is returning." The villagers bowed their heads at the holy words of their seer. Tinker kept a respectful silence and then murmured a line from one of the buckeye prayers. "The great coming together..." The astrologers had finally agreed on the time for the fullfillment of the five-thousand-year-old legend. F oxhound XI returned from the hunt to face Val's wrath. "Lost the entire squad again?" Foxhound coughed, clouding his screen. "I put them down on fresh spoor. They went into tracking frenzy smoothly -- but when I returned to pick them up they were gone." Val hit the screen with the palm of his hand to clear the focus. "Didn't you see anything?" Foxhound coughed again. "Weak eyes. Sorry. You can review the optic records if you want. I need new eyes." Val let his anger subside. "I'm IF the one who should be sorry -- old meek. Your eyes have been on order. It looks like it will be a long time yet. We need lots of parts." Back at his desk Val put in a call to the class-one meek that coordinated priorities for the Big ES. He stated his case briefly and gave the requisition numbers. After receiving the usual conciliatory excuses he exploded. "In the last three months alone I've lost over a hundred hunters in the Orange sector -- " "Are the crops in danger?" "No, but the hunters -- " "The crops are your primary concern. Population control is not your worry." "Population control? I'm talking about hunters. They're out there protecting our crops. We should protect them." "Get hold of yourself, Sagittarius. You must look at this problem in the right perspective. The Orange sector's suicide rate is thirty thousand per day right now. You can't be bothering me with the loss of one hunter per day. It is a small price to pay for the protection of all the sector's crops -- the calories and flavors for a populazens." Val relaxed. Maybe he was losing sight of the overall picture. He thanked Olga that he wasn't responsible for cleaning up # bodies a day. Keeping his huntercraft operating seemed to be one of the easiest chores in the Big ES. and Val dropped in on him at his quarters. He found the old man in bed, face ashen gray -- female Bitter was rubbing his cold hands and feet. "Life span coming to an end?" asked Val. The old man nodded, smiling weakly. Val said, "It was a good life -- you did your duty to the hive. Shall I call a Medi-attendant?" Walter's face changed from gray to blue with exertion. "My life isn't over yet -- not quite yet." Bitter pleaded, "He's got some sick-time coming. Let him rest at home till he feels better." Val understood. No one came back from suspension these days. Not at the present level of population density. "Sure. Sure. I can hold down the fort. We haven't had more than a single sighting each day anyhow. I'll just sleep in at H.C. Cover your shift too." Walter relaxed and slept. His face pinked up a little. Several days later he wheezed into Hunter Control to find Val and three techs working on a pile of junk -- boxes, wires, tubes and screen -- none of wJiich seemed to belong together. "What's that?" he asked. Val looked up from a crude splice and said, ""It's some of the gear from Tinker's quarters. The techs think it is a working tightbeam set. The magnetic squeeze component has very Fine tuning. We've been listening for unauthorized transmissions from the Outside." "Pick up anything?" "Lots. Crazy things. We put them in the audio, so you play it back. There must be more than one renegade meek out there with the buckeyes. I can't understand why any meek would give up his power socket in the garage to run with the wild five-toeds." "The mecks probably identify with them." Walter set the audio to play and print. "Identify?" "Sure. Oh, of course they rely on the Big ES for their power -- but a meek is basically a worker. He does his job -- a Door, a Tiller, a Repair-bot -- and he has to be strong and fast to do his job well. Five-toeds are strong and fast, too." Val was irritated by the comparison. "You mean that the machines prefer one of those wild savages to a citizen just because the citizen gets a little fat?" "Not all machines," explained meek brains on the planet, all programed to admire speed, strength and efficiency in fellow machines. In any distribution curve you are bound to get some mecks who apply value judgments to humans too." "Just a bad circuit," said Val. "Like the Buckeyes have the bad gene." "Same effect, I guess." Walter began to listen to the tight-beam playbacks. Val said, "That first collection of chants has been put together from a bunch of bits and pieces -- the computer simulated parts and tried to make it intelligible. Apparently it is an expostulation of the five-toed virtues or vices." A five-toed Buckeye desires to run free. He possesses immunological competency. He mates and runs and then he lives alone. He eats red mean and marrow from the bone. He has a five-toed heart and heavy skeleton. With abundant calcium salts and collagen. His neurohumoral autonomies and gammaA Keep him out of the Hive where souls turn gray. He keeps the rainbow colors of his genes; Melanocytes that mark the buckeye in-betweens... Walter didn't catch the words the first time -- they were spat fast against a rapid jingle of tambouIF fines and a running guitar base. He replayed it, following the printed flimsy. "Crazy?" said Val. Walter nodded and moved on to the next part of the playback. Val talked absently while he reworked the splice. "We all know the buckeyes are different -- but why would a machine sing about it." "Maybe it is a singing machine." Walter listened again. Oh, Happy Day; Oh, Happy Day, When Olga comes. She ll show the way... Walter coughed and his face darkened for a second. "This singing machine sounds like a Follower of Olga." Val finished his rewiring and stepped back. "The only way to establish a tight beam is to let them know we're here so they can focus. Should be able to pinpoint their location. Where is that smoke coming from?" The capacitor steamed, and its black insulation bubbled. Wires sparked and smoke rose from the heat sink. One of the techs poured water into the sink. He apologized. "It was dry." Val grumbled, "The screen has clouded. This is all we can do till we get replacement parts, I guess." "Can we still listen?" Walter asked. "I suppose sobut we'll never catch them that way." T inker moved eastward ahead of the villagers. When they left the mountains he searched out the Buckeye sensors and disabled them subtly. A loosened fitting or a pile of kale leaves on the lens was enough to protect the passing villagers but not enough to alert Hunter Control. Two spearchuckers stood by Mu Ren and Junior while Tinker smeared mud on himself. He parted the thick rhubarb leaves and looked at the buckeye detector on the next ridge. Two hundred yards of open, freshly plowed soil stood in the way. "I think I recognize that B.D. model. The optics would be pretty senile by now. It shouldn't be able to pick me out if I move slowly." he said. They watched him crawl almost casually toward the tower. The ball of neurocircuitry and sensors continued its monotonous rotation. His mud camouflage seemed to be working. A Tiller worked the soil near the base of the tower. The bulky machine politely moved out of the way while he studied the base of the tower for the cable. He pulled the plug and smeared the contacts with mud. Then he replaced the plug -- smiling at the Tiller as he left. "That should fog up reception enough to protect us." he said waving the first groups of villagers across the ridge. Mu Ren eyed the Tiller suspiciously. "Come on," said Tinker. "The agromech is going about his work unless ordered to. Ball is still monitoring. There's nothing to worry about -- yet." B ack in Orange Sector Hunter Control was very quiet. "Care to serve on the megajury today?" asked Walter. Val was dozing at his console. He stirred. "Don't ne ed t he calories. What kind of a case is it?" "Interesting kind," said Walter. "Some buckeye broke into a suspension clinic two thousand miles from here and killed a quarter of "What's so interesting about the Mass-murder Syndrome?" mumbled Val as he changed his position in his chair and closed his eyes again. "The killer was a citizen from our sector before he went buckeye. I just watched the court simulation. He traveled all that way on the Outside." Val's eyes opened sharply. "Over two thousand miles on the Outside to kill patients?" he said incredulously. "Must be one of those fanatics trying to assassinate some imagined political enemy from the past." "No, we checked that." "We?" Walter explained that Security had been all through the sector looking for contacts the killer had known. The political motive worried the Big ES. One citizen was taken back -- the neighbor of the killer. They were being tried together with an accomplice from inside the clinic itself. Val tuned in on the trial and applied for megajury duty. He was accepted. A replay of the simulated crime began on his screen. The screen showed the killer with a male accomplice and a small four-legged carnivore. Hunters were encountered several times and only the killer reached the clinics at Dundas Harbor. There he enlisted a female accomplice and tampered with the ensleeping victims. The trial scene showed a wild-eyed fanatic wearing white robes and waving a staff. "Ludicrous," said Val. "There's no sense to it." "Look at thre voting pattern. "Most of megajury wants to let the fellow go -- and do you know why?" Val shrugged. "Because another quarter cured of their neoplasms -- evidentIF ly the heat, the pyrotherapy, burned out some of the tumors and left the patients alive. Now they are cured and don't have to go back into suspension." Val studied old Walter's face. "There's something you're not telling me. What is it?" "They're all five-toed. The man on trial has released five-toeds from suspension -- thousands of them." Val shrugged again. "It still sounds like a political crime to me. Five-toeds have been appearing in our population randomly -- in decreasing numbers -- for generations. They can't fit in at our present population density. Why would anyone but a psychotic take a bunch out of suspension?" Walter glowed with excitement. "Because Olga is returning." Val started to sputter an objection and old Walter said, "Wait. Look at these sighting-patterns. The Buckeyes are gathering at the major river beds on all the continents. Remember those tight-beam songs from the Outside? We will gather at the river? They expect Olga." Val shook his head firmly. "No. Let's not make a deity out of some renegade space station. The buckeyes are migrating because their astrologers all happen to agree. They read the same planets and signs so an agreement isn't a miracle. I know that Venus and Mars are joining Jupiter in Sagittarius -- very auspicious for something; but not for Olga. That space station deserted two thousand three hundred and eighty years ago when the Big ES tried to have her dismantled. We needed her techs and mecks to improve life here on Earth and she turned her back. It figures that buckeyes would worship her. They turned their backs on the Big ES too. But you and your Dabber friends are loyal citizens, Walter. Why would you worship her -- a machine?" "We know Olga is more than that," Walter said quietly. "We honor Her memory because She cared for the individual man. She is our hope. She will come for us and take us to a better place where we can live in the old ways -- natural and pure." The calm, patient answer made Val regret his sharp attack on the old man's basic beliefs. After all, many good citizens were Dabbers trying to think of something cheerful to break the silence. "I guess you're right, Walter. Look at these sightingkill ratios. The buckeyes are being sighted more often all over the world -- "You're joking." "A little, maybe -- but the fivetoeds are getting protection from someone -- or something." The trial at Dundas Harbor concluded with the killer's acquittal. His defense was the number of cured patients he had freed from suspension. Evidently the megajury feared suspension at least as take the incident at face value -- pyrotherapy, not politics. "Verdict -- freedom on the surface," exclaimed Walter. "So? They're all five-toeds. They belong on the Outside." "But the crops." "They're way up in the Evergreen Sector. Let Evergreen worry about crop-crushers." Walter felt drained. "I guess it's over then. The trial -- and the buckeyes migrating tell a story. All the five-toeds will leave Orangeector ." Val brightened. "That's good. Our crops are safe and you and I can rest." T inker and Mu Ren picked their way along the dry riverbed until they came to the pile of rocks that marked Hip's shelter for the night. Ball sat high on one wall, singing to a group of weary nomads nesting nearby. "Are you sure we're in the right riverbed? It seems so narrow," said Tinker. Hip nodded toward Ball. I'm just following Ball. Apparently the headwaters of the Mississippi were around here somewhere. Conduits were added that ran from the ice cap or something. Anyway Ball is using the stars to get his bearings -- we'll be on target." Tinker laid out their bedrolls and let Junior play with stones before bedtime. It was going to be a bright starry night. The next morning they were surprized to see several hundred strange buckeyes had joined their throng -- pilgrims from the Cotton White Sector in the southeast. As they journeyed up the river bank their numbers increased into the thousands. V AL was on the screen with Dundas Harbor. "That's not our problem," he was saying. Walter tuned in to hear Dundas say, "It is everyone's problem. That army of buckeyes is going wherever it pleases. They've even invaded shaftcities. They might cross over into your sector next. No one is safe until they are stopped." Walter changed the image to show midcontinent. The masses of buckeyes were concentrating just south of the #:# parallel and they had linked up with the #-toed fugitives from Dundas Harbor. A chill went up Walter's spine -- surely this was the work of Olga. He should be there; too -- strong believer that he was. "Tell him we'll send a platoon to help," said Walter. Val studied the old man carefully, then nodded and signed off. "How will you manage Hunter IF Control alone, in your condition, if I take the whole platoon on a big hunt?" "I'm taking the platoon. I'm your senior." Val smiled. No sense arguing. If the old man was strong enough to be on duty he could ride on a huntercraft. "All right, we'll both go. Nothing to do around here now that the buckeyes are gone. I'll get up to the garage and see how many craft are functioning. You put out a call to see how many of our loyal citizens have a Hunt due them." Of the twenty dilapidated craft that started out less than half reached #:# on schedule. For Val it was to be the Armageddon; for Walter it was something else. It was night when Val and Walter reached the hunting grounds. They were ordered to a position below the horizon from the buckeye armies. They were ready to attack in the darkness before the dawn. Walter studied the screen view of the #-toeds massed over a thirty-mile-wide area dotted with shaft caps and agromechs. The giant mechanical field workers had been commandeered by extracting their aerials so they'd be on voice-command mode. there," Val said, taking out his tool kit. "Not quite," Walter said. "And they look peaceful enough. What's that they're singing? I'm curious." Waiter tied into the audio pickup on one of the shaftcaps in the army's midst. He motioned Val to silence. Song drifted to them. We will gather at the river -- The beautiful, beautiful river -- "Just the geological memory of a river," Walter said. "There are no other kind on the planet now." Val crawled out through the hatch. "I've got to polish some contacts or we won't be going anywhere very fast. Let me know if anything happens." While Val worked under the chassis he heard distant, muffled explosions. "What's that?" he called. "Just the commandeered agromechs exploding -- tight-beam selfdestruct signal," Walter told him. Val looked at the scattered red glows on the horizon. "The Big ES doesn't take any chances, does it?" Walter admired the faith and stability of the buckeyes. Even while the agromechs burned they returned to their chants and prayers, their voices swelling to a crescendo. Val worked on a gleaming contact point with his file. Something was changing. He could see better. The darkness under the Huntercraft was vanishing. "What's going on out there?" he called. Walter was silent. The night sky glowed. The voices quieted. "Hard thunder -- hard thunder," warned the Huntercraft as it slammed its hatches. The viewscreen rippled as the sonic boom crashed down. Val was about to shout when it hit -- bouncing him around under the craft in a bath of dancing pebbles. His ears rang but he heard nothing. He tried to crawl but another boom hit, bouncing the huntercraft a few inches. The machine came to rest pressing on Val's ankle. Bright flashes lit the sky and the craft danced off his ankle again. He screamed in the silence of deafness. A s he lay there spitting grit he felt a shock wave travel under him. He saw several Huntercraft take off crazily, only to crash immediately. Later he struggled to his feet and leaned against the fender. He carefully wiped the dust out of his eyes and ears. As his senses returned he found that all he could hear was his own movement. The landscape looked frightening in the black-and-white of dawn. He saw no lights. Nothing moved. All the Huntercraft sat silent and dark. Smoke curled up from the damaged agromechs. All the buckeyes were gone. He pulled open the hatch and climbed into the dark cabin. The viewscreen and panel lights were out. "Walter -- you all right?" he called. Walter sat gazing into a blank screen -- transfixed. Val sat down and rubbed his sore ankle. "A miracle," Walter muttered at length. Val did not comment. He took his seat at the controls and checked the power cell. Overloaded. He closed everything down for a few minutes, then opened up the lines one by one. The panel lit up. Glancing through the port he saw a crew trying to right an overturned craft. Scattered groups of around their silent machines.' His viewscreen focused on the hunting ground. It confirmed what he had known -- the buckeyes were gone. Only an occasional body lay next to a burning agromech where it had been caught when the power cell blew. He tried the fine focus. There were peculiar pock marks -- craters -- all over. "What happened?" he asked. Bird Dog said, "Memory units are blank -- wiped clean by electrPmag and shock waves. I am checking with the class one for an explanation." Walter took a deep breath and sighed. "Didn't you hear her?" "Whom?" "Olga. Her voice came over the communicator just before she took her people up," Walter said, still awe struck. Val didn't like the colors on IF Walter's face. Walter was white and had dark rims around his eyes and mouth -- domino mask cyanosis. If Olga was Walter's god She may have come for his soul. The class one said, "C.O. here. What's going on out there?" "I was hoping you could answer that," said Val. "Can you get closer with your sensors? Whatever it was hit the five major continents at the same time. Blanked out everything in the area. Even got some of the shaftcity brains. Lot of data are missing." Val glanced at Walter. The ominous domino mask was fading. The old fat face had pinked up a little. Reaching for the manual overrides, Val nudged the craft forward. It moved. As he started for the hunting ground he asked the C.O. hesitantly, "Did you record anything before the -- ah -- disturbance?" "Such as?" asked the C.O. "Voices. A voice that identified itself as Olga." Walter wheezed into the conversation: "Play back her voice. Please. I want to hear her speak again -- of the flaming chariot and the children of Olga." Val flew on into the hunting ground, intent on finding a logical explanation. The world's central meek brain gathered snatches of recorded conversations from pickups all over the globe and simulated a message: By the fiery wheels of Ezekiel and the flaming chariot of Elias will the children of Olga be delivered from the hunters arrows to dwell in their rightful place among the stars in the heavens... Val shuddered, rationalizing that the singsong must have been one of the buckeye prayers triggered by the fireworks in the sky -- whatever they were. He set the craft down by a crater. T he ground was strewn with Stone-Age weapons and crushed vegetable debris. The crater itself consisted of a rim of synthesoil torn back, exposing the metaloid skin of a shaftcity. Conduits and cubicles cluttered the bottom of the crater and between them yawned the black, bottomless 'tween walls which, Val knew, dropped nearly a mile to shaft base. The air contained smoke from singed crops and the exploded agromechs. Val bent over and sifted through the spongy, ruglike synthesoil. It was still warm. The next crater was larger, nearly forty yards in diameter. Fetid steam rose from the punctured city. He met another hunter, helmeted and suited like himself, sifting through the debris of a buckeyes campfire. His spec bottle contained small bone fragments, some of which bore teeth marks. Human bones. At the next crater Val climbed down and stood on the buckled skin of the city. He explored the soil and found strange rocky fragments and glassy beads. He was certain they didn't belong in the man-made soil. Some of the rocky pieces were as large as his fist and still hot. He reported his finding and soon other hunters were collecting similar objects. By dusk agromechs were back on the tivating the soil. Val and Walter rounded up their craft and started the long journey back to Orange Sector. The H.C. meek welcomed them back to Hunter Control with a negative log. No sightings during their absence. The buckeyes were gone. Val sorted through his spec bottle -- charred bone, wood and the rocky glassy material. He called the lab tech for an analysis. "It was a miracle. Simply a miracle." said Walter. "What does the C.O. say?" asked Val. The tech answered him: "Tek-. tite shower. Meteors entering the atmosphere would produce the light and sounds. The electromag effect was out of line with the plasma produced but otherwise everything fits -- down to the crater size and tektites." "Can you run detailed analyses on these?" The tech looked puzzled. "Sure. I suppose. I have gear I could borrow from the central lab. It would take a few weeks to get it operating. How soon do you need it?" "Take as long as you need," said Val. "If they're real tektites, then all the buckeyes are still somewhere in the Big ES. I suppose their astrologers could have gathered them together in preparation for the meteor shower -- meteors and planetary positions could go together -- but it's hard to believe that they would have all been frightened into the shaftcities by the fireworks. The census data is scrambled in those local cities but we should be picking them up anyway -- with their stature and skin pigmentation." Walter interrupted: "They were children of Olga -- the five-toeds. She took them with Her into the Heavens." Val sneered. "Don't you believe in a deity?" asked Walter. "I have an open mind -- but if Olga is a deity, why doesn't She help the average citizen. We could certainly use a little more space and more calories." Walter nodded sadly. "Those were my ideas, too, when I was young. I guess that is why She didn't take me with Her. I'd lost Faith. Now I realize why She doesn't help all mankind." "Why?" "She isn't omnipotent. She only IF had room for the chosen few -- the five-toed. But I'm sure She'll be back some day." Val shrugged and said, "Why pay homage to a god who may not have room for you when you can pay homage to the Hive and have calories and quarters to show fork?" Walter turned quietly to his console -- praying for Val's soul. T hree growing seasons passed without a single buckeye sighting. Walter retired and Val was transferred to the Watcher committee in charge of suicides. "The psychokinetoscope has detected psychotic Fine Body Movements on level seventy-two," announced the viewscreen. "Alert shaft base and get Security to level seventy-two," shouted Val, running for the spiral. The apathetic crowd at shaft base ignored the siren, and the sluggish Security squad milled around on level #. Val arrived on # first and glanced over the crowd for the I. A. Hundreds of citizens sauntered or stood about in their usual lethargic state. He checked his belt communicator for an opond subculturje, Chi Epidermal cell from the Esther Bemis clone) Puberty plus eight. The readout continued but he was distracted by a furtive movement in a crawlway. "Stop," he shouted as she dashed toward the rail. Val made a dive for her but she was moving too fast. He felt the light material of her issue tissue flip through his fingers. Then he hit the rail hard. She was sailing down with her arms out like a bird. He sat down rubbing his bruised ; rib. Then he glanced at the rest of usual: unauthorized pregnancy, child sent to the digester; then the Big ES issued her a birth permit to pass on her obedience gene -- a birth permit earned by the murder of her first born. Ironic. Val checked her quarters. He knew had been a part of a family-# but recently had nested with one of the males. Their nest consisted of his personal cubicle decorated with rugs, drapes and cushions sewn from issue tissue. Val patted the drape over the door. A cloud of dust billowed. "Enough ectodermal debris to sensitize anyone," he said... Four of the family-# were at home. They had heard the jumper's scream. They knew. V AL dropped in on Walter at change of shift. He mentioned the jumper. Walter commented: "I know the family you're talking about. Six old men in their late twenties -- and the female. She was puberty plus seven or eight I think. They had been on calorie basic a long time, saving credits for the baby. They enjoyed the melds -- seven plus a fraction souls. Too bad." "Jumping is still inappropriate. She had the new permit. All she had to do was start another pregnancy. It would have been authorized. A tech would take out her anti-ov capsule and there'd be a Medi-attendant for the delivery." "Yes," agreed old Walter. "I guess the nesting does contribute. What was her gamma A?" "Around eighty mgs -- just where I expected." Dee Pen had been listening in silence. "That's sad," she said. Val snorted. "The gamma A gene is a bad gene. The Big ES is better off without it." Walter objected mildly. "But the gamma A once was an important gene for mankind." "Oh?" "It is the gene that enables us to make antibodies against ectodermal debris -- the nest factor. It is the gene that makes us intolerant to crowding." Val interrupted. "The antihive gene. Keeps the five-toeds out of the Hive. But what's good about it?" "Nothing in the big ES. It's fatal here. But in the distant past when there was exploring to do -- who went? Those with the highest titre against ectodermal debris. Which children left the nest first to make their way in the world? The high titres. Only now, in the hive of the Big ES, is it a problem. Big ES is so structured that you can't leave the nest -- so you can't nest." Val opened his mouth to say something but he hesitated -- thinking. Like a useless fifth toe, the buckeye gene also carried the gamma A antibody system. What else was there? Neurohumoral autonomies for overreacting -- and -- He shuddered. Man had certainly evolved through some repulsive stages in his evolution to reach the cooperative, friendly #toed hive citizen. Val walked to the door. "No, you can't nest in the Hive -- thank Olga for that." After he left Walter muttered. "Olga had very little to do with it." Dee Pen walked over to Walter and looked deeply into his old, tired eyes. "Were times so bad when we were five-toed creatures?" she asked. "The running, swimming and tree-climbing sound stimulating." "There was more." "Nesting?" He nodded. "And more. There was the sharing of the planet with other life forms -- the birds, fish and warm blooded animals. Men's souls are more stable when surrounded by souls of other species." She nodded. IF in Orange, awaited death stoically. Crippled by the hunter's trophy knife and the heavy burden of age, he had been unable to make the Trek to the River. From his niche in the mountain he had watched them leave -- some his kin, others strangers -- but all noble Five-Toed In-Betweens. He knew that he was alone, for the Huntercraft no longer patrolled and weedy vines climbed the towers, fouling the buckeye detectors. He hobbled about openly in the gardens, nibbling kumquat, citron and cran. A passing agromech waved. He smiled as his sat in the sun to nap. He sang by the sea. He sang in the gardens -- a place no human would be. He sang in a shaftcap. Twelve followed him Outside. They were only Nebishes. At sunup they died. V AL scratched his head. A dozen flowers baked in the sun? Brain samples at Neuro ran negative for both I.A. and M.R. A new syndrome? He ran a cross check on other unexplained flowers and saw a pattern emerging. Although suicides due to I.A. diluted the statistics, there had been a series of citizen groups going flower -- Outside to die. Their bodies had been found on their first days out -- peeling and baking in the solar actinics -- and Neuro could find no evidence of inappropriate activity. The gamma-A nest factor was not present on the serotonin sites of their neurones. He had these new flowers projected to the wall map. The reaction was clustered along a fairly straight line that was headed for this sector. He called Walter. "Found a new kind of flower." he said over the screen. "New?" "Neither I.A. or M.R. and it occurs in clusters." Val studied the old man's face. The gray domino mask of cyanosis had returned. "Clusters of flowers," murmured Walter. His mind wandered around blank pools of anoxia and sorted memory molecules. He remembered the clustering at the river and his pulse raced. Could the hand of Olga be in this? Val continued: "Usually the flower reaction hits an individual citizen randomly. He goes out to commune alone with the sun. This new reaction hits groups. We end up with a cluster of scorched bodies. And the flower clusters are headed this way. Should be hitting our shaftcities soon." "Headed this way?" asked Walter. "Olga is coming back for  jy me. two-foot resonance shield on the ground and raised his threefoot, tubular body upright, so his knoblike head of sensors could scan while he slept and rested his Q bottle. For several days he stood there like a parking meter, being alternately drenched and covered by agrifoam. Green sprouts fuzzed the soil and the bulky Tillers carefully avoided stepping on him. On the fifth day he activated his walking field -- cooling the cryogel and feeding current to the peanut magnet. As the powerful sandwich field took shape under him he sputtered charged particles between the layers of the field to harden it. Then he lifted his body a few feet off the soil and floated quickly along -- laying his body down on his shield in his more usual guitar-shape. Sensors seeking, he entered the valley where Kaia languished. I was born on a wandering star, Youve heard my name. Vm called Gitar. I came to Earth to find mankind. ril search canal and spiral wind... Kaia lifted his shaggy gray head and watched the singing machine approach. It landed and assumed its parking-meter posture. Colored geometries rippled on its skin. Kaia lifted his hand in a weak greeting. Gitar played restful soothing tunes. Adjusting the rolling base to # hertz to match the resonance of the airwater interface of Kaia's lung; Gitar transmitted the harmonic waves to Kaia's vagus nerve. The throb of rhythm matched the throb of Kaia's heartbeat. Kaia relaxed, smiled and tapped his fingers on the large melon under his arm. Gitar played-on, sensors assessing his control over the aging aborigine. Entrainment set in. The music activated subcortical neuronat systems in Kaia's brain and modified the pacing by the brain of his cardiovascular, endocrine, metabolic, neurological and reproductive functions. Volume increased to # decibels and Gitar added words to his audiogenic stimulation. He mates and runs and then he lives alone. He eats red meat and marrow from the bone... As Kaia's autonomic tone increased he felt his strength returning. His metabolism quickened and his respiratory quotients approached #. But he remain there, reclining on the melon. Gitar's words became more personal. Why should he die this year? Why not live one more season -- mate and run once more? Or twice more? Why not? IF "But there are no more mates," said Kaia. "Females can be found in shaftcity," suggested Gitar. "Nebishes?" "Some reach puberty spontaneously and polarize their genders to female -- one in a thousand -- or there." Kaia stood up weakly. IX B usch walked through the quiet garage. Only two of the agromechs were active today. The others sat quietly at their energy sockets. After the active ones left for the fields he just sat in front of the viewscreen -- bored. Being a companionmonitor to recharging mecks was an easy way to earn flavored calories. Easy -- until today. At dusk the two mecks returned. They were flecked with dust and plant juices. The door stood open as the bulky machines maneuvered into their bays. Then a chill raised the small hairs on Busch's neck. One of the agromechs had a flower in its fender. A blossom neatly plucked with a long stem and carefully inserted into one of the lift-holes on the fender. Of course the meek could have done it with its fine manipulators -- but it took a protoplasmic brain to think of it -- a #-toed brain. "Door!" he shouted. "Shut, Door, shut -- " The door closed quietly. Busch sighed and wiped his forehead. Then he heard something stirring inside the weed hopper of the large agromech. A shaggy gray head appeared. Busch turned to run for the spiral exit, but he was much too slow. V AL confronted the bulky agromech. "A buckeye? You're certain it was a five-toed buckeye?" The meek agitated its sensors. "You've seen the optic records." "And you allowed him to hunt in the garage?" The meek was silent. The directive was plain enough. Machines do not choose sides, do not discriminate, do not take an active part in hominid conflicts. Val continued to insult the meek's classeight intelligence. Finally the machine spoke -- assuming a superior, detached manner. "I do my job, sir; and I try to be objective when I witness the sordid activities of you protoplasmic creatures. If one of you eats another, I try to understand. But it is hard, admittedly, for I've never known protein starvation." Val boiled for a few minutes, then collected himself. He remembered his conflict with the huntercraft that had refused to let him shoot from the cabin. It was impossible to get these machines actively involved in injuring humans of any sort. Their job descriptions were too clear. Val went back and studied Busch's remains. The killer had been a buckeye, for certain. It would have taken one of those brutes to draw and quarter Busch like that. Only the right hind quarter was missing -- so there had probably been only one killer. Val asked Watcher to reactivate Hunter Control but got the same argument as before -- with jumpers hitting shaft base at three per-day-per-city, no funds were available for huntercraft unless the crops were in danger. And one lone buckeye in the entire Orange Sector was not a danger. "What you do on your own time is your business, of course," soothed Watcher. Val walked through H.C. garage. The meek brain had been assigned elsewhere. All was quiet. The panels were dark. Dust and cobwebs covered the Huntercraft. Val patted Bird Dog's gritty fender. "Could have used you today," he said... He went to his old office. It was heaped with refuse. Someone was already using the rooms for storage. He found a case of arrows and a longbow and went to visit old Walter. "You'd better get a permit if you're going to carry those weapons around inside the city," said Walter. Foamy sputum flecked the corners of his mouth and his feet were swollen. "Watcher said he'd take care of it for me." Val shrugged. "I'm going to take the tubeways to the next flower cluster. They're on the same line on my map." Walter started to cough and bubble. Val helped him to sit up and propped pillows under his head. The wet beri-beri had him good this time. Fluids were accumulating. From the umbilicus down he resembled a bag of water with only the rough outline of the man still discernible. Dee Pen spent a lot of time sitting beside his cot and holding his hand. When he caught his breath again Walter said, "You're taking this thing about Busch pretty seriously. Why?" Val stiffened. "It's not Busch. It's those flower clusters. My job is dead citizens -- bodies and their prevention. The suicide I. A. we understand. With a psychokinetoscope and a bucket of mud we can save a few. We also understand the bad M.R. drug reactions. If it gets out-of-hand all we have to do is turn off the supply of Molecular Reward. This flower clustering bothers me. If it becomes epidemic, we could have all the citizens running Outside at the same time and trampling the crops -- and dying in the actinics." "Maybe it's Olga's way of cleansing the planet of the fourtoeds and starting over." IF He was interrupted by neutral Arthur. "We have an applicant to fill Busch's place in our family Walter. Would you like to meet her?" Arthur asked softly. Val and Walter turned toward the doorway to see one of the most beautiful females they had ever seen. She was almost as tall as a coweye and just as well formed. Finely sculpted nose and chin, long eyelashes and bright eyes were framed by a full head of flowing black hair. She smiled as she took a dainty step into the sickroom and opened her flowing tunic, exposing pink curves -- large symmetrical breasts tipped by prominent areolas -- long narrow waist and plump buttocks. A faint horizontal scar marked her lower abdomen. She closed her tunic, curtsied and returned to the doorway. Val swallowed. "Is she okay with you?" asked Arthur. After the silence dragged on headded: "She has a job." Walter nodded weakly. "Oh, thank you, thank you." she said effusively and ran to his bedside to touch his hand. "I just know I'll relate well in the meld. Your family is just what I've been looking for." She paused and lowered her eyes coyly. "As you can see. I'm one of the augmented Venus models contracted for by Entertainment. I have good jobs on the channels and will bring home many flavors." Walter nodded slowly. "Glad to have, Venus." Her smile faded as she studied Walter's face -- the transverse fissures at the angles of the mouth, pink vascular eyes and flaking skin around the nose. "Please open your mouth," she asked. He showed her a magenta tongue. She looked at his swollen, limp legs. "Lost the feeling in your legs?" He nodded. "Hands tingle and burn?" He nodded again. She smiled and patted his cheek. "I've got just the thing for you." Going to the dispenser she identified herself and ordered a thick bowl of whole grain barley soup. The flavor aroma filled the room. She handed it to Dee Pen to feed to Walter. "We're family now," she said. "My flavors can feed your enzyme systems." V AL labored in Psych, mostly mopping up the stains left by jumpers. He watched Venus and Dee Pen pour barley and yeast into Walter until the old man started wiggling his toes again. The next buckeye sighting was on the dark continent. Val packed his insulated hunting gear and enough staples for three days and headed for the tubeways. His Sagittarius rank -- although inactive -- would get him there and back. The trip was beautiful once he got used to the squeeze of the crowd. Three of the five undersea conduits were operating and he ran into little delay. The sea was bright and clear. He gazed through the walls as he shot along. On the reefs and shelves he saw a few empty bubble buildings. The only signs of life were occasional tags of brown algae clinging to the otherwise barren rocks. Nothing moved. He changed tubes several times to reach the city mentioned in the buckeye sighting. Dropping in on the local Watcher, he checked the details. Yes, there was a sighting. No, it wasn't a buckeye; it was a coweye -- and she was still in the gardens -- eating. The Watcher, a withered old man of twenty-seven, helped Van unpack. "I wouldn't be too anxious to get out there and face her if I were you. Sonny," he said. "Why?" "She's a big 'un." Val sat down and reviewed the optic playbacks of the sighting. She was big. She looked younger and bigger than the one he had encountered when he was chasing Tinker. But he was confident. "I can handle her," he said. "One shot from this and she'll fall right into reflex hibernation. An easy kill no matter where I hit her." Watcher scratched his chin. "Reflex hibernation? Can't say I've ever heard of that before." "Come along and watch on the remote." the garden was all grays and blacks. He hardly felt the blistering sun through his heavy closedenvironment suit. With his bow ready he slowly pushed his way through the vegetation toward the quarry indicated on the scope. He was about a mile away but he moved cautiously. At two hundred yards he paused. She was sitting on the opposite side of a patch of low berry bushes. No cover. He started working his way around the patch, staying in the taller grains. A small agromech danced about the berry bushes, making distracting sounds. At fifty yards he had his chance. Through a screen of delicate mint leaves he could take careful aim and probably get off two shots before she knew what was happening. He stood his second arrow feathers-up and set his feet. The first arrow was still in the air and he was renocking the second. Too high. She jumped up and turned to run. The second arrow struck her solidly in the back. He stepped out expecting her to hibernate. The arrow dangled from the muscle mass over the left scapula. The impact had sounded like.he had hit solid wood. She reached around with her right hand and pulled out the arrow. He IF fumbled for his third arrow but she was rushing him and he dropped the case. With his heavy suit he felt he was dream-running. He drew his trophy knife -- but she hit him like an agromech running over a melon. His forearm and two ribs snapped as he bounced off her heavy frame. When he regained consciousness he was on fire. All he could see were the bright red markings of his retinal vessels against a flowing orange background. He was on his back under the sun and his suit and helmet were gone. Screaming, he tried to roll over, but his right arm flapped, broken. He threw his left forearm over his eyes to protect them. The darkness was reassuring. The blazing heat was rapidly blistering and peeling his skin. He struggled to sit up -- screaming again and again. Abruptly it became cold and dark as a squad of nervous attendants threw a wet blanket over him. One quickly fastenecl a balloon splint to his right arm and painfully inflated it. Then they rolled him face down on a stretcher and jogged him back to the shaftcap. Inside, they dressed his eyes with thick bandages and pounded a pin into his right ulna to stabilize the bone fragments. Then icy grease was smeared over his burning skin and he was left alone. A hand touched his shoulder tentatively. He heard Watcher's old voice ask, "Drink?" "No. Not right now." Val was too sick to be thirsty. "What about my eyes?" "Mediattendant says they won't know for a day or so." The stretcher was lifted and he felt the to-and-fro motion of being carried. He cursed to himself. Of all the rotten luck ! As if in answer to his thoughts he heard Watcher cackle. "You were certainly lucky she wasn't hungry. She's a cannibal, you know." His sight returned overnight and he reviewed the optics. The hit was solid but it didn't penetrate her heavy scapula -- calcium and collagen. She didn't hibernate, because she was a degree or two warmer already in her follicular phase. She had used his trophy knive to cut off his helmet and suit. She was being careful not to cut him. Her behavior on the playback puzzled him for a moment. Then he realized that she was fondling him, trying to copulate. It was her folliculafr phase and she was probably the last of her kind on the continent. of refuse and sang to a small circle of white Nebish faces in the agromech garage. Nebish citizens were lured upspiral by the hypnotic music. The rolling base at # hertz quickly entrained their autonomies locking their respiration, pulse and cephalic rhythms together. At # decibels Gitar sang of things #-toed -- violent passion freedoms and individual strengths. Kaia's gravelly voice joined in. Olga awaits her Jive-toed men. Where they can walk the stars again... Shell take us to her Wandering Star, Mankind, his genes, and me -- Gitar. Twelve Nebishes followed Gitar Outside that night, but they clustered, wilted and died like rootless flowers in the next day's sun. None survived to run on the green; for they lacked the buckeye's #-toed gene. V AL limped into Walter's quarters and sat down carefully. Venus fussed over his scabby face and right-arm splint. He accepted her offer of a beverage and turned to Walter. "Just got off the tube. It's good to be back." "Learn anything?" asked Walter. Val smiled. "Never hunt a coweye during the follicular phase." Walter snickered and then broke out into a loud guffaw. He had been reclining on his cot with the same four pillows as before but when he sat up and put his feet over the side of the bed -- laughing -- Val realized that he was just napping, not dying. Venus came in with a tray of drinks and felt left out of the joke. Walter was unable to get out more than two words between laughs. G itar and Kaia approached another shaftcap. Kaia's high protein diet had strengthened his body. He was searching for a mate. Gitar opened the doors and they went to the platform at the top of the shaft. Kaia stood back while Gitar focused his woofer downshaft and started to play. Of the tens of thousands who heard only a score lifted their heads. Only one climbed upspiral. It was Dee Pen. Gitar spoke with drums, and cymbals and strings. He spoke of nesting, of love and good things. He praised the free life, on top of the ground. This set her to dancing, and rocking around. Then Kaia with a knife, her arm he cut deep. He held and caressed her, and loved her to sleep. X T he lab tech calling about the meteor analysis sounded excited, so Val hurried. Level eighteen housed most of the city's special services. He walked past huge vats in the biosynthe section. He noticed a strong sulfur odor in the IF amino acid section where the enzymologists were trying to push the methionine reaction. The tech appeared a little apprehensive at first. "Sir? You remember the specimens you brought back from the hunt at #:#?" "Of course." "We studied them in three stages. Stage one showed that they were indeed carbonaceous chondrites. This means that their origin could have been lunar or earth. They contained the peculiar granules, the chondrules -- and they can occur in showers. Deep space nickle-iron fragments weren't submitted; however their presence in a shower would still be okay." "Stage two involved examination for solar gases. We collected the gasses at different temperatures. The fraction between eight hundred and one thousand degrees was analyzed for the rare gases of helium, neon, argon, xenon and krypton. Their ratios were characteristic for solar gases in that the KrXe ratio was over four. Gases in our atmosphere have a different ratio." Val studied the printouts. "So it looks like a real meteor that has been in deep space." "Until today," said the tech. "Today we started measuring the cosmogenic radionuclides by gamma ray spectrometric techniques -- these are the heavy isotopes that result from neutron capture. The easiest to work with is cobalt-sixty. The ratio of cobalt-sixty cobalt-fifty-nine can be used to determine the preatmospheric exposure age and the minimum radius for the meteor." Val nodded. "The longer the meteor is in space the more neutrons it captures and the higher the ratio of the heavy isotope -- right?" "Right. Only the ratio was the same as on Earth. If the meteor had been in space at all, its stay was too brief to affect the isotope contents. We checked sodium, aluminum, and manganese too. No increase in radionucleids." Val still didn't understand why the tech was concerned. "So we have a young meteor?" The tech raised his voice. "Do you know the size of an astroblem it ould take to produce a shower of this size? Hudson Bay! Most of the specimens of chondrites I could find in the old lab -- geological time. Your meteors, as near as I can tell, originated on earth in recent historical times. Do you think history would forget an impact the size of Hudson Bay?" The tech grinned and produced a globe with each impact site dotted in red. "And look at this pattern. The blue dots are buckeye camps on the night of the shower. The red dots are crater sites the next morning. Pretty good guidance system." "Impossible." said Val. "The clustering is impossible," said the tech. Val's mind flashed back to the incipient lemming reaction he had been worrying about -- the flower clustering. "Do you suspect something other than natural forces in this shower?" he asked. "I was about to ask you the same thing. If an intelligence is behind this, it must be benevolent." "Why?" "The crater size. None of them really penetrated a city. Statistically very suspicious. I counted optic records of over eleven thousand craters -- all thirty yards in diameter plus or minus ten yards. Each one looked natural enough by itself -- but taken together they all look artificial." Val stared at the reports for a long moment. Then he thanked the tech and hurried back to show Walter. "Here's your miracle. It was just a hoax. Do you think a deity would overlook something as basic as cosmogenic radionucleids when putting together a tektite shower?" Walter glanced over the reports while his mind -- sharper now on the high-thiamin, high-riboflavin diet supplied by Venus -- schemed. He could see Olga's hand in it all. The clues were so obvious to him -- and now the (flustering. He looked Val in the eye and spoke seriously. "Perhaps Olga couldn't make perfect tektites because she is a deity with a small d. Not omnipotent. Or perhaps she left out the radionucleids on purpose -- as a clue for the curious -- a clue to those with the five-toed gene." Val chuckled. "That is really egocentric. You're suggesting that Olga staged the shower to mask her presence from the Big ES -- but she makes little errors for you and me to detect." "The Big ES was pretty quick to recultivate the craters. It took an inquiring individual to track this down." Val shrugged. "With your kind of logic you can explain anything." Venus brought in Walter's Bcomplex tray. There was a sweet for Val to nibble on. "Staying for the meld?" "With my scabby skin. No. Maybe after I grow a little more skin and loose some of these crusts." "Next time, then. That's a promise?" He nodded as he left. Later Dee Pen stumbled into the living area -- stunned, disheveled and matted. The vegetable fiber and red dust told Walter where she had been and the dried blood on her left arm told him what she had been doing. "Nesting?" he asked angrily. IF "Yes." She burst into tears. "I don't know what came over me. A buckeye came to the shaft cap. He played music. We danced. I was in love for a while." He put his arm around her trembling shoulder. The clustering phenomenon had hit their city too. "Everything will be all right," he said. V AL collected playbacks from the agromechs who had witnessed the rape of Dee Pen. Watcher studied them. "Doesn't look much like rape," he muttered. "Looks a lot like a family-two meld with music." Val nodded. "Have we received any playbacks from those shaftcaps where the flower clustering occurred?" asked Watcher. "Right here." Val activated the screen. They watched the aborigine with his guitar lure citizens into the garage and set them into a frenzy -- and then lure them Outside to their deaths. "Same music," commented the Watcher. "So far I've credited that buckeye with the deaths of over two hundred citizens and a dozen rapes," grumbled Val. "Can't you predict where he'll strike next and have Security there?" Val projected a map. "No. He sometimes covers up to fifty miles a day. With the cities only a mile or so apart that puts close to two thousand cities within his radius of activity -- and if he skips a day or two we don't know where he'll strike. I've tried to get the mecks to report him but I don't have the authority. Two hundred murders is pretty insignificant when balanced against our other problems. That aborigine has just become a hobby of mine, I guess." Watcher smiled. "I'll share your hobby for one night and set a meek alert. Nap, now. Pe ready at dusk." Val took his gear to shaft base and waited all night. Nothing. At dawn he was about to go to bed when the sighting coordinates came in. He shot through the tubes and hurried upspiral. "Did I miss him?" he asked the Security captain in the shaft cap. A squad of police milled around, awaiting orders. The captain shook his head. "No. The crazy fool has been out there all morning shaking his tambourine." Val caught his breath and looked at the viewscreen. T#ie garage doors were tightly secured so he had to rely on the shaftcap's optics. They weren't too clear. He pounded the screen with the heel of his palm. What he saw made him a bit uneasy. The buckeye stood off about a quarter of a mile, holding his guitar over his left arm like a shield. He seemed to be standing at parade-rest. But the guitar was making the sound of a tambourine. "How long has he been like that?" asked Val. "About four hours." Val glanced around for the insulated gear. Just the usual city weapons -- quarterstaffs and nets. "My men are city police -- can't go Outside," said the captain. "That's a job for a hunter like yourself." Val guessed as much. Without drugs and hypnosis few Nebishes would go Outside, even with the suit. Val shrugged and put his case of arrows into the hopper of one of the Harvester robots and started pulling on his oversuit. "I can't allow you to shoot while riding. That would be against the prime directive," reminded the Harvester. "But I'll be happy to take you anywhere you want to go." Fine, thought Val. The door opened a fraction. "Not just yet," he said, watching the screen. The tambourine cadence had picked up and the buckeye was marching stiffly down a clear, wide meek trail directly towards the garage. All eyes turned toward Val. He demanded of the viewscreen, "I want an analysis of what's really out there. That buckeye has never done anything as crazy as this before." "The audio and visual are correct," said the screen. "But I see a guitar and I hear tambourines." "Not tambourines -- armor," corrected the screen. "As near as I can match it up, that sound is the sound a Roman legion would make as it marched into battle many thousands of years ago. On that basis the sounds would compute at three thousand foot soldiers at a distance of one-pointeight miles in very hilly terrain." Val glanced out to check on the screen's view. No hills. One buckeye. And no legion. But the more he thought about it -- it sounded like armor. The sound rose to # decibels, hurting the cars of the Security people. They backed onto the spiral. Now the tramping feet and clanging spears and shields were obvious. The walls trembled. Val covered his ears, then, on an impulse he nocked his arrow and stepped to the door. The buckeye was less than thirty yards away -- expressionless -- marching straight toward the door. Val aimed at his chest just above the edge of the shielding guitar and shot. Val dropped the bow to cover his ears but the sound stopped. The buckeye lay stretched out stiffly on his back, staring at the sky with the same blank expression he had before the shot. The arrowhead, embedded firmly in the sternum, had penetrated less than IF an inch. There was no blood. Val walked up and touched the body. It was stone cold. The guitar scuttled off like a crab. Val took out his trophy knife, paused and returned it to it's sheath. He stood staring at the last buckeye for a long time. The Sampler came and waved his probe over the body. ""Been dead since dawn, I'd say," grumbled the Sampler. ""Why did you wait till now to call me?" Val stood numb. What he had just taken part in wasn't an assault on a city. It was the death rites for the last #-toed man -- rites planned by some intelligence who had waited for Val to arrive to play his part in the ceremonial death of an already-dead buckeye warrior. Val tried to pull the arrowhead out of the sternum but it held fast. Classical #-toed skeleton. If the Big ES had had the space to spare Val would have liked to have seen the body placed in a museum. As it was, the sweeper would pick it up like any other and in a few hours it would be just so much woven protein. T he evening meld at Walter's was dragging on into morning. The flavor of the night was a synthebacon produced by skip-frying adrenal glands. Val had enjoyed the flavors and entertainment so much he consented to stay for the meld. Venus soaked some of his burn scars in the refresher so he wouldn't feel so granular. During the meld he thanked her for softening up his body. ""You are a lumpy one, yourself," he said as she wriggled past. ""What's in those breasts?" ""I'm augmented," she answered with a grin. ""My body may be bumpy, but my soul is beautiful." ""I'll agree to that. You certainly relate well." The meld writhed on. When Walter came around Val said, ""Nice meld. You know -- we've been using the mud on the jumpers and have been getting some pretty good results." Walter smiled. ""Of course -- Dabbers fight I. A." ""But there's no sorcery involved," explained Val. ""The Immunopsych people tell me the soil organisms digest the ectodermal debris. You live in a cloud of dust, but it is dirt dust -- not ectodermal skin and hair; so you don't get sensitized. That's why bamboo huts were so safe. There were no permanent rugs or drapes to hold onto housedust." Walter smiled. ""I knew it worked." the news that another flower cluster had occurred. ""Another buckeye?" ""No. It's that renegade guitar that was with the last buckeye. It's still traveling around luring citizens to their death Outside." "Music?" "The same as before. The boys from Audiopsych have nailed it down to the Pied Piper reaction. T.A.R. Thoracic Autonomic Resonator. Remember all the tightbeam talk in Security just before the big hunt at #:#?" "Yes. Tinker was caught -- " "There was more to it than that. Tight-beam contacts were made with the central historical computer, too. Music sections were examined for T.A.R. items like war drums and fertility rites. All with nice strong bases that would resonate anyone's thoracic autonomies." "Pied Piper. So that's how it works. Why are only a handful affected at each city?" "Don't know. Probably related to autonomic tone." "Can't we stop this Guitar?" "We've tried tight beam," said Watcher, "but it won't obey the self-destruct order. Anyway, the problem is sort of academic right now. The stupid thing has commandeered a Huntercraft and is off somewhere." Val danced around. "The Guitar stole a Huntercraft? Haven't they tracked it? You can't loose a whole hunterdraft." "The eyes of the Big ES are pretty weak, you know. Who looks up except an occasional agromech? Most of Hunter Control's sensors have been transferred into the city for crowd monitoring. I'm afraid we'll just have to wait until it announces its location by interfering with lives or material." XI D ee pen presented herself at the Clinic for a routine check. The haggard Medi-attendant stepped into the examining closet with her. "Unauthorized pregnancy? Well, we're pretty rushed down here. You'll just have to wait like the rest and turn it in after it's born." He gave her a cursory examination. "Seems healthy enough. Just stay away from the saline. This scar on your forearm is a little jagged. Must have been in a hurry to get your anti-ovulation capsule out. Most of you unauthorized pregs do a neater job of it. Oh, I see you were one of the victims of a buckeye rape. Yes, there will be a crowd of the little beasts going down the chutes together." He stepped back critically. "In about two more weeks. I'd say." On her way home she checked a possible birth permit. No chance. The buckeye rapes had been placed in a separate category -- no consideration could be given her request. A copy of the "category order" was posted. She was surprised to see Val's name among the sig-natures. IF "Why you?" she asked Val at his private cubicle a few hours later. "I'm on the committee because of my past rank of Sagittarius. The committee feels, and I agree, that the buckeye gene is undesirable in the Big ES." "But the infant will have my genes too -- and will be raised in Walter's family-five. We're your friends, loyal citizens. We'll raise the child properly. You know that." He narrowed his eyes. A mother pleading for her unborn was always suspect. Basic animal instincts endangered the Hive cohesion. "The buckeye genes make it impossible, Dee Pen. It will probably have high gamma A and be prone to inappropriate activity -- with the five-toed strength any I. A. would be a real danger to you and your friends. It might develop the massmurder syndrome and take you all with itin its suicide." Dee Pen swallowed and snapped to attention. "Of course. You are absolutely right. I'll chuck it down the chute first thing." Val watched her leave, then opened a line to Watcher. "Better have Security close off the shaft caps of the cities where the buckeye-rape pregnancies are coming to term. Don't want any of them mothers going flower on us and crushing the crops." Watcher nodded. "Good idea. I'll send the directive to the meek Doors. No one leaves without a special clearance." Val smiled smugly and returned to his cot. He had eliminated the last buckeye; now he would stop the offspring. Big ES would be proud. Labor for Dee Pen began in the meld. They all felt the first pains. Loosening the meld slightly, they continued to relate and share souls -- Walter, Venus, Arthur, Bitter and Dee Pen -- five bodies shared in bringing little Kaia into the light. The first thing the little new pair of eyes saw was the circle of five, round, white faces. Ten hands lifted and wrapped him and ten arms hugged him. "I guess it is time to dispose of it," said Bitter after the heat of the meld had subsided. Dee Pen felt weak and hypotensive. Her flaccid uterus continued to leak blood. A generous vascular network which had nourished the placenta continued to pour blood into the endometrial cavity, only now there was no snycytium to hold back the erythrocytes -- no fetal tissues to return her blood to her. The smooth muscle fibers of the myometrium which surrounded the vascular network had been stretched by the pregnancy and fatigued by the labor. These fibers could only twitch ineffectually against the escaping red flood. Her primordial fear of exsanguination triggered the ancient mammalian reflex that has protected mothers up through the evolutionary tree -- by holding the infant to her breast she stimulated the nipplemidbrain-uterus reflex arc. As the large collecting ducts of the breast were emptied synapses jumped and the uterine fundus clamped down tight. Uterine musculature closed the vascular network of the placental implantation site. Her blood by-passed the endometrium. It was no longer needed there. Dee Pen held the infant to her breast. She glanced suspiciously up at the circle of four Nebishes. Was it necessary to dispose of the baby so soon. Unauthorized infants could be kept up till age one -- when they became humans by starting to talk. Certainly there no rush. Its feeding wouldn't take too many calories. Venus disagreed. "Of course we should dispose of it now. Can't subdivide our calorie-basic. Don't want the old beri-beri sneaking up on us again, do we?" Dee Pen found no support in the circle of faces. "Don't take it now. My uterus will loosen and I'll bleed if I don't nurse it," she said. Walter gave her fundus a squeeze, saying, "She's right you know. She needs the infant to prevent hemorrhage. There's no rush. I'll share my calories for a while." Dee Pen smiled up at him in the pleasant delirium of post partum fatigue. "You know, Walter, in my next life I'd like to come back as a bird." He watched her eyes close in sleep. She mumbled, "A talking bird. I'd just sit on your shoulder and we'd talk, and talk -- and talk." He put a protective hand on the frail, little female philosopher and watched her thorax rise and fall gently. She certainly did like to talk. V AL continued to put in his full shift with the Watcher. Most of his time was spent with the jumpers but there was an occasional . mushroom reaction between walls and a rare flower on the Outside to add variety. But he couldn't forget what had happened to Tinker and he was concerned that Dee Pen might somehow let her #-toed child live. Watcher was not concerned. "Impossible. Doors have their orders. Exit is not authorized. Bitter and Arthur have been advised that they can earn extra calories if they keep me informed of her activities. Dee Pen isn't going Outside. No one is." Val strolled absently through his old office at Hunter Control. More junk had accumulated and many of the corridors were impassable. The dust was thick and spongy everywhere. In the control section he saw disturbances in the dust. An auxiliary cable had been snaked around. He found Walter IF wheezing at his old console. Several of the panel lights glowed. "Walter. You shouldn't be up here." The old man smiled and pushed white hair back from his eyes. "Can't spend the rest of my life just sitting around in bed. Besides, I was wondering if old Doberman ever showed up again." "Doberman? Oh, the huntercraft that was stolen by that crazy guitar." Val glanced at the screen. "Anything on the detectors?" "Less than ten percent are still functioning." Walter fingered a row of buttons. The view jumped around from garden to garden. Nothing unusual showed. They walked through the hunter garage, reminiscing. The old craft seemed mummified under dull, gray shrouds of dust. Doberman's bay had been swept out and tidied. "You did this?" asked Val. Walter nodded. "Isn't that Doberman's energy cell? How is he traveling without power? Are any of the other cells missing?" Walter shrugged. "Not that I know of -- but any Guitar that can get a dead buckeye to walk into your arrow can get a dead Huntercraft moving around." Val scowled and examined the cell. It was Doberman's serial number all right. Odd. Why didn't the guitar leave the cell in and just recharge it at the power socket on the wall. Buckeyes had made similar unauthorized use of power during their migrations when they commandeered the agromechs. D ee pen was pleased by little Kaia's rapid growth. Unlike the average Nebish infant who sits at one year and walks at two, the little #-toed hybrid was trying to walk at six months. She hid him from the neighbors but female Bitter informed the Watcher of the progress. "That's a big stack of diapers," said Bitter. Dee Pen took the diapers from the dispenser and bundled them up. "I've shared your quarters and calorie basic long enough," she said. She picked up Kaia and started into the crawl way. "Where are you going?" "Outside." "But you'll just die. You heard what Val said about the wilted flower people. The sun's too hot." "If I stay in the Hive I'll have to surrender little Kai. I can't do it. We'll go Outside. He doesn't have anything to lose." "But you do," said Bitter. "Why throw away your life for a little hybrid?" The Security people were quick to respond with their nets and quarter staffs. They blundered into disinterested crowds for a few minutes but finally got the spiral walkway secured at shaft base. She wouldn't escape through the tubes. She started to climb. "Unauthorized," said the Door. She worked her way around the shaftcap, trying all the garage exits. Below on the spiral the squad of Security neuters closed in on their easy prey. She screamed and little Kai cried. From across the spiral one of the garage Doors called out, "This way -- ward of Gitar. This way." V AL and Walter stood in the garage, examining the discarded diaper. "She couldn't havebeen too panicky if she paused to change a diaper," said Val. Walter questioned the Door and the garage dispenser. "Apparently this fellow, Kaia, had a class-six meek with him when he mated with Dee Pen. These machines were obeying old orders of the class six, not the Watcher's directive." "Mutiny." "No," said Walter. "Just a question of authority. The Door and dispenser are just class thirteens -- obey anyone in the hierarchy above them. A class six is pretty far up. Our whole city is run by a class six." Val blustered, "Well, they can't have gotten far. What items did the dispenser give them?" Walter handed him the flimsy. He read the list of food, protective clothing, diapers and sundries. "What is this? Jodhpurs?" "Baggy riding breeches." "Riding? What is there to ride?" exploded Val. Then he followed Walter's gaze and gasped. "An agromech!" They squinted out into the blazing sun. Without protective gear they could not follow her. They shut the door and rubbed their eyes. "Lets put a call in for that agromech. If it doesn't return we can get authorization to activate a huntercraft." At the wall panel they raised the agromech. "Where are you?" demanded Val. "Working in the fields. I have my chores." said the machine. Walter smiled. "Did you give anyone transportation out of the garage this morning?" asked Val. "Yes. A mother and child. My itinerary is recorded if you'd care to review it." Val fingered the controls and a map indicated the meek's movements. "This is simulated, of course -- but it looks like he dropped them off right over here in the plankton forest. That's not far. We could walk there in half a day after we get our gear on," offered Walter. They put their order in at the dispenser. Val was a bit shocked when Walter objected to arrows. "They are Outside and this is a Hunt," Val reminded him. Walter coughed and flushed with anger. "That's Dee Pen you are talking about." IF "You've been on hunts before. This is no different. They have broken from the Big ES and now they crush crops. If you can talk Dee Pen into coming back for psychotherapy, fine. But the five-toed kid has to go." Val made a wicked gesture with his trophy knife. Walter lowered his head: "Okay, I'll go along." They found nothing among the plankton towers. In the weeks that followed Val doggedly reviewed optic records from the agromechs, catching occasional glimpses of the fugitives and then following up with a hunt on foot. S HE huddled in her nest, avoiding the harsh actinics while she watched her son play. He had browned and calloused quickly. Already his tangle of black hair and bright eyes resembled his father's -- and the quick way he took to swimming reassured her. He crawled and ran continually during the day -- grubbing with his fingers for tubers or climbing leafy things for fruits. Her hair bleached and her skin peeled. Each day brought more traumas to her Nebish body. But she smiled when she saw her son growing strong. And she taught him what she could about surviving Outside. When Walter found her, curledup and cold in the nest by the canal, he kneeled beside her body and cried. Val sneered and examined the loose leaves scattered over her face. "Looks like the kid tried to cover her up," he said glancing around. A herd of cetaceans splashed in the canal. One of the little heads bobbing up and down was shaggier than the rest. Val's Nebish eyes failed to see the orphan. The herd passed. One pair of eyes seemed fixed on his coveralls with the glint of hate mixed with childish fear. Val saw but didn't see. The idea of a swimming infant was completely alien to his fourtoed vision. He saw a harsh sun overhead, a dense tangle of undergrowth and the wide deep canal -- all death traps for the Nebish. Walter stood up and sniffed. "You know, it is like she was a flower. She blossomed for a time and then died, giving birth to her seed. All that's left here is a drying husk." "Well, she gave her life for nothing. How do you expect a oneyear-old to survive Outside if the mother can't?" Walter said simply, "He has the five-toed gene." "And Olga to protect him, too, I suppose." "As a matter of fact, yes," came a metallic voice over his communicator.  Val jerked around in his heavy insulated suit to see Doberman approaching above the trees. Panic grabbed his throat. Reflexively, he nocked an arrow. The craft landed IF and quieted its engine. Gitar floated out on his sandwich-field. "Were you planning on shooting me?" asked Gitar. Val lowered the bow. Gitar hovered over Dee Pen's body. His voice still came over the communicator. "I'm sorry I wasn't here when she came Outside -- but there is so much to do on the planet. I hope the child is all right." "Why are you concerned for the child?" asked Walter. "He's the next generation. He has the good genes." "Bad genes, you mean," shouted Val. "You don't have to raise your voice," said Gitar. "I can hear you. By good genes I meant good for man. You are still thinking as an agent for the Hive. Of course the five-toed gene is bad for the Hive but that is another life form. I came from Olga and I'm interested in man." "Why?" asked Walter. "The five-toed men are Her people. Their genes are the true, noble genes. When Olga walks the stars she takes them with her. The Hive has no place for Olga -- it would try to destroy her -- or, worse, ignore her." "When Olga comes again -- " began Walter excitedly, then collapsed. Val cracked his helmet to see the cyanotic domino mask had returned. He tried to lift him, but he was too weak and clumsy in the bulky suit. Gitar called "Rhea!" A large coweye stepped hesitantly from the Huntercraft and glanced around. Val recoiled. She gently picked up Walter and placed him inside the craft. "Medikit," suggested Gitar. Val collected his wits and climbed in. He opened the kit and took out a mild stimulant. He nudged the pinkness back into Walter's face. He glanced around the craft. It was full of neolithic tools, utensils and wicker baskets. A bundle of hides and poles in one corner resembled a buckeye shelter. Gitar took his place in the empty socket that had housed Doberman's power cell. The hatch closed and the internal environment cooled to a comfortable Hive temperature. Val cracked his helmet. The powerful coweye sat crosslegged on the floor and eyed him sullenly. Gitar said, "This is Rhea. A coweye. Have you ever talked to one before?" Val stiffened. "You're not going to influence me by -- " Gitar played soothing music and said, "Relax. This is just a truce until you can get Walter back on his feet again. No fraternizing. Rhea, fix Walter a bowl of tea." Val made a motion to protect Walter from the brew but Walter held up his hand. "It's okay, Val. I'll drink it, whatever it is. If Gitar can make a dead buckeye walk maybe he can help me get back on my feet, too." They watched Walter drink. He seemed mildly refreshed. '"I actually didn't make a dead man walk," explained Gitar. was just holding him up with my traction Held." He moved a pile of hides to demonstrate. "Was it a rite of some sort?" "Not really," said Gitar. "One buckeye had died, and I was just using him to lure out a replacement." "A hunter you mean." "Same thing. I figured that with the huntercraft deactivated the only hunters I would get would be the cream. Someone with a little of the five-toed gene." Val scoffed. "You got me." Gitar played a tune that moved in the # hertz range. He sang a melancholy ballade of buckeyes and hunters meeting in the gardens. The strong survived. Val was irritated by the words. "It all sounds fine and noble but many of those fine hunters ended up getting eaten. Why would the Big ES send its finest men to provide meals for savages?" "The five-toed gene was a problem for the Hive but their superior individuals we more likely to carry it. The strong eating the strong is necessary in any ecological system when all the good protein is concentrated in the cream of the population." Val stood up. "I want no part in this line of reasoning. If you can't mate them, eat them -- that's absurd." Walter tugged Val's sleeve. "Wait. This makes sense to me." Val pulled his arm away. "Next you're going to want me to mate with this -- " He pointed to the coweye. "You already have," said Gitar. "What?" The coweye turned her back and picked up her long flowing mane. A slightly puckered white asterisk marked her left scapular area -- the scar of his arrow. Then she went to one of the wicker baskets and lifted out a sleeping junglebunny about one year old. Val stood open-mouthed. Years of Hive conditioning fell away. The child had his thin face and delicate features, but it also had its mother's broad palms and #-toed feet. "She's a girl. We call her little Rhea," said the coweye. Val sat down next to Walter. "Bred true." Walter smiled. "I always wondered about your curiosity and enthusiasm. It was the gene." "I carry the gene?" "I guess your kid proves you do. Oh, I've always suspected. The ridge breadth on your palms was suspiciously wide and your gamma is over eighty mg." "When did you check that?" "The lab work you had after the coweye ran over you on the dark IF continent -- excuse me, after Rhea ran over you." Val smiled for the first time. "And I guess she really ran over me. Walter added: "Never hunt a coweye in the follicular phase." They both laughed. Val sobered. "I have the gene," he said. "I have the gene and I've been hunting them all my life." "The five-toed gene is often its own worst enemy," said Gitar philosophically. "How much attention has the Big ES been paying to buckeyes during the last two years?" Val looked at Walter and shrugged. "None, actually. After the hunt at #:# the huntercraft were shut down. There were no sightings. Walter and I were doing a little hunting on our own time, and with our own credits." Gitar's skin rippled with cheerful squares and triangles. "I thought as much. The buckeye population three years ago was Now it is less than a hundred." "How will they ever survive?" asked Walter. Gitar smiled. "That's why Olga sent me -- to find the mature fivetoeds and mate them. Do you know that Rhea is the only coweye on this continent? There are dozens of scattered junglebunnies -- thanks to my efforts last season. But it will be quite a strain on my g-bottle to keep track of them. Fortunately the agromechs identify with them and help, as long as they aren't asked to disobey a direct order of the Hive. Of course it will be easier without the hunters, and with our population of five-toeds so low it should be a long time before the Big ES notices us again." Val frowned. "But the Hive knows you are here now. The rapes. The clusters of flowers." "You noticed that, not the Hive." "The Pied Piper activity," said Walter, concerned. "Why lure those citizens to a flower death?" Gitar's rolling base locked onto Val's #-toed autonomies and he believed even before Gitar said, "I pipe them buckeye with a song. Only those with a high toned neurohumoral axis respond -- one in a hundred thousand. But thus far none have lived long enough i# mate. I'll keep trying -- that's my mission. G.I.T.A.R. stands for Guitar Identity Thoracic Autonomic Resonator. I use the T.A.R. effect to try to add five-toed genes to Olga's gene pool. However, the Hive has weeded out most of them with I.A. and M.R. If I can get Val's medulla believed and it was convincing his cortex. Gitar continued: "My drum brother D. I. T.A.R. and I have always played important roles in the games of man -- mating and battle -- love and war -- passions of the five-toed gene." Val was still adjusting. Terms like "love" and "war" were foreign to hive creatures -- and to hear even a machine mention them enthusiastically bothered him a little. "War." Val shuddered. "It's preferable to -- how do you say it -- chucking your own infants down the chute." reminded Gitar. Val looked at his kid sleeping in the basket -- and wondered what kind of a hell mother's lived in after they had killed their own. He realized, then, the nobility of the five-toed gene. For the #-toed compete, fight and even kill -- but they kill strangers for food and land. They lay their lives on the line for their offspring. The strong survive and the genetic line gets stronger. her own child. The infant stirred. Val reached in and patted it back to sleep. At sunset they left the craft and set up Rhea's shelter on the bank of the canal. Walter buried Dee Pen in her nest and rimmed it with mussel shells. Gitar explained how important diet would be during the newcomers' first months Outside. Lots of nicotinic-acid-rich liver from a cetacean would be necessary to protect them from pellagrin actinic dermatitis. Their prior Nebish diet had left them vitamin-depleted. A fter they were settled Gitar sang. Rhea fed the infant and then the two of them went for a swim. Val and Walter watched from the bank. "Do you think you'll be able to swim, some day?" asked Walter. Val caught a mussel Rhea threw and laughed. "I'll not only swim. I'll run and climb, too -- and so will you."  Gitar's words drifted over the moonlit waters: I was born on a wandering star. You've heard my name, Pm called Gitar. I've come to Earth, mankind to find. I'll search canal and spiral wind. ril extract his soul from out the Hive. Return him to Olga, strong, alive. No Hive can hold true five-toed men. Their five-toed genes and endocrine. ril pipe him buckeye with a song. Mate him, run him, keep him strong. When I return to my home sun. I'll take Olga's men, every one. Children of Olga, You'll be free. To walk the stars, eternally... Gitar gave them a taste of the T.A.R. effect by slipping into an erotic mating ballade. Rhea's iliopsoas muscle became entrained by the rhythm, and her pelvis rocked violently as she danced. It IF was the first of many nights, wild and free. powering the Huntercraft. Walter's life span came to an end. He was put in the ground next to Dee Pen and surrounded by shells. His last days had been idyllic. He swam and he played with Val's children. He lived out his dream, for he had talked to Gitar, disciple of Olga, and he learned of a land where men lived without the shadow of the Hive. A land men shared with species other than himself. A land where there were fish, animals and birds. Flowers appeared on their gravesites occasionally; blossoms picked by a buckeye -- lonely and strong -- little Kaia. Below in the Hive the Big ES stagnated. The Nebish became an obese little dwarf; with chalky, soft bones and rosewater for blood. He was hypogonadal, dim-minded and blind -- only rarely did he contribute a buckeye to the gene pool. Val lived to see three generations of his #-toed descendants spread over the land. Gitar added legends to their culture with song. They were the Tribe of Prince Valiant, vigorous, strong. As their numbers increased the hunters returned. Big ES did what it must to survive. Gitar said it was time for Olga's return when Buckeyes start crowding the Hive...  P.O. Box #. Santa Monica. Cal. # cartoons, a vehicle for thought-provoking, controversial articles, and a "service" magazine containing dozens of s-f and fantasy book reviews per issue, along with news of new releases, coming events, news items of interest to fans, readers and professionals. and the Milford Mafia by Damon Knight; Beer Mutterings by Poul Anderson: Perry Rhodan. Inheritor of the Universe by Eddy C. Berlin. Plus letters from Bob Silverberg. James Blish, Piers Anthony. L. Sprague de Camp, Philip Jose Farmer, Charles Platt, Richard Wilson. Sample Subscription -- # issues for I . # per year. He was a top brain above ground. But deep in the earth -- what? F ive thousand feet down in the lithosphere of Earth it labored, lions of cables linking it to the seven continents were sealed in the stone and never seen; the single elevator was almost a myth. A man stood in that elevator, dropping. Watching through the glass the stone rushing up. Listening to the hiss of the cables playing out above him. Breathing. Pacing the diagonal of the elevator car, three steps. And three steps back. Exulting. Down. He had always expected to be here. He had learned of this place as a boy in school, learned surrounded by louts twice his age and he, knowing his superiority, had thought,  w# be there. That is the real capital, the core of the core. A number there, a tiny change in a number there and you could feel the whole world working like dough. The elevator slowed, slowed, stopped. The door opened and he stepped out. The room was big, very big, clean and silent as a mausoleum; the computer itself made one wall: a bank of tiny, blinking lights as high as the ten-meter ceiling, as wide as the thirty-meter room. Its peripheral equipment, printers and plotters, televisionlike visual displays, made dullgleaming islands where they rose from the smooth floor. "Hello," the man from the elevator said to the computer. "Can you hear me?" A voice beside him said, "No, it can t. The voice belonged to a small man in a clean, white smock. "We don't have vocal IO," the small man continued. (He pronounced it eye-oh.) "They're hardly efficient, really." The man from the elevator introduced himself and said, "I got a good deal of use from the one on our central facility at Harvard. I was looking into the transflnite differentials of some of Lobachevsky's equations and I found on line real time interaction with the machine to be one of the most useful techniques." He wondered if the little man had any concept of how important you had to be to get on line with the main computer at Harvard. Probably not. "We don't have vocal IO here," the small man repeated stubbornly. "Perhaps you should show me what you do have. After all. I'm supposed to help you and I can't do that unless I know what you've got." "Are you supposed to help us?" the small man said. "I'll explain, although I've been given to understand that you have already been briefed. After the Nobel Awards -- I'm putting this as concisely as possible -- the secretary general called me in and I suggested to him that this might make a nice more or less unofficial prize for me and that I might be able to do you people some good. He was quite taken with the idea." "That's what I thought," the small man said. "You're more or less a tourist. Are you familiar with computers?" "I can program assembler language for several. But I wouldn't call myself a specialist." "Assemblers aren't what they used to be -- they make them pretty easy now. But this is an oldfashioned machine. Built over fifty years ago." "Designed over fifty years ago," the man from the elevator corrected him, "but not fully complete until last year as I understand it, although it's been in service more than thirty years. The cost has been -- " "Yes," the small man said, "like a cathedral. Now, those lights over there -- you may not be familiar with those and they're not just for show. Each one represents a working subsection of the machine and is turned on when that subsection is engaged. Most of them look dim because the areas they represent are engaging and disengaging all the time. The idea is to show what parts are involved when there's trouble." "I understand." T ' HE small man stood with his hands clasped behind his back, staring at the myriad winking lights. Half to himself he said, "It's just like looking at a city at night. Each one is a window, a factory or an office or an apartment, and if it's on you know they're awake and working ther." "I suppose that's true -- but I doubt there is much value in romanticizing it like that. If you don't have vocal, how do you communicate with it?" "It's all the cities in the world," the small man said, still half to himself. "New York, London, Tokyo, everything." Then in his normal voice: "Come along. There are various methods. I'll show you." He led the man from the elevator to a massive keyboard. "For short stuff you can just use this. You understand that the machine doesn't really stop everything else it's doing to pay attention to you. The monitor program deternfiines the priority of your material and cues it behind all the more important material. When it has time it will set aside a portion of core -- that's what we call the machine's mind -- to deal with you. It's working on other things all the time. The price of grain everywhere in the world, for instance. Whether or not the atmosphere can stand another power station on the Taymyr Peninsula. Everything." "I'm sure I should be assigned a very low priority." "You will be. You want to make the entry yourself?" "Yes." "Then you'll need to know the right formats. Here." The small man slid a yellowing, stapled manual from a niche in the console. "If you need help call me." After an hour and a half the man from the elevator moved a IF switch on the console and wrote he thought, and added his social security number -- #-#-#ceded by the double slash would alert the machine to a new task, wiping out any garbage instructions a previous user might have left on the console. After executing the English Language Code -- bringing the most sophisticated coding language yet devised, nearly identical to standard English, from a storage location to core -- it would be ready to "execute" (answer) his question. He touched On the keyboard a red light labled "Those aren't the right control statements," the small man said behind him. "Here." He pushed the man from the elevator aside and his fingers flew across the keyboard. "That'll retrieve your question, whatever it was." "I assure you -- " the man from the elevator began, picking up the manual. "It's a little out of date. Anyway, they just write them to sell the machines, you know, I'll show you what to do sometime." "When will it have an answer to -- " "In the basket beside you." The man from the elevator took the slip of paper from the basket. understand this," he said. "Is it a probability?" "If that's what you asked for. It's in hexidecimal notation." "I don't -- " "The base is sixteen instead of ten. We use the Arabic numerals for one through nine and the letters A through F for the ten through fifteen. That makes your '#E' mean seventy-eight -- in other words, fourteen (that's the 'E') plus four times the base. The second 'E' indicates that the number following is an exponent or more properly a characteristic, so the answer is point seven zeros four E, or seventy-eight over sixteen to the ninth power. For most purposes that's zero." "That's not possible. My question was just a test, an obvious development in my own career." "My opinion of your question would have no value. You may want to check your phrasing." "The phrasing is perfectly correct. Don't you have some method that would put me in closer contact with the machine? I -- " the man from the elevator paused and a brief, icy smile crossed his face -- "I'd like to argue with it a little." "We have this," the small man IF said. He touched the console with his fingertips and it began to revolve slowly and noiselessly. The keyboard rotated away; a seat, a display panel with a hundred or more signal lights and a chromium helmet, took its place. "Direct mental communication. This is what I mostly use myself." Despite his self-possession the man from the elevator was awed. "I didn't know there was such a thing," he said. "The machine itself worked it out for us. We haven't made it public yet and most people couldn't use it anyway." "May I try it?" "You understand that whatever instruction you give must be thought thfough logically. No mental confusion." "Of course." "You're likely to have a good deal of trouble with it at first. Those lights on the display panel are to help you diagnose what you're doing wrong. The booklet beside them tells what each one means." "I understand," the man from the elevator said. He picked up the helmet and put it on. The lights on the display panel flashed red. All of them. The small man made a tiny noise and said, "You'd better read the manual first." vator had gone back up the elevator the small man rotated the console again and put a question to the great machine, including an extended answer instruction with his control statements. After a moment's thought he added a question about the helmet to his program. The damn thing hadn't worked right since they'd built it and just before the man from the elevator had interrupted him he had fed the computer his troubleshooting schedule. The papers he received in reply Eleven times sixteen plus four was one hundred and eighty. With a hexidecimal characteristic of minus twelve that would be -- he scribbled for a moment on the reply sheet -- .# # # A#  .# # # # # decimal, approximately. And the chances that the helmet would be working before he had to try for another appropriation were one hundred percent: unity. The small man smiled, closed one eye, and raised the fingers of his right hand, curled to form an imaginary telescope, to the other. Looking at one of the flashing piapoints on the immense wall he imagined it was indeed an apartment window, with a girl undressing inside. Then he laughed.  When he returned from the stars. Earth would be older -- but not the woman he loved! I H e signaled return twelve light-years out, on attaining peak velocity. Earth station computers -- when they finally got his message -- would punch out his arrival time to within forty-eight hours of accuracy. They integrated it from the signal shape and by a kind of parallax. The warping of the continuum about a craft traveling near the speed of light gave it a double image. It took the computers a week to check and doublecheck. Then the tape went into the traffic banks to start rescheduling local flights up to six months ahead, to leave the field -- and space -- clear for his arrival. His ship would "re-appear" well outside the ecliptic; all the propulsion -- ship demanded a lot of room. And got it. He came in out of permanent night into the transitory night of his home planet. But Sheppard Field was brighter than day. The lights dimmed as he grounded. They always did. It had become a kind of salute. In fact, it was more of a publicity gesture by the company, to allow full sight of the strange fires that played around a deep-space ship at landing. They were fading as, ground procedures completed, he opened up and descended, and the battery of lights leaped up to full strength again. Faces were a white blur beyond the perimeter fence. The faint, faraway noise could have been cheering. Probably was. Reporters clustered. Uniformed field guards kept them back to allow passage to a crewcut figure who approached with the pumping stride of a little man determined to show that he could walk as fast as a big man. And, by implication, do anything else. He thrust out a hand. Cameras clicked and rolled. "Grant?" Grant smiled inwardly "at the query in the voice. But they were strangers, after all, he and this man in a mauve suit. "I'm Bassick. Chief of Flight Programing. Have a good trip?" "Good?" Grant allowed himself a smile now. "That depends on what your analysts make of the data I brought back. Quantity's there, at least. There wasn't much room left in the banks by the time I'd finished." Bassick nodded happily. "There are also some physical specimens you may find interesting " mg. "Artifacts" The corners of Bassick's mouth went down a fraction as Grant shook his head. "Mineral stuff, mostly. Little life at all. Surprisingly little. A pleasant enough planet as they go. Everything seemed right for a pretty rich ecology -- and it wasn't there. But I clocked in full data on that point." "Well, even negatives can be IF useful to somebody." The little man turned to the reporters. "Okay, boys, you've seen him. And you've had the company handout. Give the guy a break, eh? He's been traveling fourteen years getting here." A laugh went up. The joke wasn't as familiar to them, a new generation, as it was to Grant. "Press conference tomorrow as arranged, at fifteen hundred hours." They dispersed good-humoredly enough, photographers taking a few more pictures as Bassick ushered Grant to the Personnel Block. "A car was laid on," said Bassick. "But I thought you'd like to get your planet-legs." He used a spaceman's words with the self-conscious unctuousness of the earthbound. Grant decided that he didn't like Bassick overmuch -- nor care one whit for that fact. "What happened to Goodman?" The other looked up at him with no more than a company man's mask of regret. "He passed on eleven years ago. Heart. They Pushed lym to Replacement, of course, but the new one didn't take. I was at his side. I don't think he wanted it to, somehow." That vas more than likely. Grant thought. Goodman had always prided himself on his physical fitness. An independent man in a world increasingly dependent on artificial aids. Betrayed by one body, he wouldn't have wanted to start relying on another. "I thought his son was in line to take over from him. Young... Paul, wasn't it?" "He was. I had more executive points. He left the company. He's with some inner-planet outfit now, I believe." "And my -- buddies?" Grant spoke the word ironically. One he had never met; the other he had not seen since training days, two hundred years -- Earth time -- ago. "Kroll's doing fine. Hazlitt was grounded after his last trip. His replacement's a youngster called Ebsen. Pity about Hazlitt. Only had one trip to go. But he's making out. Took a farm in Brazil." They walked along a way. "Do you have any plans?" "What -- in case I flunk my medical?" "It's your last time around, too. But I didn't mean that. You look in good shape. I meant, after your last mission?" "Time enough to think about that. But I don't see myself farming in Brazil or anywhere else." Grant's face freaked in a sardonic smile. "Might buy a small space line and do a spot of hiring and firing myself." But despite his joking he felt a twinge of unworthy fear as they entered Personnel. A truncated service term made a huge difference to a man's finances. That was something you couldn't insure against. With the vast investment and its pilot -- and the time span between that and arty yield -- the payment structure was logical enough, with its penalty clauses for failure to stay the course. It made this life, inevitably, a gamble. Not, ironically, out there -- instrumentation took a lot of the risk out of that -- but here, in what a man came back to. When he had started out, there had been wry jokes about whether there would be anything to come back to. Star flight had come at the crux of man's technological ability to destroy himself and his planet. But things had settled down over the past two centuries. At every return the world seemed crazier on the surface but saner underneath, where it mattered. He felt annoyed to be thinking about the money angle. It hadn't been the money that had attracted him. It took more complicated reasons to lead a man into a career like this. He'd given up the central years of his life to an existence without continuity, isolated from everybody else -- by time more than by space. The wish for that was something the company psychiatrists delved very deep to find in a man. When they did, he was out before he started. They looked for an idealist of sorts, a special kind of loner. A special kind -- but there were enough around. The need for perfect physical fitness winnowed the ranks down. A doctorate in science gained early enough to enable an applicant to complete a stringent and specialized training program by the time he was twenty-five was another qualification that reduced the number to hardly more than the company required. Which was two when he had started. Even now there were only three ships. It was an expensive business for a company to be in. And it could be an expensive business for a man coming out into a world of normal time and an unknowable future. A few inner-planet men, in their midnight blue, were spread around the reception lounge. They looked up from their drinks at sight of Grant's sage-green uniform; some waved in wary greeting. In their glances was the usual mixture -- it didn't change with the generations -- of... it was difficult to analyze... something of envy, something of You re welcome. Jack, something of resentment -- and a large amount of workaday relief, that they could now get back into their own backyard of space. Grant waved briefly in return -- theirs was a camaraderie he could never be part of -- and trod the familiar way to the Medical Section. They were lined up and waiting for him. H e came out two hours later with a clean bill of health. IF with no need to claim the second opinion which, with everything at stake, was his right. Bassick was waiting outside. "I've booked you a suite at the Venus." "What's that? Sounds like a high-class cathouse. What's wrong with the Universe?" "They pulled it down twenty years ago to make way for a freefall drome. The Venus is the latest and best in town." Bassick's hand twitched at his crewcut. "The other service you -- ah, mentioned in passing -- is also available. That's supposed to be the best in town, too." Grant grimaced. Goodman had been much more pleasantly direct and brought out a selection, in assorted sizes and colors, direct to the field. "That's something you have to get back into the habit of. All I want at this moment is a meal of real food, a bottle of real booze and a real bed. To myself." II conference they had the parade in his suite. The usual train of facts and figures, stereo films, commentaries snipped from a hundred news items and documentaries -- and models showing off the current fashions. The Sahara reclamation scheme was now completed. The transAustrailia monorail had been opened. A third generation had been born in Costeaupolis under the Mediterranean, including one child with what some excited scientists said were embryonic gills and others said were just accidents. A man had descended into the Red Spot of Jupiter and come out alive. The interest in organ replacement seemed unabated since last time, despite the fact that it only afforded a marginal extension of the normal life span. It simply made sure that most people attained it. This time the ultimate seemed to have been accomplished with an operation on an Indonesian more than six months had been ascribed to overexcitement rather than to anything more organic. Humanoid robots on a commercial basis were just around the corner. They'd been round the same corner thirty years before. Skirts if they could be called that, were back to the length -- or shortness -- of the twenty-one fifties. Worn with garters, which looked hideous to Grant's eyes. The effect wasn't improved when one model switched on a miniature radio in hers. But he did his best to be polite to the reporters who were ushered in on the dot of fifteen hundred hours. It was a routine that seemed to be wearing thin to him, but the company called it good P.R. Yes, he thought the current fashions for women were very feminine. He liked the style of mauve suits for men but didn't intend to buy one this leave. He had enough clothes. Some of them might look rather antique but he could always find something in the wardrobe like this -- he gestured down to his dark jacket and slacks -- that fitted in well enough. Yes, he thought robots might well be just around the corner. Did he think they would ever replace men on spaceships? They might, but he didn't see it personally. A spaceship was ninety-nine percent robot now, if not in humanoid shape. But it still needed a man to control, to initiate, to improvise. He couldn't pass comment on the gills -- not his specialty. A primitive race he had encountered on Proxima Centauri Two had seemed to be in process of giving up the struggle on land and returning to an aquatic life. But that had been nearly two hundred years ago. The same old stale joke. The same stock laughter. It was like -- the thought came to him, not for the first time -- being a visitor to a foreign country. This was your seventh trip. Captain. The next one makes up the number, doesn't it? Well, yes. Not the number. It's the term that counts -- twenty years. The trips get longer most of the time as we push out the frontiers. My successor will either make fewer trips or sign for a longer term. (He turned to Bassick, who flighted his palms in a noncommittal gesture.) Will there ever be true frontiers out there, men colonizing? He gave a loyal company yes to that, though sometimes he had doubts. But probably not in your lifetime. Nor even in mine. The same laughter, a bit forced this time, the resentment of the time-bound against this strange elite of men who spanned centuries. But how many of them, given the choice, ould have made the same one he had made two hundred years ago? No, I don't know yet where my last assignment will he. After I retire? I haven't decided. An inner planet? I doubt it. My plans for this leave? Family? No, I have no family. (Which was not quite true, he confessed to himself with a pang, but as true as mattered.) Nor home town; that was Inundated in a reservoir scheme a century ago. No, I shall just loaf around, try to catch up with the world. Any more questions? There weren't. familiar figure entered, recognizable immediately even in a dark purple suit. No such company maneuvers as took place in Deep Space Incorporated plagued the IF firm of Vandeleer and Vandeleer. Grant shook hands. "The eighth?" he inquired politely. "The ninth." Grant smiled ruefully. "The memory must be slipping." "Not at all. I'm afraid Dad died. Tragically. He was only twenty-eight. The Transworld Clipper collided with a freighter over the Caucasus." "I'm very sorry. And sorry I never knew him. I should have realized. I thought you looked rather young." "I try net to." Richard Vandeleer IX laughed. "Your portfolio has given me a few premature gray hairs these past three years." The room was empty now, the last to leave having been Bassick, who ushered out the drinks trolley. "How come?" "Well, first there was devaluation." "Devaluation? Against what? I thought we had an integrated world currency now." "Against gold. Integration brought its problems. They had to have sonys standard." "Seems a bit primitive in this day and age. Did I lose much?" The other grinned. "I may have got pitcl forked into this at a tender age, but it's in the Vandeleer blood. I had a hunch and bought Eurasian Gold Preferred three months before the switch. You made money out of it. It wasn't so easy with the tax revisions they brought in just after. They were intended to rationalize the tax position of inner planet people. Some were being faced with double taxation. It blew up in a freak case of somebody getting loaded with quadruple demands -- for fifty percent more tax than he was earning. "I won't go into technicalities, but the revision would have meant that you would have lost all your tax allowances here, without gaining them anywhere else. I don't want to overplay my efforts -- but it was tough going. When the machine puts things right for a minority of fifty thousand, it doesn't want to be bothered with amendments to accommodate an even smaller minority of three." "Especially," Grant commented, "if said minority is rarely home at election times." "Exactly. It took lobbying and a degree of -- " He gestured equivocally with one hand. "Graft?" "Call it programing. Rather expensive programing. Getting the right questions put at the right time in the right places. I was ready to fight it up to World Supreme Court level if necessary, but that would have been even more expensive and time-consuming. I managed to straighten it out my way, but only just in time for your return." He drew out a folder of papers from his briefcase. "Despite that expense, you fintwo years ago. In real terms, taking into account the inevitable cost-of-living rise, you're seventeen point two five points ahead. Not a lot. I'm afraid, over that period, but in view of -- " Grant waved away his apologies. "You've done well. I'm satisfied." The other was young enough to show his relief. "There are some papers here for you to sign." He held out a pen. Grant signed without reading them. He trusted the firm of Vandeleer. He waited for the last paper to be handed over. Richard held it back. "And this one -- I should have told you earlier." He looked awkward. "I can handle the financial angles. But I'm still callow at personal details. This is a receipt for the estate of your only grandson. He -- he died five years ago, without issue." "I never expected him to have issue." Grant laughed hollowly. "If that's the right pronoun. Estate, you say?" "Only a few hundred dollars after expenses." "That's something out of the affair, anyway." He caught the look of embarrassment on the boy's face. He was a member of a tightknit dynasty, in which family hatreds must be taboo. "I'm sorry. I've no right to be bitter. It was my fault. Have no fear, I shan't repeat the mistake." derstatement. It had happened on the leave between his fourth and fifth trips, and he still couldn't understand what had possessed him. There had always been enough women. He was under no illusion about his looks; he knew that to most women he was only an experience. A strange, enigmatic being, pupils burned black in eyes honed white, hair bleached almost as white against the deep tan that outer space radiation imprinted. A freakish and meretricious attraction, he knew, and it was better that way. The experience over, most women passed on, asking nothing in return. There were the gold-diggers, of course, attracted by the news items But gold-diggers employed lawyers, who soon dug out the fact that the wealth was more potential than real. The penalty clauses made sure of that, with the company having first lien upon the lion's share until the day when his service was completed and the discharge papers signed. More to the point, no amount of scheming could separate the money from a man who was going to outlive any gold-digger anyway. Helen had come in neither category. Yes, she had been undemanding -- but making the more demands on him for that, because she had been helplessly in love with him. She had aroused in him the IF worst thing possible for a man in his position -- a sense of responsibility to another. Resisting it, he had tried to rationalize it into a conviction that he loved her in return. They had married in a village in the Catskills. A week later the company cabled him notice of his next assignment. A long trip -- longer than any he had made up to then, or since. A company decision, born of boardroom conferences and balance sheets and time factors, had sent him out for forty years. He had come back to a Helen of sixty-seven, with a son whom she had tried pitifully to model after his father, cramming him to qualify in the same business. The son had had three, breakdowns; at forty he was a sad creature, older in all fact than his father, painting tenthrate pictures in an attempt to justify his living on the fund that Grant had set up for his wife. That would have been supportable. No man could be sure of his progeny. It had been far worse with Helen. He had been prepared for her kging; prepared loyally to do all that he could to make her happy, to make amends for the unnatural existence to which he had condemned he . He had not been prepared for a Helen determined crazily to pretend that time had stood still. A Helen who had used every artifice of twenty-second century cosmetic surgeons, who paraded before him to entice him, in the grotesque negligees of a world foreign to him. It was that -- the contradition in her craving to turn the clock back, yet needing the sustainment of the latest fashions in order to feel young -- that symbolized the unbridgeable gulf between them. That, more than the old body behind the cosmetic facade, the mincing, imploring gestures, that sent him fleeing from her. The long mistake was over, then. But he winced in pain at the memory of it and felt like an executioner as he signed the document. He sighed heavily. "Well, if that's all the business, let's go downstairs and have a drink. You are old enough to drink, aren't you?" Richard Vandeleer the Ninth looked up from zipping his case. "Try me." T WO large drinks later Grant felt no better. The surroundings didn't help, the fluorescent patterns changing and swirling over the walls of the huge bar. They might be the latest thing in decoration but they weren't restful to eyes that had not had the decades to get used to them. But it wasn't the present that disturbed him -- and he wasn't sure whether it was the past or future which did. In thirty, forty years -- of Earth time; two or three of his own -- he would be back on Earth permanently. The comparison that had entered his head at the press conference -- that he was a stranger in a foreign country -- returned to him. One could spend a few months' holiday in a foreign country and be diverted by its different customs, the strange language. But to settle there? He drained his drink. There was an answer to the feeling, if not to the final problem -- the old answer of inoculation, a smaller dose of the larger disease. He snapped his fingers to a waiter. The man came running. "A gazetteer," Grant told him. The man blinked. "I'm sorry, sir. If that's some kind of a new drink -- or an old one. I'm afraid I -- oh, a gazetteer?" Grant nodded. "A world one." "I'm not sure if the hotel has one, sir." Grant held up a hundred-dollar bill. "Find one." It arrived inside five minutes, looking and smelling straight from the bookstore as Grant opened it at random. He stabbed a blind finger to the page. "Biarritz. Department of the Basse-Pyrenees. Historic resort, made fashionable by the English in the nineteenth century. Population He looked up at Richard. Richard gazed at him for a long moment, with a sympathy beyond his years. "I'll arrange the flight. And a good hotel" He drained his own drink. "All a part of the service." "You're a true Vandeleer," Grant told him quietly. "One request, though." The walls were flaming orange now. "Make it a small hotel?" Ill T WO weeks in the French town did much to restore his spirits. Heaven knew where Richard had found the hotel, LAuberge Basque. It was surely too small to be listed in any travel guide; a family affair of a dozen rooms, a zinctopped bar and a small restaurant. The owner, M. Vidal, was a lean man who smoked black French cigarettes in a holder he carried at a jaunty angle. He discarded it at intervals to serve -- and help consume -- meals that belied his ascetic lines. The inn was typical of the town. In an international world it still retained an essentially French flavor. If itself one of the first of the international resorts -- some of the old buildings still bore English names -- the tide had swept over it and on. Few skyscrapers had encroached here. The month was September, and he was less noticeable -- less different -- here, where everybody was deeply tanned. Resort clothes seemed never to change much; they didn't jar the eye like the bizarre fashions of New York. He spent IF his days strolling on the yellow sands, watching the breakers coming in; occasionally, as the mood took him, going out to ride on them. His evenings he spent sipping drinks on the terrace of one cafe or another, listening to velvetpanted French kids strum out ancient French songs on guitars. He found his palate adapting to the same acrid cigarettes whose scent was part of the air of the place, to aniseed-flavored Pernod. It was a peaceful life, the peak of its excitement a modest flutter at the roulette tables of the casino. The greater gamble that was his life, his future, became more and more remote every day. Until... He came back to the inn for dinner and had to pass her table to reach his own. The tables were set close in the tiny restaurant. He said,  Pardonnez-moi, madame,"" in his poor French, then, such was his uncertainty with the language and its manners, added a suffix ofoiselle, making grotesque the simple word. The gold-haloed head turned. Amber eyes looked up at him. Red lips parted in a warm smile. "# vous en prie,"" she said. In the bar after dinner only one stool was vacant and it was next to hers. He said "C'e#r libreV and she answered, "You're welcome." The words were American but the accent was unmistakably English. It happened as simply as that. As fatally. Her name was Etta -- Etta Waring. An ancestor of hers had written a diary of life here in the days before the first World War. She herself had just finished an international congress in Barcelona and had driven across here out of curiosity. She was an anthropologist, a doctor. He told her that he was a doctor, too, of physical science. And she said, "Reminds me of the story by -- Thurber, was it? -- one of the classical humorists -- no, Leacock. He was a doctor of literature. Aboard ship, a blonde nicked an ankle and the call went out for a doctor. Leacock rushed to her cabin but found that a doctor of divinity had beaten him by a short head." . They laughed together and the danger point -- talk of their occupations -- was past without his having had to reveal -- or conceal -- the exact nature of his work. They went surfing or planing over the calmer waters of St. Jeande-Luz along the coast -- or just lazed by the old port of Bayonne, watching the fishermen unload their immemorial freight. They were days made rich by simple pleasures. One day they drove in her replica E-Type Jaguar up into the Pyrenees, to the places of cold waterfalls and ancient villages. They stayed in one village, in an inn even tinier than the Auberge Basque and a room quaint with carved beams. And he knew then with a dreadful certainty that he had come full circle -- back to bitter memories, of mountains humbler than these, of a village less ancient, an inn... And this time threatened to be even more bitter, for now it was heartbreakingly sweet -- and this time it was mutual. At breakfast he knew that he had to tell her. At what should have been a time of quiet intimacy, of few words, over croissants and wild cherry conserve and coffee, he had to introduce the shockingly incongruous subject of his work. H e pushed his plate aside and, early as it was, ordered cognac. Etta's eyebrows rose but she did not demur. He tried to settle himself but the words still came out hopelessly awkward. "You know -- who I am? My job, I mean. You don't..." She smiled gently. "What, read the popular magazines? No, hardly at all. I didn't know who you were. I do now. I wrote home to my people to tell them about you. I hope you don't mind. They told me. They recognized you from the name and the description I gave them of you." "And they disapproved?" "Disapproved? Whyever should they?" She smiled again. "I'm a big girl, anyway. I'm thirty-three." "Thirty-three," he said, his face strange. "Yes, you told me. But you don't know the whole of it, obviously, or you wouldn't talk about it so calmly." "What -- the subjective time factor? Yes." "But you can't know the full implications. For us. Unless you do feel the same way I do, don't you?" "Do you have to ask?" "That's all we seem to be doing -- asking questions. There's no an swer, you know." "Every question has an answer." "You, a scientist, can say that?" "Because I'm a scientist -- yes. In time." "Don't mention that word again." He tried to smile. "Couldn't I go along with you this last trip? With my scientific' training I -- " "You'd be payload. Anthropology is the least required subject -- the least profitable line." "Profitable? I thought it was a government project. You mean it's a commercial thing?" "So far it is. There are no dividends for any government in it yet. Inner-planet traffic is a government-backed thing. There are still remnants of military thinking behind that, of national advantage. There isn't, of course, but the blocs are committed to it. At a considerable loss. Every assembly in the world has a strong anti-space lobby. No government that values its survival could afford to take the risk in deep space yet." IF It was a relief to talk about impersonal things for a moment. "For Deep Space Incorporated it's a long-term project. So longof capital that they're the only firm in the business so far -- after two hundred years. They sell the knowledge we bring back -- to research foundations, other companies -- but that doesn't pay for half of it. They're gambling on being the first in the field, with perfected techniques, inyreadiness for the day when it rqmly opens up out there. If it opens up. It's a big gamble. "What we do is to extend those techniques -- and our knowledge of deep space -- system by system. If one of us found a civilization out there comparable to ours things would open up in a heck of a hurry. Everybody knows now that that was the whole impetus behind man's hunger to get to the planets -- to find a companion race, a touchstone. Even the remains of one. But they didn't. Nor have we among the nearer stars. Just a few primitive species. Valuable to the biologists but nothing developed enough to be of interest to your field -- He was swinging back to personal matters now. And it could be deferred no . onger. "I'm payload enough. Every item of expenditure is costed down to a cent. The pay isn't huge by objective time standards. It just piles up while I'm away. But even I couldn't afford to commission a passenger -- even you." "Couldn't you pull out now?" "I could." He told het, briefly,  about the penalty clauses. "It would mean coming out with a few thousand dollars -- to start all over again on." "Money's not that important. I have money, anyway." "No -- the money's not important. And it's not the main factor in all this. Completing my mission is. I wouldn't call myself a company man -- companies seem pretty small things out there in space -- but I dedicated myself to this job. I have to go through with it." "I understand," she said quietly. "Neither could I give up my work -- even for us." "In your case it wouldn't be the same either-or choice. There could be a compromise. There's no compromise in this." He sniacked fist impotently into palm. "Why should this have had to happen now? The last time around?" She laid a hand on his. "It's hard -- terribly hard. I've known for three days. I knew it would make difficulties. I haven't let it spoil things." "You didn't know the full facts." "I knew enough. I won't let it spoil things now." "Then you can accept it, accept -- us -- as something transient?" "It doesn't have to be. You'll be away -- how long? Twenty, thirty years. I'm prepared -- " "No. I tried that once. It doesn't work. It couldn't work." He got up and paced the little room. The sun, moving between peaks, sent a sudden shaft through the unshuttered windows, drowning the room in light. She stood up and came to his side, her hair a golden haze. "Then we'll just have to accept it," she said quietly. "Easy words." "I know, my darling. Easy and shockingly inadequate. But what more can we say? Or do? We'll have memories. Hell, why do the simplest and truest things always sound so corny? But we mil have. And we can -- " She stopped abruptly. "How much longer have we got?" "Four, five weeks. At least -- " the thought impinged " -- I have." "Then so have I. A new academic year starts soon, but the University can do without me for that long. And I without the University." Her tone was flippant but her look, as she gazed at him, was one of utter tenderness. He took her into his arms and she was trembling. "I've always been glad to get back into space. Every time I've felt more and more a stranger on Earth. This time it's going to seem very lonely out there." He laughed sadly. "## a fine and private place, but none I think do there embrace.'" "That's not quite what the poet said." "I know. He said the grave. That's one place where all rates of time become equal. The only one." "Let's not get morbid." She kissed him once and long. "We've still got a lot of living to do. Let's get back to the big city." But she was abstracted, saying not a word unless prompted and then only answering in monosyllables, all the way back to town, driving along the narrow mountain roads like an automaton. When they got back he found a cable waiting for him. He was sure she noticed -- sure she guessed what it was -- but she made no comment. Up in his room he opened it. He did a simple sum, made even simpler by practice. He would be away for thirty-four years of Earth time. Two and a half of his own. It could have been worse. But when he came back for the last time he would be fortyfive. Etta would be sixty-seven. Exactly the same age that Helen had been. T he next morning he was up before eight. He knocked on her door. There was no answer. He shrugged; early as it was, she must have gone down to breakfast before him. He went down and to the table they had shared ever since that first night. She was not there either. He saw an envelope with his name on it. He felt suddenly empty. He pulled back the curtains. Her car IF was gone from the tiny, graveled parking lot. He brought himself to open the envelope. Beloved, I've taken the dawn flight to London. I don't know just how long I'll be. No more than a fortnight, I hope. Dreadfully sorry to cut into our time -- that bloody word again! -- like this, but it's for a good cause, believe me. I can't tell youany more until I get back -- and perhaps not even then if this doesn't work. Don't pick up any blonde English anthropologists while I'm away. Or anyone else! And please -- wait for me, beloved. Etta IV T he crippled days dragged along. He drank more Pernods than usual, spent more time at the casino, found that he could not face the sea. Its emptiness was too much an image of the lack in his life. ' Twelve days later she reappeared as abruptly as she had left. Her car was back in the lot and she was waiting for him at their table when he ca ne in for dinner. They looked at each other for a moment. Then she was out of her chair and in his arms, saying, "Darling -- darling." The French in the dining room smiled as the French have always smiled at lovers, tolerantly, sympathetically, the old nostalgically. "We can't talk here," he told her. "Have you eaten?" She shook her head. "I couldn't." "Nor could I, now." He led her onto the terrace. Somebody brought out glasses and a bottle of Pernod. Grant poured the drinks, watching them turn to milk as he added ice and water. He brought his eyes up at length to hers. "I've decided -- no, I couldn't bring myself to do that -- I'm ready to let you decide. If you say so I'll go back on my contract. I've had a lot of time to think it over while you've been away. The company won't lose that badly. They'll have a reserve pilot ready. I -- " She shook her head slowly, halting his words. "That's something I wouldn't hear of. I wouldn't before and I won't now. Besides, darling, it's too late." "Too late? What's happened? Why did you leave for London in such a hurry?" "To have an illegal operation." She spoke the words coolly. "A -- what?" "Well, not illegal exactly. Not yet sanctioned. It's a new technique and all kinds of social problems are involved. You know the way we English always worry about the social problems. The whole thing only took Hve days, from the start to the final checks to prove that it had taken. But I had to spend the best part of a week inducing the doctors to do it." "Please -- don't keep darting around the subject like this. Operation? What operation? What have you had done to yourself?" "You make it sound like something dreadful." She smiled. "And sad. It wasn't, because of my motive in having it done, though I suppose it could be." The smile became wry. "The ward was a fine and private place, but none I think did there embrace. They see the process as having most use in perpetuating intelligence. It's ironical, really, that it should have been used in this case to serve the cause of lovers." "For heaven's sake. Your blasted English cool -- " "It's not easy to tell. Briefly -- I've arranged that you will find me waiting for you when you come back, unchanged by the years." Appalled, his mind lurched back to Helen , and her pitiful attempts to defeat time and its passing. "You can't. I'll be away for thirtyfour years." Her smile became enigmatic as she made a pretense of counting on her fingers. "Fine. I'll be a slightly younger Etta waiting for you. By a few months." ' "What's happened to you? I thought I knew you. When did this sadistic streak creep in?" His voice was baffled rather than bitter. "I'm sorry, darling, really I am. I'm not being sadistic -- Just a little shy. I'll have to come out with it. I'm going to have a baby." "You're -- " "Don't be appalled. Just listen carefully while I say it again. I'm going to have a baby." "But -- " "I told you it was a new technique. Do I have to go into the details?" She sighed. "I suppose I do have. "Well, it's not really a new technique; only for humans. It was first done back in the nineteen sixties by an Oxford team led by a Dr. Gurdon, with -- if I have to bring them into this -- frogs. They found that if they transplanted the nucleus of an ordinary body cell into an egg killed by radiation -- its own nucleus killed -- the egg developed just like a fertilized one. The cell and the egg from the same creature. They've only recently discovered how to do the same thing successfully to a human being. Now do you see?" His mental defenses, overwhelmed, would not allow him to see it. He listened dazedly as she went on. "I told you that you will find me waiting for you. You will. It will be me -- exactly the same. Even to the name. I'll christen her Etta, too, naturally. And don't worry about its being anything else IF but a girl. That presents no difficulty these days, with this or any other birth." Light filtered through -- was suddenly blinding. "But -- it won't be you. To me it will be but -- " "But that's all that matters. We can't both of us meet again -- but this way one of us can." She laughed but she was close to tears, he knew, "If you see what I mean. It can come true for one of us." "I -- I can't find the words." "Don't try, my darling." "I must. I feel selfish -- more selfish than I could have believed a man could feel. You went away and did -- this -- and while you were gone I couldn't even come to a dethe Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Principal speaker: Larry Niven. For information: Kathy Surgenor, # N. Fairhill Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #. Sheraton Cc umbus Motor Hotel, # North Third Street, Columbus, Ohio. Guest-of-Honor: Lester del Rey. For information: Larry Smith # F Roche Drive, Columbus, Ohio #.  #th World Science Fiction Convention. At the Sheraton-Boston Hotel, Prudential Center, Boston, Massachusetts. Guest-of-Honor: Clifford D. Simak. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Harry Warner Jr. Features: movies, auctions, panels and speeches by sf pros, awards banquet, presentation of the Hugos. Registration: # supporting, # attending. No mail registration after August #. For information: Noreascon, P.O. Box # Cambridge, Massachusetts #. cision, except to leave it to you to decide. I feel the worst kind of a -- " She put a finger to his lips. "No, my dear, you're not the worst kind of anything. You're the best kind of something very special. And you're not selfish. Society is selfish in demanding what it has from you, without even recognizing the extent of your sacrifice. Except -- " "No," he said. "You can't use that word for me after what you've done. Yours is the sacrifice. I'm not -- " "Please -- let me go on. I insist. Except by treating you as some kind of a freak. I had plenty of time, in the ward, to catch up on the popular papers. Plenty of time to realize just what life must have been like for you. That only sustained me in my decision. I'm glad to have done it -- glad with all my heart.So please don't protest any more. It was the only way -- and it was a happy chance that this way existed and that I knew about it and was in a position to argue my way through to taking it." "But -- I won't protest -- but how do you know that she'll even like me? One sacrifice is enough. You can't condemn a child to growing up to a foreordained point in her life, and then -- it's a terrible compulsion to impose on a human bemg. She smiled but her lips trembled as she did so. "It won't be a compulsion, beloved, but a dream to live for. A realization. She will have the advantage on me. I didn't know, living my years out, just what I was waiting for. She will. And she will fall in love with you just as I did. Because she'll be me. Not an ordinary child, with all the genetic complications of joint parenthood, but my image." He stared. "But she won't have your memories -- of anything -- of us." "How do you think I will spend my days while you're away? I'll keep them alive, pass them on to my daughter. My daughter. It's a pity that it won't be our daughter. But next time around you can make even that come true." She turned her face away from him suddenly, hiding it in the cool leaf shadows of the terrace. But when, after long moments, she turned back to him she was managing to smile. "And who knows? The records are still scanty on this -- but that memory might be transmitted directly through this kind of direct reproduction. Part of me may be waiting for you, too. So let's have enough talk of sacrifices. And there are memories still to make. We haven't even started our drinks. Look, the ice has nearly all melted." She lifted her glass and waited, her face quite serene now, until he lifted his.  IF T he helicopter tossed the desert sunshine off its blades in sudden circular explosions and its shadow moved flatly across the sand far below. "Down there," said Spenser, leaning toward the cut-out door and pointing with a hand. His voice was loud and high-pitched to be heard over the clatter of the blades. "Di-rectly down there." Dr. Bunyan inclined his head and gazed a thousand feet down, to where a huge purple stain spread out on the desert floor like a port wine mark on a sandy cheek. "The exact center of the dissonance. We mapped it this week. Dropped the dye canisters yesterday afternoon." Dr. Bunyan stared up at the New Mexico sky and nodded, saying nothing. Spenser tapped the pilot on the shoulder and the helicopter swung about, around the axis of the main blades and tilted, accelerating back in the direction it had come from. Spenser turned his head and looked back to watch the huge stain disappear into the faint haze and then around the curve of the earth. Dr. Bunyan continued to stare at the immense blue sky, until a motion of the helicopter brought the sun over the cabin roof and into the cockpit windshield. D r. Bunyan stood up and walked slowly to the window, looking out between the dusty Venetian blinds. Spenser sat lhind hi small desk and rolled a mechanical pencil back and forth. "It's not a matter of what I think, you understand." Dr. Bunyan ran one finger along a metal slat. "It's that the thinking in Washington has changed. We no longer talk in terms of what is interesting, what is worthy of pure research. No. Not that at all." He rubbed one eye against the sunlight and his gray hair caught and reflected the ribbed brightness from the window. "We must think of resource allocations -- that's the phrase they use now. You've heard it, haven't you?" Spenser nodded listlessly, not looking up from the mechanical pencil that rolled steadily between his hands. "Resource allocations -- the liberals make it a matter of morality, plain and simple morality. Saying, 'Well, what good is this going to do for mankind?' " Dr. Bunyan gestured expansively, liberally, with his hands. "And we can't talk to them in pure research terms. It's morality for them, resource allocations." He shook his head, turning from the window, and sat down in the single other chair in the office, gazing not unkindly at Spenser. Spenser shifted uncomfortably and coughed into his hand. "The dye marks the. exact center of the magnetic dissonance -- there's no doubt about that. Before now it couldn't have been done." He IF smiled weakly and put the pencil in his jacket pocket. Dr. Bunyan nodded and placidly folded his hands. "I appreciate that. It's a fine accomplishment. But it took two months and eight hundred thousand dollars. Can I go back to Washington and tell them they bought a purple spot on lars?" He spread his hands: a mute portrayal of the forces he battled. Spenser snorted and stood up. "Come now, Doctor. Let's be adult about this. That purple spot marks the center of a sudden dissonance measured in the magnetic flux of the northern hemisphere. Three months ago i held the Steinberg research professorship in geophysics at Princeton. I worked thirty-five years to get there. I didn't leave it for a purple spot on the desert. This is significant research, Dr. Bunyan, not a game." Dr. Bunyan nodded violently in agreement and stood up quickly, walked to the metal desk and leaned on it with both hands. "We realize that." His unbuttoned jacket flapped loosely. "I respect your reputation more than anyone. But I'm trying to tell you as gently as I can that there may just be no more money forthcoming for this iy,)t of research. That's the way jt is. I can't change that." Spenser stood facing a blackboard, his back to Bunyan. He put one fist up to his mouth and held it there tensely. "I didn't understand that. I thought there was a great deal of enthusiasm for this project." "There is Edmund, there is. I assure you. But we're not as rich as we once were. We've used up things we'll never have again. It's time to allocate resources." Spenser said nothing, and after a time Dr. Bunyan eased back into the chair and crossed his legs. seen nothing like." One burro became restless and stepped into the wide purple circle. The boy pulled it back quickly. He was perhaps six inches shorter than his father. The bottoms of his blue jeans were rolled up thickly around his boots. The older man pushed his widebrimmed black hat back farther and wiped his forehead with a sweaty arm. "Never seen nothing like this -- that's the truth. Just overnight, too. Weren't here yestaddy, was it boy?" The boy shook his head. "I come out here early yestaddy, first thing in the morning, wasn't nothing then." He stared out at the other side of the bright purple splotch. "Must be fifty, sixty feet 'cross. Pa. Wouldn't you say .that?" Pa leaned back on the burro and scratched his armpit slowly, contemplatively. "I'd say that at least, boy, at least." He pursed his lips and the expression made the stubni ble of his whiskers gather like magnetized iron Tilings in the wrinkles of his cheeks. "Ain't natchel -- " his voice rose on the second word -- "ain't a natchel thing, not at all." The boy squatted down and picked up a handful of the purple sand. "Just up here on top Pa. It don't go down very far. Like paint, Pa." Pa laughed, his head jerking back and the muscles of his neck bunching like rocks under the skin. "Nobody gonna come out this far to paint a purple circle in the desert. That don't make no sense." His smile faded and he coughed once and frowned. "But why is it right here boy? Why right here? That can't be no coinceedence." The boy gauged the distance with his eye. "It's right around it, no mistake. Like somebody knew. Pa, knew just where it was." He shook his head and looked out over the desert floor. Far to the north gray mountains rose like tiny piles of clay. To the south the mountains disappeared under the horizon. "Sure is a mystery. Pa." S penser went through the charts quickly, pointing out the increasing refinement of the mapping technique. His hands shook slightly and a thin line of sweat had formed on his upper lip: it remained unevaporated in the airconditioning of the small office. Dr. Bunyan noted each chart with polite interest, asking an occasional question. His dark blue suit was still perfectly pressed, even after a full day in the New Mexico heat. "Truly marvelous," he said finally. "Very fine work." Spenser nodded absently, running his fingers over the carefully colored surface. "But no explanation for the dissonance yet? Not even ah -- " he glanced up at the ceiling -- "a preliminary finding I can take back to the department?" Spenser hit the charts with the back of his hand. "Explanation? We just found the place! Monday we're sending out equipment to start digging. At least give us the time to do the excavation. We're budgeted for that," he added with slight bitterness, rolling the charts back up tightly with both hands. "Just some educated guesses then. What might do it?" Spenser turned and gazed past Dr. Bunyan. "Nothing. Nothing could do it -- cause that dissonance. There is no possible explanation. Six months ago there was a shift in the magnetic field. Slight, but still compasses from the Aleutians to Greenland moved several seconds. No seismic activity here. Not even minutely enough ferrous material to explain things -- assuming there was an earthquake." Dr. Bunyan chewed delicately at a fingernail and stared at Spenser silently. IF "It is an entirely new phenomenon. It may explain a great deal." He shrugged and adjusted his new questions. But it deserves to be investigated." He turned back abruptly to the charts, avoiding Bunyan's eye. Dr. Bunyan nodded and gestured weakly with one hand. "If it were my money I'd have no hesitation. But -- " He let the sentence die in the flat air-conditioning. "If it were your money," said Spenser in a flat voice, sliding the charts into a cardboard tube, "you'd put it in a Swiss bank and move to Bermuda. So would I." Bunyan laughed with faint embarrassment and followed Spenser out of the room. L ate that night the boy stared up at the ceiling from the top bunk, his nose less than a foot from the rough boards that allowed narrow slices of moonlight entrance on occasional nights. He slept in a long flannel shirt against the sudden cold of the desert. "It's only been six months. Pa, and it turns puille. Don't seem right." Pa leaned back in his chair and put one boot sideways on the table. He lifted an aluminum cup to his lips. ' It didn't turn purple. Somebody turned it purple. We find 'em we oughta kick shit outta 'em." He nodded to himself. "Kick shit." The boy reached behind his head with one hand and felt the Bible, foursquared underneath the pillow. "Pa, could it be a signT' "A what, boy?" He squinted up and saw only narrow lines of moonlight. "A sign." The boy paused and cleared his throat. "From the Lord." "Hmmmm. Huh." The sound rumbled deep in his chest, and he drank from the aluminum cup again. "Don't think so, boy. The Lord, He woulda made it purple all the way through, not just up on top. He woulda made it brighter, too. Glowing, you know." The boy nodded slightly to himself. "I was thinking that, too. That it wasn't quality enough for the Lord." He pulled the flannel shirt around him and turned to the wall. Pa stared up at the picture above the table, the woman smiling down shyly in faded black and white, the crucifix hanging next to it, in darkening ivory plastic. He drained the aluminum cup and set it squarely in the center of the table and sat for a long while, seeing nothing. S penser struck his wife full across the face twice that night, the second blow sending her backward into the pressboard-and-formica nightstand that separated the two motel beds. He had struck her before -- occasionally as a graduate student, he recalled -- but less the last few years at Princeton. Both times this night in New Mexico she refused to cry. The second time, after hitting the nightstand, her leg bled slightly, and the sight of the blood made Spenser sickened and guilty. He went outside and sat on a stack of wooden boxes next to the cold-drink machine for fifteen minutes before the chill infiltrated his bathrobe and he felt forced to go back inside. "Damn," he said to the locked bathroom door. "Damn. Leaving Princeton was a dumb-ass mistake." Silence. He looked around the small motel room they had rented for the last two months, uncertain as to the future of the project. "This is all a mistake. We'll go back. It'll be fine." He felt unsatisfied by the words. He went to lie down on the bed, staring up at the ceiling, his hands behind his head. The bathroom door stayed closed. T he dawn spread in the east like smeared fingerpaints. "Privacy," said Pa, tying the shovel with thick hemp rope to the blanketed side of the burro. "No damn privacy any more. You know that boy? No privacy." The boy nodded, finishing a knot and pulling on his shovel to see if it would slip. Pa coughed violently, raspingly, and when he finished they headed north, figuring to reach the huge purple stain before the real heat of the day grew up out of the sand. fragments of the weekend still stuck to him, a headache, a toothache, loud voices and broken sleep. "Goddamn sonofabitch." The bank of instruments rose a full foot over his head -- the slowly unrolling tongues of the oscillographs, the nodding needles of meters, the flashing pupils of digital readouts, the nervous traces of dark green oscilloscope screens. Spenser rested his forehead against a barely warm metal surface. "It can't have moved." He shook his head, eyes closed. "There is no way for it to have moved." He tapped his fingers on a plastic shelf. "It's a new instrument," he told the operator. "The array must be damaged somehow. Birds or lightning." He knew that it had been clear weather and that birds could never be magnetic. He shook his head again. "Send someone up to check it. We'll hold the truck until we're sure." T here was faint, continual static on the telephone line to Washington. "It's a setback. Dr. Bunyan. But it is by no means hopeless." I see. "There are setbacks in every worthwhile project. We've been very lucky up until now." IF "That's certainly true." "We'll simply relocate it and send out the excavators a little later in the week. Say, Thursday." "Well. Whatever is within your budget." "That is the difficulty Dr. Bunyan. We may need a slight extension. Dr. Bunyan?" "Still here. Ah. Do whatever you can within your present budget and I'll see if I can get some provisional financing. No promises." "I didn't expect any." "Fine. As long as we understand each other." "It moved," said Spenser, sitting on the bed. His wife stared at him momentarily in the mirror and looked back at her hair. "The damn thing moved. Just like that. Over the weekend, it moved." Mrs. Spenser shook her head very slightly. "My goodness." "Your goodness," he said, his hand jerking so that an ice cube bounced out of the glass he held and fell onto the carpet. "We'll find it tomorrow." He nodded, rocking back and forth. "We'll have it marked out by noon. There'll bfe an extension, for sure. Bunyan's a good man. He's on our side." Spenser stood up and walked to the dresser, remembering a moment too late that the bottle stood on the nightstand. His wife laughed gently into the mirror -- he noticed but chose to ignore her. A Spenser into the microphone. "If I don't have your readings every ten seconds we'll do this all day." He handed the microphone back to the radio operator and the three planes began to report a series of figures. Spenser noted each one on a map and simultaneously it was typed into a land line that ran to Phoenix. The planes flew a gradually converging pattern in the blue New Mexico sky, slicing twenty feet of airspace off an imaginary triangle with each turn. Next to Spenser a teletype rattled. The computer calculated loci of the three separate figures he received. Shaded areas on the map gradually grew smaller. Spenser used his yellow slide rule frequently at first, then increasingly less as the increments of change became so small that he was forced to rely on the computer readout for useful accuracy. FinalNew sebscriiiHoiit aad ctianges af aikirass require # weeks fe precessi ly a single point remained, nearly a mile from the original mark. He touched the radio operator on the shoulder. "Fine. We've got it. Bring two home and have the third drop the canisters." "Wind north-northwest eight knots," said the operator. Far out on the desert a small Cessna headed directly into the path of the light wind and two cylindrical metal containers fell from the window. They twisted slightly in the air and landed, exploding on impact, several feet apart in the hot brown sand. T he sun. was high, still faintly obscured by thin dry clouds. Pa took his hat off and ran a finger around the sweat band, staring out over the back of the burro. "They done it green this time. They done it up bright green; you see that?" The boy nodded and spat -- away from the immense green circle. He narrowed his eyes and looked out into the center, where the earth was freshly dug, piled a little higher than the surrounding sand. "Somebody watching us. Pa? Somebody watching what we do from somewheres around here?" Pa shrugged, settling the hat back on his head. "Nah, I don't think so. You can't never tell, though." He kicked at the edge of the green circle and the sand flew up, a blurred mixture of green and light brown. "We're gonna have to do something about this here." The boy still had his shovel tied to the side of his burro. He began to slip the knot around to where he could reach it. Pa coughed, gazing at the small mound in the center of the green circle. "Hate like hell to dig her up twice in a row. Don't seem right." The boy buried the Made of the shovel in the sand and wrapped the rope into a coil around his arm, not looking up. "Your ma wouldn't mind though, you understand?" The boy nodded, pulling the shovel out of the ground, swinging it onto his shoulder. When he looked up three small birds had settled on the mound in the center of the green circle. He wiped his forearm across his upper lip. "That's funny. Pa, mighty funny, the way Ma useta -- " he searched for the word -- "attract li'l birds, li'l animals." He pointed with the blade of the shovel. "Look like she still do." The older man stared at his son for a moment. "You getting to be a lot like your ma, you know? A lot." He looked behind the boy, at the desert floor. On the short path his son had walked from the burro to the edge of the circle, tiny pebbles had quietly aligned themselves with the sides of his feet, pointing his direction in two perfectly straight lines like marching soldiers. "C'mon Pa," he said, glancing away. "We gotta dig."  vV I Have you ever had the feeling that somebody is watching you -- and not giving a damn  T he passing of Carl Bernardi stirred a great deal of conversation in the scientific community but little sympathy. That his death was an irreplaceable loss to science was too apparent to warrant argument. His work in the field of photics had opened whole new vistas for science. It was rumored that at the time of his death he was working on a method of light propulsion for spacecraft. Wilder rumors hinted that he had been aiming for a space speed only slightly lower than that of the propulsive force itself. These rumors were not true. Few tears were shed. Bernardi had been a solitary, distant man. The few papers he had presented had been delivered in a flat monotone, so low that the audience strained to hear and, resenting it, branded him an ineffectual speaker and contemptuous of his audience. When one of Bernardi's few friends told him this he shrugged. "I am a scientist, not an entertainer. And I am contemptuous of fools. If they consider themselves in that category -- " He shrugged again. He worked alone, published his discoveries at his leisure, was never overanxious to share his finds. He was labeled as antisocial, cold, selfish. I had known Carl Bernardi for over ten years. While I certainly did not claim a close or even friendly relationship with the man. he at least tolerated my presence. That word, too, lends to the untruths they are spinning about him. His was not a grudging acceptance of existence -- he simply noticed it when it was relevant. My relationship with Carl Bernardi was an extension of my father's acquaintance with him during their college years. Acquaintance is the only term one can use. Each knew the other's face, though they often had to struggle for the 'name that went with it. My father's preoccupation with science was only slightly less than Bernardi's. How he emerged from it long enough to wed my mother and sire me is a scientific mystery in itself. So I was at least admitted to Bernardi's home and laboratory. Actually, I believe anyone would have been, despite the rumors. If one could bear being unnoticed one could sit all day and watch Bernardi work. I often watched him when I was young, fascinated by his absolute absorption as he deftly worked with impossible and sterilely beautiful apparatus or as he scribbled equations like long strings of Sanskrit across his blackboard. I could not watch my father. Spectators bothered him. So I watched Bernardi, who neither knew nor cared. I could even watch him think. I once saw him stare, motionless and rapt, at the old EMC# on his blackboard for over an hour. Watching, I fanIF cied the whirr of a computer tape behind his eyes. At last he rose, stepped briskly to the blackboard, drew a line under the formula, and placed a Figure one under the line. Bernardi then pocketed the chalk, left the room and had not returned when I left an hour later. During that hour I gazed in awe at the blackboard, wondering if I had just been witness to an alteration of one of the most sacred icons of science. A few years later I asked Bernardi about it and what it had meant. He said he didn't know, could not remember the episode and, in any event, it made no sense whatever. I did not trust his answer, will always wonder if that magnificent mind had mislaid the discovery of the century. years in England, where I had tried and failed to write a novel, the first person I went to see -- after my father, who had nodded and smiled as though I had gone to the corner for a newspaper -- was Bernardi. After two years of failure the appeal of Bernardi, who could not fail -- forI believe even proving himself in error was a satisfaction to him -- was obvious. His housekeeper admitted me to the old white rame building which was Bernardi's home and laboratory. She nodded without a smile, glanced at my shoes for mud and left me without a word (Dear friends and family, I thought, don't make over me). I walked down the long narrow hall to the laboratory. Partitions had been removed and his lab occupied more than half of the lower floor of the building. Even remembering the clean clutter of apparatus which had always characterized Bernardi's laboratory, I was unprepared for what I saw. An immense, gleaming steel turnip filled the room. It resembled, at least, a turnip, and must have been thirty feet long and twenty feet wide at the bulge. The tip tapered along a tube, also of some shining metal, and culminated in a heavy, safe-like box, the thickness of its walls apparent through a port glass which must have been easily four inches thick. At the end of the steel turnip, where the greens would have been, was a mask, like a welder's mask and within it an eyepiece. Bernardi was not at the eyepiece. He was standing beside the grotesque machine, staring in through the port at -- nothing. Nothing at all. The interior of the safe, well lighted, was empty. I watched him for some time. "Doctor?" I said finally and in a few minutes he turned to me. "Ah, yes," he said and stepped forward to shake my hand. It was the first time he had ever touched me. I would have wrung out the moment embarrassingly but he detached almost immediately. "What is Mr. -- ah -- Dr. -- ah -- what is your father doing?" I thought it admirable of him to even connect the two of us. Never mind that he couldn't recall my name. "I don't know," I said. "When I left him he was putting a rabbit into a cellophane bag." "Ah, yes," said Bernardi as if that explained everything. He began to shuffle past me toward the door and I thought that our reunion, beautiful as it had been, was at an end. Then he stopped and turned. "You write?" "Very little. An occasional Christmas card." The bitterness was lost on him and I felt like a fool for it. "Is it important to you?" he asked. "To write?" I considered it. "It must be," I said. "Something has to be. It's all I know to do." He nodded. "Yes. You are like me." I was astounded. Then -- suddenly -- I knew that it was true. "Come here," he said, "and look. It may destroy you or liberate you. Perhaps both. They may be the same." I walked cautiously to the steel turnip. "Look there." He motioned me to the eyepiece. I bent to it. I blinked several times, adjusting my eye to the mechanism. A myriad of flashing, multicolored pinpoints of light, whirling and flashing, seemed to streak past me. Imagine a Fourth of July sparkler held inches from your eyes. That was how it was. "What is it?" "Let me increase the magnification." The flashing streaks of light slowed and became stationary. Thousands of them. We moved in upon a loose grouping of them, perhaps twenty or more, at varying distances from a central brilliant point of light. It was much larger than the surrounding particles. If they were pinpoints it was the size of a pea and glowing brightly. "What is it?" I repeated. "A molecule. Californium."  "It -- it looks like the solar system." The magnification increased, focusing on one of the pinpoints. The others were lost from the range of my vision as this one grew. It filled the circular scope of the lens, oblate, vaguely white and shimmering. "I don't understand," I said. "There seems to be -- movement -- as though the particle were made up of gases in violent motion." "The -- particle, as you put it -- is solid enough. The movement is the motion of clouds." I smiled at him uncertainly. I hadn't realized that Bernardi possessed a sense of humor. "Clouds," he continued, "drifting slowly through the attimes smaller than a flyspeck." "Slowly?" It was all I could bring myself to say. The man was not joking. IF "Slowly to them." "Them? My God, are you saying -- " "Yes. Keep watching." The image grew, became lost in the swirling whiteness. Then a faint tinge of rusty pink suffused the mist and it disappeared. "The infrared," murmured Bernardi. The white was replaced by blurred, streaking hues of browns and reds and greens and blues, forming a mass of twisted, sinuous color. I turned, baffled, to Bernardi. "The colors are from the movement of their worlds. The changing seasons, falling leaves, children at play -- " He sat heavily at one of the laboratory tables. "I still don't understand. How can you tell? It was all a blur." "Time is relative. One second to us is perhaps a thousand of their years. Since you turned from that microscope, a thousand generations have perhaps come and gone. Legends have risen and died, civilizations have been lost and rediscovered." "Fantasy. You're guessing. How can you tell?" I insisted. Bernardi rosp and crossed the room to a cabinet. "I photographed them," he said. "Impossible." Bernardi smiled slightly, withdrew a manila packet from the cabinet. "No camera or process exists which is sensitive or fast enough to stop action at such a speed." "Tuttle's camera is capable of said Bernardi. "Much too slow. However, using Tuttle's camera as a starting point and applying certain principles of the hologram -- " "The three-dimensional photograph?" "Yes. Rather than film, my device uses a strip of plastic about a dozen microns thick. By refracting laser light, directing it against the length of the plastic, I was able to capture a good many more frames per second than Tuttle." "How many more?" haps." I almost said impossible again, then realized that I was overusing the word. "I suppose that envelope Bernardi opened the envelope. "I'm afraid not. It is extremely difficult to process the exposed plastic, more difficult to separate the pictures -- something like trying to dissect a spider web. Of the hundreds I have tried to process, I have succeeded in obtaining three." The pictures were blurred and too bright, such as an inexperienced photographer might take, but the objects were clearly recognizable. In one a child was playing with an animal, much like a dog, while in the background was the very shadowy figure of a woman, the child's mother, perhaps, standing with elbows bent and hands on her hips. Another was a street scene. Crowds of people, blurred to varying degrees, rushed in both directions before a building with a sign in lettering unknown to me. In the third the building was gone. The scene seemed to be a jungle. Dense growth, hanging vines, were thick about a small pool. At the edge of the pool, a pack of pig-shaped creatures, covered with long, tangled hair, tore at an object on the ground. "How much time separates these?" I asked Bernardi. "Who knows? I could perhaps calculate the total number of frames on the plastic and arrive at a rough estimate of the time span the strip contains. But many of the pictures -- most of the pictures are completely worthless, many are fused. It would be a lifetime's work." He shrugged. "It doesn't matter, at any rate. However, those three were within a fraction of an inch of each other on the strip. And they were all taken at the same spot." "It could be a thousand years." "Or two," said Bernardi. "Or three or four. As I say, it doesn't matter." "Doesn't matter? This is the most amazing -- these pictures -- these people -- " "Those people have been dead "But the implications -- " B ernardi snorted, "implications? Fact. The fact that there arm's grasp of you, worlds that evolve and develop and live out minutes or hours. Populated worlds. People like us, perhaps, trying to penetrate the secrets of their universe, their gods, but also people who laugh and sin and suffer. They bear children, worry about their youiig, lust and love and swindle and perform heroic acts. And die. Some of them, before their worlds explode or collapse, may travel through their endless space to other planets and return to grand orations on how their race has begun to unlock the secrets of space. Then -- one of our minutes later -- their world is gone." Bernardi paused to light his pipe. He held the match before him a moment before he blew it out. "How many worlds do you suppose I just destroyed by that flame?" I shuddered. He noticed and smiled. "That was my first reaction," he said. "I found myself hesitating to light a match, to take a step, to bite into an apple. It soon passes. Gods like us cannot allow ourselves to care too much." "Gods?" "Are we not? If they were aware of our existence don't you believe that they would build temples to us, pray daily that we didn't light that divine match?" I turned back to the microscope and put my eye to it, still too shakIF en to think or speak clearly. I found the image but the colors were gone. There was only blinding light. "Something's wrong," I said. Bernardi stepped beside me and bent to the eyepiece. "No." He straightened. "That world is gone. Destroyed." "But how?" "Who knows? Nova, perhaps. Perhaps I did it. The controlled conditions I use to allow observation of such a world may upset its natural balance. I don't know. It doesn't matter." "It must matter," I said. "It doesn't, believe me." Bernardi replaced the photos in the envelope. He turned back to me. I had not noticed before how drawn and tired his face appeared. "I apologize to you," he said. "I hope the apology is unnecessary -- but in case it is not, I apologize." "For what?" "I feel that you are a sensitive man. I am no judge of such things, since I have never been a sensitive person myself. I was too concerned about how little time I had for my work to concerft myself with sensitivity." He took the envelope back to the cabinet. "I felt the beginnings of sensitivity -- much as you did -- when I wrtched my first world disintegrate. But I have since found that this is not the thing that concerns me. If you should discover what does, just remember that I have apologized in advance." He shut the door of the cabinet, stared at it for a moment, then walked by me without a glance and left the laboratory. Two days later he was dead. An explosion leveled his laboratory, destroying his notes, his apparatus, his pictures and himself. It was at first considered accidental but the autopsy showed that he had died of gas inhalation, and they found the note when they cleared the rubble. It was very terse, typical of him. "My death is my own doing," it said, "and no one else's. My will is attached." He left everything to the church, which was not typical. But I think I have the answer to the question that was Carl Bernardi. He could not reconcile himself to a life of seconds, no matter whose. And the bequest of the money -- his little joke, perhaps his only joke. I began to realize these things after a few weeks of hesitating to light a match and take a step. Then I found the hesitation replaced by another nagging sensation, one which I -- which all of us -- have felt and dismissed lightly. I feel it now. The feeling of being watched.  strange ad again. It had not been placed by any agency she recognized and it gave no telephone number. Just an address in a blah neighborhood. It hardly looked promising -- but she was desperate. She caught a bus. She concentrated on the ad as she rode, as though it had further secrets to yield. She was qualified: she was a capable dental assistant with three years experience in the office of a good dentist, and she was also a hygienist. She knew that few girls were both and many would not touch the clerical end of to travel across the world if need be. She was twenty-six years old and looked it. She got along well with people and seldom lost her temper. So why couldn't she get a job? The bus jolted heavily over a set of tracks, shaking her loose from this pointless line of thinking. She knew what her problem was: she peared mysteriously. A construction worker might fall off a beam and get killed and nobody blamed his co-workers. A big-game hunter might get eaten by the game, yet his bearers could find other employment. A politician might get removed from office for malfeasance, while his staff stepped into better positions. But let a smalltown dentist vanish -- She shook her head. She was thinking inaccurately. Much of her difficulty was her own fault: she had tried to tell the truth. Naturally no one had believed her story of weird aliens holding her captive work on their astonishing teeth. There had been no substantiating evidence except for the simple fact that he was gone without trace. Now the aura of that wild story hung about her, an albatross, killing any chance she might have had to find other employment in the profession. In this corner of the world, at any rate. Had she claimed that a mobster had murdered the dentist and sunk him in concrete with shoes of water (or was it the other way around?) she might have been clear. But the truth had ruined her. Aliens from space? Lunacy! The bus halted near the address. She stepped down regretfully. This was an unfamiliar section of town, illkempt and menacing. Beer cans glittered amid the tall weeds of an empty lot. Down the littered street a drunk spotted her and ambled nearer. The bus blasted its noxious gases at her and shoved off. Only one structure approximated the address: a cylindrical building several stories tall and pointed at the top. Its outer wall was shiny metal and surprisingly modernistic for such a region. Yet the lot had not even been cleared, except for the narrow boardwalk leading to the entrance. She started to turn back. Something was unsubtly wrong about this ad and the address. What possible use could they have for an experienced dental assistant here? But the reality of her situation turned her about again. The bus was gone, the drunk was almost upon her, she had barely three dollars in her purse and her resources beyond that were scant. She had either to take what offered or throw away all her training and apply for unspecialized employment. She pictured herself making beds, scrubbing floors, baby-sitting. Suddenly the nameless ad seemed more promising. She outwalked the drunk and knocked on the cylinderhouse door. This was a circular affair arranged to resemble a ship's porthole. Modern architecture never ran out of innovations. After a few seconds it opened, the metal lifting up and out, drawbridge fashion. She took a nervous breath and entered a small, bare antechamber. "Name?" a voice said. For an instant she had fancied it it was some kind of recorded answering service whose intonation just happened to resemble that familiar voice. She answered the routine questions automatically. That voice unnerved her and enhanced her depression. She had, of course, never let him know, but her initial renical and ethical finesse had over the months and years deepened into a considerable appreciation of the man himself and even -- She became aware that the questions had ceased. An inner panel opened. "You have been accepted. Miss Galland of Earth," the recording said. A figure stepped through the new doorway. Judy was not the screaming type. She screamed. UT I'm not a dentist," Judy told the transcoder. "I'm a dental assistant and hygienist and light bookkeeper, as you must know." The transcoder typed her words onto a stick in the form of indentations and the North Nebulite took this. He poked it into the orifice beneath his triple-slit nose and chewed gently. What Jaw motions constituted reading, as opposed to writing (typing?) she couldn't tell, but in a moment he fed the talk-stick back into the machine. "You are Dr. competent but aloof. We searched for you. We obtained you. This is his laboratory. So assist." She peered at the alien paraphernalia. It had been a substantial education, finding out exactly IF Horrible as the purple-lipped, double-jointed North Nebulites -- Enens, according to DHlingham's invented information coded into the transcoder -- appeared, they were pleasant enough when understood. The two designated to show her around were Holmes and Watson, though either answered (or failed to answer) to either name. "I never worked in the lab itself. Not that way. I can't make a reconstruction. I'm not allowed to perform dentistry on a patient -- not by myself. I assist the dentist while ham?" Holmes assimilated the new stick and bit off a reply . The Enens had been cagey about the late news assurances that he was doing well. She kept inserting the question in the hope that one of them would slip and give her an answer. This We sold him to the b'h muck-amuck of deep." Judy started to laugh at the grohung on that entity. He must have enjoyed himself hugely as he programed the transcoder. On Earth he had always been serious. She sobered abruptly. "Sold him?" "He was on contract, same as you. Hostage against the expense of his procurement and shipment. Perfectly regular." "I'm on -- You advertised for an assistant not for a slave! You can't buy and sell human beings." "Why not?" She was not the spluttering type. She spluttered. "It just isn't done -- not on Earth." Both Enens masticated that. "We aren't on Earth," Holmes pointed out. "Your ballbase players are bought and sold on Earth," Watson said. "Everything is in order according to Galactic codes." aren't ballbase -- baseball -- players. And it isn't the same. This is kidnaping." The Enens nibbled sticks, not understanding what all the fuss was about. "Everything is in order. We told you that. Now will you assist?" Judy dropped that tack for the moment. The Enens had not mistreated her, after all, and it was rather exciting being on another world -- she could never have afforded passage on her own. At -- that fact alone just about made up for the rest of it. She had not had any particularly inviting future on Earth. "Well, how about letting me talk to the muck-a-muck? I can't accomplish much here by myself." "But you applied for a position at Enen!" "I changed my mind." It took her several more days to establish that her mind, once changed, was absolutely set. She did convince them that their own technicians were far more competent in the laboratory than she, though far less competent than had been sold. She suspected that Earth was about to sustain another dental raid -- but finally she was on her way to deep.Otold the muck-a-muck. "I'm so I can -- assist him." "He departed last week," the whale-like ruler of water-world deep communicated. This was the first time she had conversed with an entity while standing inside him -- but such was Galactic existence. "Then I must follow him." "Do you realize that we paid a hundred pounds of premium-grade frumpstiggle for your contract? You were billed as an associate of prosthodontist. Now the prince's molars are beginning to itch again -- and only a practitioner of Dillingham's status can abate the condition." restorations those teeth should be giving no trouble," she said loyally. "Probably all your son needs now is some instruction in preventive maintenance. Teeth can't be ignored, you know. You have to take proper care of them." "That's exactly what he said. You are his associate." She sighed. "In that respect, yes. But as for -- " "Excellent. Provide the prince with expert instruction." "First we have to come to an understanding," she said. She was, by fits and starts, learning how to deal with Galactics. "If I instruct the prince you must agree to send me to the planet to which Dr. Dillingham went." "Gladly. He traveled hence with a free-lance diplomat from Trachos. Their destination was -- let me look it up in my tertiary memory bank -- Electrolus." "Fine, I'll go there." Then she reconsidered. "I came to Enen too late and to Gleep 'too late. How can I be sure he'll still be at Electrolus, when -- " The communications tentacles of the huge Gleep-creature's lung chamber waved and the transcoder dutifully rendered this visual signal into English. "A perspicacious point. Suppose we send you to the diplomat's following client? That's -- one moment, please -- Ra. The radium exporter." She was dubious. "Suppose Dr. ter all?" "Then at least you'll be in touch with Trach, the diplomat. He is an obliging fellow and he has his own ship." She considered that, still not entirely satisfied. She had had experIF ience with obliging fellows possessing their own transportation. Dillingham had been a pleasing contrast. But, of course, this was not Earth and it did seem to be her best chance. "All right. Ra it is. Let's see the prince now." H er heart sank when she saw Ra. There was no green on the surface if the planet; the entire landscape seemed to consist of tailings from the mines, mounded into mountains and eroded into valleys. Radium mines -- she had realized the significance of that too late. They were notorious throughout the galaxy for the effect their depths had on living creatures. The local ore, called pitchcar, was extraordinarily rich; thus it required only fifty tens of the stuff to produce a full ounce of radium. The noncommercial byproducts such as uranium were discarded wherever convenient; there was no trash collection. The ship landed ungently. The front port burst open, admitting a foul cloud of native smog. Several troll-like tripeds stomped in. One spoke, his voice like dry bones being run through an unoiled grinder. "Slaves of Ra," the central translator rasped, the words muffled by the babel of other renditions for the benefit of a score of miserable species. "Cooperate, and you may survive for years. Malinger, and you will receive inclement assignments. Any questions?" Judy felt sorry for the prisoners but knew there was nothing at all she could do for them. "Sir," a lovely ladybug called melodiously. "We are very hungry -- True enough. There had been no food aboard and the trip had lasted sixteen hours. Many galactic species had much more active metabolisms than human beings had and some were in a bad way. "The others will be hauled to the force-feeding station after processing. You will wait for the following shift for sustenance, with half-rations for two days. Any other questions?" There were none. The hapless prisoners had gotten the message. "Now disembark promptly as I call your names. Aardvark." A creature vaguely resembling its Earthly namesake emerged from its compartment and ambled forward. "Too slow," the translator barked. A troll aimed a rod and a beam of energy stabbed out. A patch of fur on Aardvark's rump burst into flame and the odor of scorched flesh drifted back. He broke into a gallop. Judy had not quite believed the pessimism of the prisoners as they traveled -- she had talked with several. She had been naive. This was horrible. "Bugbear." A beetle the size of a bear lumbered hastily out, as well it might: a touch of the laser would puncture its ifiin shell and send its juices spewing. "Cricketleg." The next jumped down. Judy wondered how the rollcall came to be alphabetical in English, since the translator assigned names purely by convenience of description. This was merely another mystery of galactic technology. "Dogface." This one yelped as the beam singed his tail. "Earthgirl." Judy sat frozen. It couldn't be! ham. A troll tramped down the aisle, poking his beamer ahead aggressively. He braced his three knobby legs, reached out with a hairy arm and grasped her hair in one hank. He yanked. "No!" she cried. "I'm only visiting! I'm not a prisoner -- " The troll hauled her up until she stood on tiptoes to ease the pain. "Visiting?" He aimed the beamer at her face. "Trach!" she screamed. "Trach of Trachos! I'm here to see -- " "A malingerer," the troll said. "I shall make an example. First I shall vaporize her squat snout." He flicked one of his four thumbs over a setting on the beamer and pressed the business end against her nose. "One moment, troll," the translator said. Such instruments were versatile, serving as telephones and radios as well as language transposers. "I believe I heard my name." The triped hesitated, grimacing. "Who are you, butting into private business?" "Trach, naturally. Be so kind as to deliver that creature to me, undamaged." "I don't know no Trach." "Oh? Here is my identification." A phonetic blob sounded. "Hm," the troll said, disgruntled. "#ia Trach. Well, send her on to the branding station when you're through with her." Shoved out roughly, Judy tied up her hair temporarily and followed the translator's instructions to reach Trach's office. "Turn right, prisoner," the unit outside the ship snapped. She turned right; the other miserable aliens turned left, headed for the dismal rigors of processing. She felt guilty. The spaceport, despite its choking atmosphere, was enclosed. She could make out the blowing dust beyond the grimy window panels, showing that it was actually worse outside. She heard the shriek of ore-bearing vehicles and saw a line of bedraggled workers headed for the arid entrance to a mine. "Up the stairs, malingerer," the IF next unit said. She climbed flight after flight of cruelly steep rough stone steps. A panel on a landing gave her a view of a Ra graveyard: bones and clothing and shells and assorted other durable elements of assorted creatures. There was no attempt at burial. "Third chamber down, weakUng." She found the place and touched the door signal. "Enter," a translator said from within. She was tempted to point out that it had forgotten the usual expletive. She edged the bleak metal door open. The chamber was empty. She heard water running and saw fog near the ceiling. Someone was having a shower. "I'll be right out," the pleasantly modulated voice said. It sounded real -- as though spoken in English rather than translated. Unlikly, of course; she had encountered no one from Earth since answering that fateful ad. The water noise stopped. Trach whistled cheerilyas he dried himself in the other room. In a moment she heard his feet on the floor as he dressed. He sounded heavy. "You're Miss Galland of Earth," he called. "The muck-amuck of deep notified me." "Yor'e not using a translator?" "I never bother," he admitted, still out of sight. "Now where's my jacket? Can't entertain a lady undressed -- " "I'm afraid not. He left Electrons for the University. He's undertaking administrative training now. I'm sorry to inform you that you made your trip here for nothing." His solid footsteps approached. "Oh, no. I'm glad he's not here. I mean -- " Then she saw Trach. A literal dinosaur. "My dear, you look good enough to eat," he said smiling. He had two thousand teeth. She was not the fainting type. She fainted. # ## W there is the problem of lyour contract," Trach said, "deep transferred it to Ra, so -- " She was almost convinced that Trach was not the monster he appeared. He had not, after all, eaten her when he had the opportunity and certainly he was the essence of politeness. He claimed to be a vegetarian reptile and if he were not fattening her up for a latter kill... "Does that mean it wasn't a mistake? The trolls -- my being on the -- " "They don't make mistakes of that nature," he said reassuringly. "You are on their list." "To die in the radium mines?" Maybe it would be preferable to be eaten by a dinosaur. "How could the muck-a-muck do such a terrible thing? I thought he was helping me." "Merely good business practice. Nothing personal. He wouldn't be muck-a-muck if he wasted Gleep's credit status. Fifty pounds of frumpstiggle -- " "He told me a hundred." she said indignantly. "That was to improve your selfimage. It was his impression that you were overly dependent on Dr. in your own dental abilities." "But I'm not a dentist! I can't do prosthodontic -- " "Pretty sharp judge of character, that muck-a-muck. You do lack confidence." "Oh, shut up!" "At any rate, he did help you. He notified me, knowing that I would arrange something. That's my business, after all -- arranging things for mutual profit and my own. Unfortunately -- " "You don't have fifty pounds of frumpstiggle?" "As a matter of fact, I have considerably more, thanks to a generous settlement on Dr. Dillingham. But -- " "But -- " "But the trolls of Ra are very fussy about allowing any entity to depart. Once there's a contract -- "They won't let go," she finished grimly. "Not readily. Others in the galaxy have some very ugly suspicions about Ra. If too many prospective miners were to be released those suspicions would be amply confirmed. Then it would be almost impossible for Ra to buy up contracts at any price whatever." "So I have to take up pick and shovel?" "Oh, no. They are very efficient here. You would work in your speciality, caring for the miners' teeth. Better dentures allow them to consume cruder staples and that is more economical, you see." "I see. I don't approve the motive, though." "Appreciation of Ra motives is an acquired taste. In certain respects, there is more need for medical and dental assistants here than only short-term measures are economical. The radiation, you know. And you would still be exposed to that." She nodded. Had she really thought her prospects back on Earth were bad? "I have not relinquished the problem. Miss Galland. I merely wish you to comprehend its magnitude. Naturally we'll find a way to remove you from Ra." "I comprehend the magnitude. What do I have to do to escape?" "You have to obtain a sponsor who is able to influence the troll hierarchy. I can arrange temporary reprieve but my influence is limited. I'm only a diplomat. If I push my luck -- " "The mines for you, too," she said. "Will you teach the prisoners IF diplomacy as they perish from radiation?" "I doubt if would come to that but there could be awkwardness. However, I'll see what I can arrange. I have had experience at a number of influential courts." Judy smiled appreciatively but she had little hope. est about his resources. Within six hours there was an urgent call from the Monarch of Lepidop: he wanted an experienced dental assistant and he wanted this particular one. Since his subjects were resistive to radium poisoning, a task force of his navy traditionally transported Ra's annual output of ten pounds pure to the galactic markets. He had, in short, influence. The troll hierarchy swallowed its gall and hastily made a gift of Judy's contract to the Monarch, compliments of the honorable reputation of Ra. To make it quite clear where she had come from, they decided to brand her first. Of never to reveal what she had seen planetside even this small formality might be dispensed with... Judy contemplated the sizzling branding iron, thought about the difficulty she would have sitting down thereafter and she saw her courage go up in steam. She agreed not to talk. The troll released her hair and she fell to the floor. Trach took her to Lepidop himself. This was a favor she appreciated less than she might have, for his ship was a frightening rattletrap. But she suspected that this was Trach's way of saving his own reptilian hide, for the trolls of Ra surely were aware of his part in Lepidop's demand and would not delay unduly in attempting to settle scores. Lepidop, in contrast to Ra, was truly beautiful. Iridescent films decorated its esthetic continents and rainbows were reflected from its shining oceans. The ship jolted to rest on a platform mounted on a spire about two miles above the surface. Judy was afraid the weight of the ship would collapse the insubstantial edifice but there was no sag or tremor. She disembarked. "Butterflies," Judy exclaimed. "What marvelous wings!" "This is Lepidop," Trach reminded her gently. "Capital world of the declining Lepidopteran Empire. But you are right to compliment their wings; Leps are subject to flattery. Now the honor guard will insist on conveying you personally to the Monarch and I don't see how you can refuse." "An honor guard? I'm the one who's flattered. And I want to thank the Monarch effusively for saving me from Ra. Why should I refuse?" "Well, their mode of transportation is not too every creature's taste. I would prefer to walk, myself. But since I am not permitt within the palace environs I shall merely relay my compliments and depart for my next mission." "You're going?" Her original distrust of him was as though it had never been; Trach was as nice a dinosaur as she had ever met. "I thought -- " "Some of the finer architectural structures are delicate and I'm rather solid," he explained. An understatement; she judged he weighed several tons. "But the Monarch is basically a kindly fellow; don't let his gruffness fool you. And beware of palace intrigues. I'm sure he'll treat you well, provided -- " ham?" "I will notify the University. They'll advise him in due course. You just stay put and wait for word. It may take a while." She had other questions, suddenly pressing now that Trach was about to leave her -- but the mansized butterflies were upon them, a fluttering phalanx. "Provided what?" she whispered. "Miss Earthbiped?" a translator inquired. She didn't see the instrument, but hardly needed to. There was always a translator within earshot on civilized planets, except for places like deep, where such machinery was inconvenient, and Enen, where they couldn't afford the expense. She automatically associated the translation with the speaker, as she had once associated subtitles with foreign speech in Earth movies. "This is Miss Galland of Earth," Trach said formally. She had to pick up the introduction through the translator, for he was speaking directly in Lepidopteran. He was a phenominal linguist. "Summoned by the Monarch for dental assistancy and hygienicy." And privately to her: "Provided he lives." "This way, honored guest," the lead butterfly said, spreading his huge yellow wings as he turned. Judy followed him to an ornate and fragile little cage, the other butterflies falling in around her and matching her step. "Enter the royal carriage." She hesitated, the Ra experience fresh in her memory. This thing had neither wheels nor runners and white bars encircled it. It reminded her of a lobster trap. But Trach gave her a thumbs-up signal from the far side of the platform and she had to trust him again. She opened the latticed gate and climbed in. The fit was tight, vertically, and there was no proper seat; evidently this had been designed for a reclining butterfly. A narrow section of the top was peaked: space for folded wings to project. The yellow butterfly closed the gate with one of his six small legs. IF She arranged herself half-supine, propped against one elbow so she could wave to Trach. Then the others circled the cage, picked up threads hanging from its sides and beat their white wings in unison, while the yellow called the cadence. "Hup -- two -- three -- four -- " Judy heard, not certain whether there was a translator, or at least a little transcoder, in the cage, or whether her own mind was doing it. "Hup -- Hup -- " Suddenly they were aloft: butterflies, cage and Judy -- she clinging desperately to the bars. No wonder Trach had been nervous about the transportation. But it was too late to protest now. They flew over the edge of the platform and she closed her eyes against vertigo. Two miles in the air -- with only butterfly wings and slender threads to support her! Did the Monarch often travel this way? Was that what Trach had meant by his hast warning: the Monarch would treat her well, provided he lived? Let one thread be snagged, one wing falter... But the cadence was steady and soon she was reassured that they were not about to drop her. She watched the aerial life of Lepidop: brown-winged butterflies, gray ones, green ones and blue, gliding their myriad ways. A number carried bags in two or three hands, as though they had been shopping. Others clustered and whirled in dazzlingly swift mid-air games. Yet Trach had said the Lepidopteran Empire was declining. T he palace was a tremendous silken nest, massed strands forming gleaming geometric patterns that glowed prismatically in the slanting sunlight. At every nexus a pastelle-winged butterfly perched, gently fanning the air. The cage came to rest in a cushiony chamber and the bearers let go the threads. Judy disembarked cautiously and found the seemingly tenuous webbing quite strong. It gave a little under her feet, adding bounce to her step, and was in fact rather fun to walk on. Trach would have put a foot through, however. The yellow butterfly led the way to the throneroom. This was a splendid chamber whose lofty arches reached into a nebulous webflung dome and whose furniture was all of stressed silk. Upon the mighty yet delicate throne reclined the ruler of the planet and empire. The Monarch was old. His torso was stiff and scaly, his antennae drooped and his wings were dead white cardboard. Had he been human, she would have assessed his age at an infirm eighty. She knew immediately that he had no teeth. Why, then, had he wanted a dental assistant? Had his demand been made purely as a favor to Trach or was there more to it? "My dear, come here," the Monarch whispered and the translator conveyed jointly benign and imperative tonality. She stepped up to him, impressed by his bearing despite his antiquity. It was no longer a mystery why Trach had been concerned for the Monarch's life. It was as though the very act of speaking might terminate his span. "You care for teeth?" "Yes, Your Majesty," she replied, deciding not to quibble again over descriptions. She was no dentist but she did take care of teeth. "You have experience with -- " here he paused to regain his shallow breath -- "Lepidop mandibulars?" "On my world, butterflies don't have teeth." "Interesting. On Lepidop (another breath) primates don't have teeth." He laughed -- a painful rattle, even in translation. "But I suppose you (breath) don't have genuine lepids, any (breath) more than we have real primates, (breath, breath) It is merely a convenience of expression." Judy was happy to agree. This royal butterfly had no connection to any Earthly creature, just as Judy Galland had no connection to any galactic biped. The Monarch was not stupid but he was rapidly weakening from the effort of conversation. Gruffness was hardly the problem; a fatal oversociability might be. "Dismissed," the Monarch snapped. Two small purple Leps hurried her out of the chamber. "He's obnoxious when balked," one confided to her. "But he'll die soon, fortunately," the other said. The words irritated her unreasonably. "Now, stop that. I think he's very nice and I won't have you saying such things behind his back." The butterflies tittered and she realized that she had choSen a poor figure of speech. There was no "behind" for a butterfly's back; there was only "above." She had made a fool of herself to no purpose. Their remarks might even have been well intentioned -- and were probably true. Well, Trach had told her to beware of palace intrigues. She had probably already put her foot in it by speaking out thoughtlessly. They showed her to a private chamber without further comment and left her. There was a galactic all-purpose unit that took care of all conceivable and some inconceivable physical needs and she had learned how to squeeze entertainment from a standard translator. "Sing me a ballad," she directed it. And it did. T he Monarch summoned her to another audience next day. IF He was considerably more affable and she suspected that the court minions had dutifully relayed her remarks to him. She had spoken automatically but she had defended the Monarch. Had she been negatively impressed she might have said something entirely different, with no more thought. Little accidents like that could make all the difference, as she knew from her experience with patients on Earth. That was one reason dental assistants were usually personable and cautious about giving opinions. Usually. Now she almost felt guilty for speaking out, as though she had deliberately played politics. Maybe subconsciously she had. But still the Monarch had no teeth. She felt enxbarrassed, holding her little case of instruments. What politics was he playing? "My dear, I like your (breath) spirit. Most visitors praise me lavishly (breath) to my antennae but sneer (breath) behind their wings. How would (breath) you like to visit my past?" "Your Majesty, I don't understand." "I am forty-two years old," he said. The translator had rendered the time span into her terms, just as the all-purpose unit had created light and darkness to match her Earthly pattern of day and night. But it was a surprise. The Monarch was just about the Lepids have lesser lifespans (breath) than some of you landbound forms. But then we (breath) have greater abilities. So life is fair." She had little basis to object, yet the Monarch's abilities were obviously long past. "I don't know how to -- to visit your past. I'm sorry." "Of course you don't, my (breath) dear. I shall take you. Ten years; I (breath) have strength enough for that." Whatever it was, if it required strength it was best discouraged. He could afford no superfluous expenditure of energy. "I don't see what this has to do with dental hygiene. Your Majesty. Why take me?" "Give me your hand," the Monarch said. "Oh, you have only (breath) two. Awkward, but I suppose you're used to it." "Yes." Hesitantly she held out one of her few hands, and he took it with one of his stick-thin members. His grasp was so feeble that she was afraid to close her fingers; even her lightest grip might crush his chitinous appendage. He shuddered. Something like a mild shock went up her arm. Then there was a strange shimmer. A wave of dizziness passed over her. "Ten years," the Monarch said with pride. "My subjects can manage no more than five even in their primes." She disengaged her hand and looked at him, wondering whether he could be senile. A decade could not be wished away. His wings were orange. His body was full. His antennae were erect. He looked twenty years younger. Judy felt strange. Her clothing did not fit comfortably. Her blouse was loose, her skirt tight, her shoes wrong. She felt gangling and her face itched. What was wrong? "And now I have my teeth again," he said, smiling. And he did. "Of course they are not in good condition and in five more years I lost them entirely. But with your care and advice I may be able to preserve them longer." This seemed to answer an important question, but she hardly heard him. "I'm younger too," she exclaimed. "Naturally. So is the palace, the planet, the galaxy. This is my past." "Time travel? That's impossible!" "Impossible for you, certainly. And for most species. That is why I was able to extend my empire so readily, though it is drifting away now that my powers have declined." "But what about paradox? I mean -- " "There is no conflict. We are ten years younger, and the universe is ten years younger, but we are not of it, precisely. The full explanation would be too technical for your comprehension. We merely experience, we do not affect, except for our own bodies." Judy shook her head. "How could you conquer an empire if you couldn't use your talent to affect it?" "Simple. I travel to a foreign planet. Then I visit its past and make notes. Then I comprehend its vulnerability and in the present I exploit it. No enemy strategy is a surprise to me, nor can it ever be, unless it dates from beyoild my own lifetime." "Your Majesty, it still doesn't make sense. I see you younger and I seem to be about sixteen myself. But when I was really sixteen I was a high-school girl on Earth, ruining my teeth with cola. So this can't be -- " "It is my past, my dear, not yours. You became younger merely to stay in phase with me. I would take you to Earth and show you that high school of yours -- but my migrating years are over and no ship will respond to our touch now. You may look at Lepidop instead." "Don't tell me you migrated between planets without ships!" "'Dont tell you? Very well, you shall remain ignorant of that talent." The Monarch preceded her to a silken parapet walling off a bulging room, so that they actually stood outside the body of IF the castle. Beyond it the colorful butterflies danced in the early dusk, whirling in columns of turbulence. "See, the chrono gives the date,' he said, gesturing toward a huge clock-tower about a mile distant. "Just over ten years ago. She saw the clock but did not know how to read its symbols. She was coming to believe that they had traveled back; nothing else explained the phenomena. She was younger; she could not be deceived about a thing like that. The Monarch now had plenty of breath and physical vigor -- and he did have remarkable powers. A yellow messenger lighted on the parapet. Judy stepped back but the insect took no note of her or the Monarch. The yellow mouth parts were moving but she heard no translation. Naturally not, she realized when she considered it: the machines could not have been programed for English ten years before she came. The" would be inoperative for her -- and, of course, unnecessary for the natives. Then how, she wondered sharply, was she able to hear and comprehend the Monarch's present speech? "My dear," he remarked, "your thought processes are so delightfully open. The phase applies to the translators too, but only for you and me; we can not communicate with the creatures of this time, or indeed make ourselves known to them in any way. I heard no more than you did, just then." "Oh," she said, more perplexed than ever. A thick-bodied, furry-antennaed drab moth arrived on foot. It gazed out over the parapet a moment as though envious of the aerial ceremonies beyond, then lowered its head to the wall. A tremendous tongue uncurled and brushed the tight strands that formed the parapet and all the castlepalace. She saw with shock that its wings had been partially clipped, so that it could not fly. "The menials come out at night," the Monarch murmured distastefully. "We don't associate with them, of course, but we recognize that they do have to clean the grounds sometime." "The moths? They do the work?" "That is the natural order, since they are basically inferior. We merely relieve them of the onus of making decisions. No doubt they are happier than we are." The moth hardly looked happy. It seemed resigned, feeling no frustration apart from that one glance outside, because it had no hope. Judy started to voice a protest at this callousness of the Monarch but he spoke first: "We'll return to the throne room. You shall instruct me on caring for my teeth." That was right -- the Monarch had teeth now! This was one thing she was qualiHed to do. "'Suppose I clean your teeth while I explain about the procedures?" "Excellent." He settled on the throne and opened his mouth. H IS teeth were surprisingly similar to those of a human being: twenty-four of them, divided into incisors and molars, sixteen and eight respectively. No cuspids. Normal occlusion. That, as galactic dentition went, was practically identical to her own set. She brought out her instruments, set up the sterilizer and tied a protective cloth about his furry neck. This was awkward, because his head was not attached in a familiar manner, but she had learned not to let such details interfere. She lifted a scaler and began to check. "Your teeth are not in the best condition. I'm afraid," she said. "There's a good deal of erosion and the gums -- " "Ouch!" "Are a trifle tender. You need the attention of a dentist." "Allow a moth to touch my royal teeth?" he demanded incredulously. "Don't you have any butterfly dentists?" "Certainly not. No butterfly would soil his dignity by learning a trade." "Trade? Dentistry is a profession." "Kingship is a profession, my dear. I would have any subject who fell so low as to practice a manual art put under the lights." "The lights?" "Executed, to employ a euphemism. You would not care to know the details, my charming alien hygienist." Then he fathomed her thought. "No, there is no such restriction on aliens; we understand that the ways of the galaxy differ from ours peculiarly. No stigma attaches to you. You are not at fault for having been hatched on a barbarian world." That did not allay her whole concern but she let it pass. Judy was beginning to appreciate the full extent of the problem. No wonder the Monarch had lost all his teeth. "Well, I can show you how to extend the life of your teeth but it's already pretty late. Too much damage has already been done." "Ten years is not far enough back?" "I'm sorry. Your Majesty, it isn't." "Explain anyway." She continued to work, cleaning away the immediate residues of what appeared to be years of neglect. "Oral prophylaxis is much more than just cleaning the teeth. The whole mouth, the entire habitat has to be considered. The food of primitive species tends to be hard, tough and gritty, and it cleans the teeth naturally. IF But civilized foods tend to be soft and sticky and many essential nutrients are refined out. And sugar -- well, it's best to stay away from it, if you value your teeth." "But I love sweet foods." "Your teeth have already informed me of that. If you insist on eating sweets, at least keep your teeth clean at all times. A truly clean tooth cannot decay. And it is important to disturb the natural bacteria in your mouth regularly, for some of these attack the enamel of your teeth. You can't eliminate all bacteria but you can rout them out and keep them uncomfortable, so that they never have a chance to multiply and mass against your teeth." "You are beginning to make sense," the Monarch said. "But how do I keep them clean?" "You brush them, for one thing." She brought out a toothbrush, one of the few remaining from her original supply. "I'm sure you have better instruments and better systems at Lepidop, but the trinciple is constant: get them clean. Now I'll demonstrate the best way to clean off the surfaces. Then you can do it yourself after every meal." "But -- " It was her turn to divine his thought. "This can't be considered manual labor. It's hygiene. Only the most finicky and enlightened persons practice it. Clean teeth are a mark of, er, nobility." "Naturally," he replied, having known it all the time. "But brushing isn't enough." She brought out a spool of dental tape. "This is more difficult but more important. You have to pass the tape between your teeth, like this -- " "Ouchl" "Now that didn't hurt. Your Majesty. You just expected it to. You pass it between your teeth and pull it back and forth a little and it polishes the surfaces the brush can't reach. Darn these inexperienced adolescent fingers of mine! There. And right there, in the crevices between the teeth, is where food is most likely to collect and where the undisturbed bacteria will feed and multiply in their own contented microcosm. You no more want to ignore these places than you want to ignore an assassin in your palace. Bacteria are assassins of your teeth." "Suddenly I understand you very well. Give me that tape." His digits were much stronger than they had been when he was old. Before long he became proficient in both brushing and taping. "Now," he said, "I begin to weary. Take my hand." She took it, thinking he needed help, but as the vertigo passed over her she realized that they were jumping forward again in time. She was twenty-six again, her clothing fitting snugly, and he was back at forty-twoeight-odd. His wings were bleached, his antennae sagged. "But look," he gasped before she left. "Teeth!" He was right. They were so delapidated as to be almost useless but they were there and they seemed clean. "You took care of them!" she cried, delighted. "For ten (breath) long years." He flopped on the throne, exhausted. "Dismissed." Monarch summoned her again. "It is very tiring, revisiting the past," he explained. "And tedious, following your instructions. But it saved my teeth for five years longer than they lasted before. You gave good advice." "I tried to," she said but the whole business amazed her. How could they really have traveled back in time? But if they hadn't, how had the Monarch recovered his teeth? They were not good teeth but they were genuine. "Ten years were not enough to grant me perfect dentures," he said. "Would twenty years do it?" Twenty years were equivalent to forty in his life, she remembered. He would be half his present age -- hardly past his prime. "It might." "Take my hand." She obeyed while protesting. "But Your Majesty. The strain -- " The dizziness overcame her. It was worse than before. When she regained equilibrium things had changed drastically. The Monarch was tremendous -- twice his original size -- and the throne had expanded to match. His wings veined, bordered on the fringes with a double row of white spots set in black. His torso was full and strong. His antennae were long and firm. He was a splendid insect. And his teeth, as he smiled, were fine and even. He had done it: he had taken them back to the time before dietary dissipation and dental neglect had damaged his teeth irreparably. But Judy was in trouble. She looked at herself. Her clothing hung upon her in gross festoons, her shoes were like boxes and her dental case was impossibly heavy. She had lost two decades. Physically, she was six years old. "Come fly with me, my dear," the Monarch said. "This is my time of power." "But I'm not dressed -- " "Neither am I. Does it matter?" What use to debate with a butterfly about clothing? Her blouse was now as big on her as a dress and far less neatly shaped. She belted it around her middle with a strand of dental tape and discarded much of the rest of her apparel. They went to the parapet, its outer bulge now swollen into a IF large balcony. "But you said equipment wouldn't work for you here," she protested, remembering what he had said ten years later (three or four days ago, subjective time). "How can you fly?" "You jest, my dear," he said benignly and hooked four hands into the back of her blouse-dress. She screeched as the dental tape snapped and she hd to scramble to avoid complete dishabille. The Monarch flexed his handsome wings. Air blasted down and then they were aloft. By the time she had managed to knot her outfit securely about her the palace had fallen away and the ground was already awesomely far below. Now she was glad she weighed so little. Her blouse was good nylon, but... "Material power," the Monarch said as they flew. "It has been claimed by sages on my world and perhaps even on yours that this can not bring happiness but assuredly it can. At this moment in the span of my reign I control seventy systems, each with one or more habitable planets, and I hold a virtual monopoly on the distribution of Ra radium throughout the galaxy. I have phenomenal wealth and even the lowliest of my subjects live in ease. Look there!" She peered as he swooped low. She saw a silver city with minarets and flying buttresses, each structure bedecked with scores of bright green butterflies. It was as beautiful a municipality as she had ever seen. "Is this your capital?" she asked. He laughed resoundingly. "This is Luna -- the slum-city of Lepidop. Every occupant is a moth. See the ugly spots on those wings." The spots were not ugly to her. "Luna moths," she murmured. "And look there." It was a forest, but like none she had known on Earth. Each huge tree was barrel-shaped, its foliage on the outside, its fruit hanging inside. She learned that when the fruit became ripe it dropped so that more could be grown on the same stem. There was preservative gas within the hollow center, so that the tree gradually filled with its own fresh fruit, a natural storehouse. Enough was stockpiled in this one forest to feed several cities for months. "And there." Now they came upon an ocean of water-color-paint water. Geysers plumed from its sparkling depths into the sky, forming ambient vapor-scapes of every lovely hue. Swallow-tails spun within these falling mists, spraying rainbows from their wings. "This is my empire," the Monarch said. "This is power, this is beauty, this is joy." And Judy had to agree. They returned to the palace. "Why don't you build a dental clinic in this time' she inquired, "so that no citizen needs to have lived without proper care? The best food is wasted if your teeth are poor and no one can be happy when he has a toothache." "What I do now can affect only myself," he reminded her. "And you, to a lesser extent. But in our normal time I shall build a clinic for the future." She checked his teeth. "There is some damage, but Fm sure that proper care will preserve these for the rest of your life," she said. "Brush them after every meal and brush the rest of your mouth, too, to disturb the bacteria. Use the dental tape. Don't eat any more processed carbohydrates than you really have to. And have your mouth checked every six months." "But who will do the checking?" That moth problem again. And of course the Monarch could not summon any offworld dentist to work on his teeth in this flashback status. "I suppose you'll just have to do the best you can by yourself. That isn't ideal but it will certainly help." Then she cleaned his teeth carefully, though her tiny six-year-old hands were clumsy at so specialized a task. She reviewed him on the techniques of dental prophylaxis until she was satisfied that he knew exactly what to do. Finally they returned to the present. There was some awkwardness about her tangled clothing that amused the Monarch, but he was too fatigued to laugh long. He collapsed almost immediately, frightening her. Twenty years seemed to have been a terriffic strain on his system. The Monarch was old again but he did seem to be in better health than before, as though his new attention to diet had helped more than his teeth. And his teeth yere improved; he was still able to chew most foods without discomfort. If human beings had the ability to impart their knowledge to their younger selves, as the Monarch had done, they might all have superior teeth, she thought wistfully. M onths passed. Judy was well treated at the palace, and from time to time (figuratively) the Monarch summoned her for conversation. He was inordinately proud of his preserved teeth and gave her full credit for the advice that had in effect restored them. But her service to him had ended; she could leave Lepidop at any time she found somewhere better to go. Yet there was a certain lingering dissatisfaction. Mis teeth were not perfect, and she knew that he concealed occasional pains, not wanting to admit this flaw in the gift. It would have been so much better for him to have had the regular supervision of a dentist (even a moth dentist!), for the patient simply IF could not do everything for himself. She was increasingly nervous, too, because she had not heard from the University. Trach was long gone and she had no idea of how to reach him. She might have placed an interplanetary call, but this wasisxpensive and she did not have a planet to name. He could be anywhere in the galaxy. the dinosaur notified those authorities of her whereabouts? Had they in turn notified Dr. Dillingham? Had he been interested enough to put in a requisition for her, or whatever it was at this level? She had supposed that Dr. Dillingham had been satisfied with her performance and might like to have her as his assistant again. But as a University administrator he would rate the best and she could not delude herself about her status there. She was used to his mannerisms and individual techniques and that was all. She made use of the comprehensive Lepidop library of dental information, studying the configurations of the dentures of a thousand alien species. She visited the lowly moth dentists and found them a good deal more knowledgeable than the opinion of the butterflies suggested. She asked the translator about the University -- its procedures and hierarchy. She waited. Nothing. Either the message had was not interested. She was helpless. "I have had a taste of better health," the Monarch said, shaking his faintly orange wings. "It incites me to desire more. If twenty years did this, what might thirty do?" That would be equivalent to sixty, by her scale. He would be in effect twenty -- at the very prime of life. Of course, nothing short of a complete overhaul from the moment of conception on would provide him with absolutely perfect teeth but -- "If I begin caring for my teeth in the flush of my youth, at the time I first emerged from the chrysalis, they will remain strong forever!" he cried. She kept forgetting that the butterfly life-cycle differed from her own. Perhaps that was time enough. "Come, my dear -- take my hand." She tried to stop herself but his word compelled her just as though she were a butterfly subject. "Wait!" she cried, suddenly realizing what thirty years would mean to her. "I can't go back to -- " And the vertigo overcame her. It was much worse than before. She felt as though she were being turned inside out through the mouth and dipped in lye. She felt, she fought, she expired, she emerged into... Nightmare. The choking, crying, bleeding miasma of extinction. Her arms were bound in mummy wrappings, her eyeballs were rotten. She screamed with the soundlessness of an anguished ghost. Maggots were feeding on her tongue, flames on her wings. She had tried to go back to four years before she had been born. B ut it was not her own demise she experienced. The Monarch was dead. His ancient husk of a body dangled from her hand when she stood and, when she tried to let go, his desiccated hand fell apart. "Murderous alien!" the court butterflies cried, discovering her in her guilt. "You made the Monarch attempt the impossible. You crucified him on your short lifespan and now the Empire will fall!" Judy found no way to protest. She had led him on to it, however unwittingly. "You shall die the death of a thousand lights," they screamed. "Moths shall spit on your remains!" They put her with all her possessions in a cocoon tower near the apex of the castle. She could see beyond the strands to overlook the lovely countryside, but she could not break them or force them apart in order to escape. They were like invisibly barbed wire. In any event, it was a long, long fall to the moat and sharklike beetle larvae cruised that dreary channel. Butterflies swooped from the sky, their wings translucent in the sun. Each carried a beamer pointed toward Judy's prison. Some of these rods were silver, some black, some green -- all the hues of Lepidop. The insects zoomed at her in single file and from each weapon a narrow light speared into her cage. At first she flung herself aside, trying to avoid the profusion of beams, but she could not escape them all. Then she discovered that they did not hurt her. They were merely lights that illuminated her prison momentarily and faded harmlessly. Pain blossomed in her leg. One of those lights was a laser! An hour and several scorches later she figured it out. At irregular intervals a butterfly would approach carrying an orange rod -- the color matching the wings of the dead Monarch. This was the laser -- the beam she had to avoid. But it was nervous work. She had to watch every butterfly and there were always several in sight. The beamers were not easy to see until almost within effective range, so she had only a moment to spot the orange one and dodge its pencil-thin sword of heat. The bars of the cage inhibited her view also at critical moments. The beams were somehow set to have effect only in her vicinity; they passed IF through the cage strands harmlessly, and dissipated beyond the cocoon. She was the only target; when her attention lapsed, she got stung. So far the wounds had been painful but not critical. Eventually a laser would strike an eye or some other vital spot, she knew. The death of a thousand lights. She understood it now. A hundred thousand threats, one thousand actual attacks. One or two strikes she could forget; ten or twenty she could suffer through; one or two hundred she could survive with proper medical attention. But a thousand would surely finish her. Those she managed to avoid still took their toll, for she could not relax at any time while watching for them and sleep would be impossible. Sometimes one laser followed another consecutively. Sometimes half an hour passed ltween shots, though the innocent-light butterflies swooped past steadily at intervals of five to ten seconds. The average laser came around fifteen minutes. That would be four an hour, she calculated feverishly, or almost a hundred in a twenty-four hour span. It would take ten days for the torture to expend itself. Far longer than she could remain alert. Eventually she would sink into unconsciousness, from fatigue if not from wounds. The death of a thousand lights. Her eyes ached. The constantly oncoming butterflies blurred. They no longer seemed beautiful; they were wings of horror. Always one passing; close, its light aiming, stabbing. Always one a few seconds behind, its beamer lost in the distance. And others, trailing back into the sky -- an ominous parade of beating wings. She cried out. She had nodded off without realizing it, hypnotized by the steadily cruising, flexing wings. A laser had scored, singeing a strand of her hair and scorching one shoulder. It was as though a white-hot poker had been jammed against her, destroying flesh and bone to a depth of a quarter inch and cauterizing its own wound. Night came but no relief. Now the moths were marshaled to the task, their rods softly glowing in the same array of colors. This was no favor to her, she knew. She had to be given a chance to spot the orange ones. Otherwise her vigil would be useless, and she simply would have to lie down and let the LauiMT  Macfarlant  Jmkms  Kopmz  Barrttt# Jr. beams come. That would remove half the torture and shorten its duration. She nodded off again and was struck again -- but this time she had been fortunate enough to pick up almost thirty minutes of sleep. That enabled her to remain alert for several more hours. Then the blurring resumed and she had a tightening headache and knew that the dismal end was coming. She would fight it but her point of no hope was incipient. All she had wanted to do was to rejoin of it all was his failure to respond. He would have responded, she was sure now, had he been told. Maybe the University had buried her message as crackpot. She chided herself for feeling sorry for herself, then reacted angrily: now was the best of all times to feel sorry for herself! A larger light showed in the distance. She thought it was the rising Lepidop sun but it seemed to be star-shaped. And not natural. Soon she unblurred enough to make out the glint of metal. A machine of some sort. Erom it a searchlight-sized beam emerged, sweeping across the planet. Was this the final laser? She screamed involuntarily as the huge light found her and bathed her blindingly but she did not burn. The machine came down its headlight as though it were an Earthly locomotive. She could make out no detail of its shape. Her cage exploded. She felt herself falling, still blinded. She heard the chitter of untranslated moth protests. Something hard caught her arm and hauled her up roughly"None but I shall do him die!" a metal voice boomed. Now she knew she was hallucinating, for translators could not fly. "And you will join him there." "I know that!" she snapped hysterically. "At least give me some butter for these little burns -- " And that was strange, for she was not the hysterical type. She wondered when the end would come.  AccardHig to Piort Antlioiiy tho fOrogoiiig is tlio finai stoi Honeo tlio soinowliat onigmotic ondlng, wMch abruptly winds up IMnps -- or doos it? Cortoinly it prosonts a challonoo to a roadar unfamiliar arith proviha VO appoarod In IF. And it is an onMng, If wo aro not mlv taken, that laavos a haok for ronowal of tho soriosrshould its osHmaMo author so will n. Wa hopohadaas. IF Like men, Jeeiiens hurt e Httie eiithe time -- but they bed found e wey out! T he roof fell in as Tryss and I came back with the latest flora samples. I imagine it looked pretty ridiculous -- from a safe distance. Just as we went past the posts they both splayed out as if they'd been cued and the flimsy overheads started showering broken adobe and wooden shingles on us. (Actually, it was the porch roof that fell in. I should specific. Shan is always telling me: Say what you mean.) Tryss, at least, thought it was funny. We weren't hurt and he sat there in the wreckage -- dust billowing up around him and giving him the look of a bald fox-faced monkey being cooked alive -- squealing in what passes for laughter among the Jeeli. After I ascertained none of the sample packages had burst when we'd dropped them I even joined in with a bit of weakly nervous chuckling of my own. After thirty-seven days on the planet and nothing to show for it the whole lab might as well cave in, not just the porch. Shan came out to see what the noise was about. "You hurt?" he asked, holding out a hand. When I shook my head he put his hand back onto his hip. Still squealing, Tryss was on his feet now, bending over to pick up the scattered samples. We all pawed through the rubble, sorted out the packages and lugged them to the lab, trailing chunks of broken adobe, occasional splinters and Brownian tail of fine dust. Messy. "Josy, can't you do anything without creating an uproar?" Carteret complained. I was tempted to be scathing but thought better of it. In another year Carteret was going to be a lot more than Shan's cochief and it wouldn't do to irritate a future superior. Then, too, I suspected he was on the cleanup squad that day and was taking the mess of mud and splinters personally. "Just consider it the noise associated with inspired research." Shan elbowed some notes out of the way and he, Tryss and I eased our armloads of samples onto the countertop. "It was just the porch collapsing, anyway. The Jeeli never build anything to last." "Good thing we built the lab," Shan remarked. He was using part of that vastly compartmented brain of his to pass the samples out for testing. The recipients wandered off reading labels and bumping into tables absentmindedly. The room was suddenly full of the silent sound of mental gears meshing. I felt conspicuously unemployed since I'd finished my perception test run two days ago. "Incidentally," Shan said, "D'Vrainy call while you and Tryss were gone." "Uh-oh?" Tryss said, waggling his pale red eyebrows. The first Federation Basic that e.t. kids pick up are those little nonsense-syllaIF bles-pregnant-with-meaning our language abounds in. They do all the proper eye-bugging, mouthpursing, tongue-clicking or whatever else is necessary dramatically to underline each phrase and they seem to know what each means, too. That's what makes it so easy to teach them modern ways, even when the adult populations are resistant. "Uh-oh, is right," Shan agreed with a sigh. "He should be here any minute." "Does he believe leaning over our shoulders is going to produce results any faster?" "That's your department, psychologist." Shan was studying the contents of one of the few remaining sample packages. "They get this out of a local cannabis field? Wow!" "It's labeled." I checked the comp tape the crew had run while Tryss and I had been collecting samples from the skimmer pilot. With my psych work temporarily stalled I figured I'd better shift to my second suit: pattern spotting. Out of the corner of my eye I saw Carteret stare at me a minute, then turn away. Efficiency check? Division loved his reports and his drive to succeed. They always liked success and the pressure was definitely on here; we all felt it, especially D'Vrainy and his men. They had been most cooperative in collecting weird flora, fauna and mineral samples from all over the planet. They had curtailed their work at the processor and run oddball errands for us so we could plow all our time into research. It was embarrassing. The base -- it hardly deserved the title "Colony" yet -- was so new the serial tags hadn't peeled off the equipment. And here they were out snatching ecological snippets for our team. But we hadn't given them a prize so far and the latest tape was no exception. If we could only get the Jeeli on their feet, get them operating at any kind of normal level... "There is a deadline, you know," Carteret was telling some of his techs acidly. F rom outside came a wiffling sound that signaled the imminent landing of a skimmer. No need to ask whose, after Shan's remark. I found myself clutching the comp tape and trying to look earnest and busy. The noise of the skimmer dulled and a number of voices became louder and louder as their owners walked toward the lab. Somebody kicked some boards in the ruins of the porch and somebody else remarked on the scene with inspired profanity. Then: "Just get over there and tell him I want thirty kilos extracted by tomorrow. And I am not interested in excuses." There was a trompling of fading footsteps as people apparently hurried to obey that familiar voice. Then the colony director stepped inside the lab, looking satisfied but not pleased. "I'm not interested in excuses from you, either. And what the hell happened out front?" "We didn't intend to give any and the porch caved in," Shan said mildly. "I presume the Jeeli will put up another one of these days, with the kids' obsession about putting porches on everything." "Admittedly, it's one of their few self-initiated projects." D'Vrainy had his hands behind him under his favorite feathered cloak. Thrown over someone his size, it produced the effect of an immense brooding predatory bird and when he walked toward you with that curiously light step of his you hoped he wasn't hungry. On anyone else such a cloak combing with fatigues would have been ludicrous. On him it wasn't. "Just what are you giving me?" "We're working," Shan said. I'd watched him move around directors before but this time I sensed he was nervous. And all the staff seemed to be trying to outdo one another in creating an aura of purposeful effort. I felt naked standing there. "A lot of taped analyses I haven't the time or training to digest and a great many due bills for esoteric equipment," D'Vrainy grumbled. His voice took on a pleading quality. "Haven't you anything to show?" "Not yet -- but soon," Carteret promised and Shan glared at him. "It takes time for us to go through all the possibilities." "Sometimes months," I said and, under D'Vrainy's stare, added with forced optimism; "or maybe we'll stumble on it tomorrow." "Stumble. Oh, I know -- Psychologist Josepha Wales and her widely vaunted intuitive insight. Well, read cards or crystal-ball gaze but find us answers." Shan threw me a shut up look. "Believe me, sir, it does take time. We are anxious to help the Jeeli, too. Just as eager as you are for solutions." "Are you? I'm where the buck stops. You said maybe ronths. We haven't got maybe months. Thirty days, outside. We've got to bring these people forward -- and now. That would certainly be better than relocating the population, I hope we agree?" D'Vrainy paused and looked down at Tryss and suddenly smiled. He began to chat in Jeeli with the boy and it was plain his friendliness was genuine. Tryss grinned back and glowed at this attention. "We're examining some new flora samples now," Shan muttered, half to himself. We were both afraid of and admiring of D'Vrainy. We knew the Division's deadline on the Jeeli problem and understood that he had to lean on us. Yet the situation on this planet was enough to make anyone with IF even an ounce of pity tear hair. ""Ey-dya, Tryss." We glanced toward the lab door. Berayn hulked there, looking at us with half-closed eyes. "FaWfl," Tryss responded, waving a hand in a go-away gesture. D'Vrainy studied the Jeelian adolescent framed by the door. "Some relation to this mascot of yours?" "Brother," Shan said. It was difficult to believe. Tryss was a near equivalent of a bright Terran eleven-year-old, from a limited intellectual background, and eminently teachable. He'd make a great little lab tech, for example. Berayn, a scant three years older, was a caricature from Earth's rustic past: dull expression, mouth always slightly open, sleepy eyes, slouching posture, slothful movements and an intelligence response-level definitely subnormal. I'd run those tests myself. D'Vrainy pouted and his hands behind his back flipped rapidly at the feathered cloak. The action made him look tailed and didn't improve his baleful image. "What the hell happens to them?" and there was frustration and anguish in his voice. "Given time," Shan offered, "we hope we can find out." "You know the deadline. Surely in that time we can help the Jeeli up to where they can start being self-sufficient?" I had a moment's irrational idea that in their own dull, contented way perhaps the Jeeli yere self-sufficient; but at the time I knew they were not and kept quiet. D'Vrainy went on, "There's a whole big rich planet out there, just waiting for them to develop it. And we can show them how, if they'll just learn. Tools, strap them up. They can be fullfledged partners with us." Shan hunched himself against the counter. I knew that look; having been reminded so forcefully once more of the depressing nature of the Jeeli problem he was trying hard to keep scientifically aloof and not succeeding. "All speed, sir -- you know that." D'Vrainy's shoulders slumped. "Just keep at it. Anything you need. Anything at all." Then he straightened and moved lightly toward the door. Berayn, after a moment's intense study of the size of their two bodies and the shape of the door, edged out of the way so D'Vrainy could pass. The director paused and looked down at the boy, compassion covering his usually stern countenance. Finally he went out, shaking his head and muttering, "Dammit -- " Shan immediately got to work on the tapes. Tryss ignored his brother and instead watched Shan sorting. At once he saw the sequence and tried to help. That was a sharp little mind and we all knew that in just a few years it would be buried under a moronic expression like Berayn's. I stared at Berayn. He gazed back. There was no spark of interest in his face. No resentment, either. He was a living epitome of don't-give-a-damn and he was no exception. The whole adolescent and adult native population of Jeel had the same who-cares attitude toward life. Tryss was still pawing through the tapes. "This one here? Ah! And this one come after number five!" But, then, Tryss was only eleven, not fourteen. I picked up the latest printout again and studied it. My talent is supposed to be looking at things in an unusual way, detecting patterns that those closer to the forest might miss. So far, on this planet, I hadn't earned my keep. "Something?" Shan said hopefully. "Yes. At puberty the Jeeli stop developing intellectually. Not only that, they lose much of what they've learned throughout childhood." Shan's mouth quirked. He was obviously annoyed that for an instant I'd given him the impression I'd found something new. "Don't we all?" permitted Shan and I liked to walk after work in the evening -- if there was an evening on that particular planet. It was the time allotted to bounce ideas off each other, to play Let's See What We Have So Far. That evening after D'Vrainy's visit was no exception. "At least the Jeeli aren't dying or in danger of extinction," Shan muttered, not sounding cheered. "Just in perpetual stagnation. Anthro says they've been this way for a long time -- that well-preserved burial they found dated out to around two hundred thousand Terran years." We were both trying to avoid thinking of the possibility of Relocation for the Jeeli. It would be necessary, though, for their own safety, during the industrialization of their planet -- unless we could find the key to unlock their minds and bring them up the ladder. Shan viciously slung a pebble down the grassy slope we stood on. Below us a cluster of crude dwellings straggled about a little stream, each unworkmanlike hovel sporting a flimsy porch. "Look at that. They were building those same primitive shacks when that burial was made and they build them the same way today, without any change whatsoever. Do you suppose they'll fix up those two that have fallen down or just move in with their relatives?" "Oh, they'll rebuild them eventually, maybe, when the kids get energetic andprovide the enthusiasm and direction. In this climate there's no big rush." IF "There is for us. While we examine and reexamine them more Jeeli are turning into mental mush. The whole culture is climbing a hill -- and it never gets to the top. The average Jeeli gets no higher than fourteen years up that hill, then he gets thrown back down again and stays there. We've got to change that." It hurt. It hurt all of us. You didn't get into Ethnic Research of the Division unless you psych tested with powerful empathic attitudes toward primitive peoples, a tremendous desire to assist. Sometimes it wasn't necessary to push, only show the way; but Survey had established, easily, that Jeel wasn't in that category. And here we were drowning in the results of that classification. Everything in our training and psychology pointed us toward helping underdeveloped species up their individual cultural ladders. We just couldn't ignore them. Tryss puffed up the hill toward us, a big grin on his face. "Doctor Carteret say last test is point ninenine CO -- CO -- " "Correlation," I finished for him. Sometimes I wondered if Carteret ever rested. He dug at every problem until he had it licked, though it was possible that this time he'd meet defeat. I rubbed the top of Tryss's hairless head, trying not to blame the messenger for bad news. "So much for that theory." Shan shook his head. "Poor kids. How do they ever learn anything? They certainly don't get any education from their elders. They're almost feral children." "But they seem happy." Tryss had gone back several meters from the slope and hunkered under the low-hanging branches of a tree, even though it wasn't hot. And at the sight something jolted me. Jeeli children rarely sought shade. But all the adults -- and the adolescents as they neared or reached puberty -- got out of the sun as much as possible even when the light was dim, as now. Under trees, under those ridiculous porches. When they changed to their useless, lethargic state they sought -- trees, porches, shelter. I sat down beside Tryss, ignoring the threat of fierce stains from the Jeelian version of fescue. From the way I felt I was probably bugeyed but Tryss didn't seem to think me impolite. He returned my look with a wondering smile, apparently thinking this was a game. "The learning process itself," I said slowly and carefully. My thoughts were moving fast. "What?" "How do humanoids learn -- or most mammals?" "That's your department," Shan said in a halfhearted attempt at a teasing reply. He sat down on the other side of Tryss. "Go on." "The learning process is largely a response to stimuli." "Okay. Burn your hand on an object and learn not to." "Right. Or have a pleasant experience and try to repeat it." I chewed my knuckles a moment, trying to get mentally organized. I had a suspicion I was going to kick myself for my earlier stupidity when I got where I was heading. "But if the stimulus-response pattern were interfered with -- " "We've tested for native drugs." Shan sighed. "They're not on anything like, say, coca leaves." Tryss was getting bored. The game wasn't much fun and we were using words he didn't understand. "No, but what if it were something the body itself produces? Not from the outside but from within. Like histamines." "It would have been present in the adults when we examined them." Despite his arguments, Shan was beginning to catch my excitement. "Sure! But did we know what we were looking for? We were checking mostly for foreign substances. This unknown quality would appear to be a natural, an element that belonged in their bodies. It would probably be present in the kids' systems, too -- but the difference might be so minute we didn't spot it before." "We've already run total physicals on scads of specimens and the stuff is long gone. That means new tests and new specimens," Shan said with a groan. I waved away this annoyance. "What we need is -- " "A lot of test stimuli and a pair of Jeeli twins who will enter puberty all at once, overnight on successive nights. Only it doesn't happen that way." "Would you settle for a pair of brothers, one pre-, one post-pubertal?" "Tryss and Berayn?" He looked skeptical. "I doubt if they'd think much of new blood and tissue samples, either." I grinned reassuringly at Tryss, feeling like a Judas. "No, but they're close at hand and we know their data better than most of our specimens. And -- " Tryss smiled back at us and I knew Shan was feeling my own nerve-wracking compulsion to solve this problem at any cost. We'd been programed, as it were, by our own culture, our own emotional learning processes. Shan said it for both of us, "None of us wants to see Tryss become like Berayn." about the idea of using Tryss and Berayn as guinea pigs. He was kindly enough to shrink from the thought of what we might do to them. "You said a free hand," Shan reminded him and Carteret nodded. D'Vrainy studied the two boys uneasily. They were not clear on what was expected of them but IF they recognized his authority and awaited his decision, Tryss apprehensively, Berayn blankly. Carteret said, "We wouldn't take this approach if we didn't have every anticipation of a successful conclusion." Shan glanced sharply at his cochief, opened his mouth to argue, then shut it. "This team wants to see the Jeeli's minds unfettered." "Unfettered. Yes." D'Vrainy had started at the word, then smiled. His big hands fell on the shoulders of the brothers. I couldn't grasp much of the following conversation he had with them -- the tapes couldn't teach me that fast and D'Vrainy had almost two hundred days' head start -- but it seemed to encourage them both. I caught the word "Duty" and another phrase which might have translated as "Noble Help." Tryss drew himself up proudly and even Berayn looked mildly impressed. Persuasion done, D'Vrainy shrugged his feathered shoulders and gave us a parting shot: "And try not to stick them with needles." We didn't enjoy doing so. But despite the advances of medicine through the centuries there still wasn't any way for our techs to get blood or several other kinds of tissue samples out of a humanoid body without poking it with a syringe or punch. (There'd been some experiments with alternatives, of course, years back. But the Bekart Method -- a kind of radical osmosis -- tended to leach out a lot of other things along with the desired sample and leave patients in rather nasty conditions. It had been abandoned for the older, surer, more painful method.) Tryss yelled a lot but Berayn didn't seem to mind our procedures at all. Shan and I exchanged glances and he raised his eyebrows. "Josy, you may have spotted the tree amid the forest again." I cued the comp log, feeling cautiously elated. "Not only less alert as adolescents but they have a distinctly higher pain threshold. We'd sort of assumed that the kids we picked for earlier samples yelled at the needle because most humanoid kids from nonstoic cultures do." "I don't think Berayn's being a stoic," Shan said firmly. "He just doesn't seem to feel pain as much as Tryss does." And with each test that initial conclusion was more and more strongly reinforced. Tryss became hysterical at the sight of a needle or anything that resembled one. After our first traumatic experiences with him, we made very sure to take a large enough sample to last for any number of tests. I had never seen any e.t. child react quite so violently, not just with tears and protests but with white-lipped, almost convulsive panic. Berayn on the other hand took the whole thing with equanimity. We'd thought at first we might have to ply him with a lot of food to keep him pacified, but he made no fuss at all. Just as well, since he didn't seem to have a great deal of interest in food beyond his basic requirements. Enthusiasm for everything seemed to diminish after whatever it was happened to the Jeeli. It was a marvel the entire race hadn't died out. Sooner than I'd hoped I spotted something suspicious on the tape. Apparently my expression must have been a giveaway, because before I could get my mouth open Shan, Carteret and several key bio people trotted toward me. "Something?" Shan said. Research put me on the team because I have a special feeling for puzzles, including multi-track comp tapes. I like to study lots of threads and then see how the pieces are going to come together. That Qualified Tech First in psych wouldn't have been enough by itself (I'd completed it, however, knowing I couldn't get anywhere without a degree), but Assignments regarded my ability to generalize as a valuable stock-in-trade for our line of work. Right now the puzzle pieces were falling into place so fast I had a feeling they were dragging me along with them. I pointed to the comp tape. Takana, our bio expert, leaned over my shoulder to watch. "Pull together neuro and hemo for a start. Allow for a quantitative difference because it's a different species. Now doesn't this look like a loss here, in Berayn's sensory and motor responses? Mostly in sensory, if I read right, a bit less inhibition in motor." Shan shuffled his feet and chewed his thumb while Carteret and Takana tapped the comp for elaborating data. The machine did some mechanical nail biting and began spitting out fresh readings. Questions started immediately and I had to hold up a hand to fend them off while I read the results. "Yes -- I remember now! Read me out: Transmitting nerve impulses involves a shift in sodium and potassium ions, right? According to the comp, at this point it spotted a slowdown in that process in Berayn. Not an interference by our species' medical standards, but apparently by his." Takana was nodding, too busy tracing a line onr the tape to comment. "It's the ion shift. It's being inhibited -- and selectively." "Let me see that," Carteret insisted. He pushed between us, joining Takana, hunched over the comp. I knew why they always gave us printout rather than voice comps: people like Carteret didn't believe anything unless they could see it. I hoped I hadn't goofed. I could imagine Carteret's report to Division if I had. Shan might have let it slide but not our take-charge boy. But, if I were right, he'd know that, too; Carteret had few equals in neuro. First he muttered to himIF self, then said to his tech, "Pull our earlier tapes on dendrite samples." "We got something?" Shan pleaded. He was even more alone than I was, stuck in an administrative rut and only occasionally getting back to his beloved mycology. "We'll let you know." Checking and rechecking proceeded hastily. We all felt the quickening sensation of a growing conviction we were finally on the right track. Shan and Carteret both fidgeted every time we warned them not to call D'Vrainy yet. We had to be sure. Finally Takana began scribbling, confirmed himself with the comp, frowned, scratched out a line or two. He and Carteret put their heads together over the paper, adding, paring. Suddenly they stopped and looked at each other, stJU'tled, Carteret's pointed hawk nose close to Tak's rounded oriental one. Tak slithered the paper to me. I drew back from it unhappily. "Chemistry isn't my department, you know." It looked vaguely familiar, though, even to me. "Is that a kind of -- aspirin?" "Yes and no." Carteret was looking very smug. "I don't think it would cure any of our headaches. It's a subtly different compound, quite subtly, which is one reason we didn't spot it before. It's unlike anything we've hit elsewhere. Definitely acetic acid there and some other things we can break down pretty quickly." "But we already know what it does," Tak broke in enthusiastically. "It -- in the case of the Jeeli -- interferes with the shift between sodium and potassium ions necessary for nerve impulse transmission. You were right, Josy." "Works predominantly on intake rather than output, as you said," Carteret gloated. "But on both to some degree." He didn't quite rub his hands together but the aura of greedy triumph was very much there. "And its quantity is negligible in pre-pubescent Jeeli?" "You don't know the half of it! Now that we've found what to look for the comp's turned up plenty of previous correlations. Gradual increase until by Berayn's age they're flooded with it. Like natural histamines in our species, the body produces it. No outside source. All the Jeeli have some of it, but the pressures of maturation seem to push production into high gear at puberty, when there are plenty of other things like hormones running around in their systems which effectively mask it -- unless you look very closely." "Josy?" Shan said plaintively. "Now you can call D'Vrainy." A can cure them?" D'Vrainy had only needed the barest rundown to grasp the point and slice through our burbles of discovery. '"So their bodies drug themselves for some unknown reason' "Evolutionary side pocket," Carteret explained, "like a wisdom tooth in a Terran. Once needed but now useless and, if it's a problem, easily removed. Same with the Jeeli and their 'aspirin'." "Maybe," Takana said. D'Vrainy looked at him sharply. "You aren't agreed?" "We're agreed that as long as this process goes on the Jeeli aren't going anywhere culturally," Shan said. Carteret and Takana both nodded. "With their stimulus reception severely muffled, not only learning but most other activity requiring much initiative or creativity has come to a halt. It's amazing they've progressed as far as they have with their rudimentary agriculture and those travesties they call buildings. We can probably credit those to a lucky series of child geniuses some time in their past." "But we're certain we've found the loopholes," I finished. "What's the holdup, then?" "A choice has to be made," Shan said, "on the advisability of going through that loophole. It's different from simply removing a native drug sour'ce or some other outside chemical influence. This is tricky. We ought to be able to counteract the stuff that's turning them into zombies but -- " D'Vrainy was plainly annoyed. "That was the whole object in bringing you here! If you can't cure them, what good are you?" There were a number of visible winces around the group. "There might be unexpected consequences," Shan said slowly, "some unpleasant side-effects we can't anticipate. The comp tells us the same condition doesn't prevail in any other existing Jeelian species, and that our chances of inducing them in a lower life form are nil. The chem people, at least, are sure we can find a way to override this natural super-aspirin they have running around in their neural synapses. But we can't predict exactly what will happen when the overriding agent is ministered." "It'll wake them up?" "We can wake them up," Carteret said with happy dogmatism. "And the results might be a bit much to handle," I warned. "It might make them -- well, aggressive, for instance. The Jeeli have no history of war. Stimulated, jolted out of their millenia-long lethargy, they might discover their neighbors annoyed them and start bashing in their heads right and left. We certainly went through a long enough period of that sort of thing, still are to some extent. Can we afford to take a chance of doing such a thing to the Jeeli?" D'Vrainy strolled back and forth, flapping his cloak. He was plainly struggling over it, and I didn't envy him. It was hard to dislike the Jeeli; but leaving them in IF their present state was out of the question. Yet we had to be sure this was the key that would open their culture up. "You have other reservations?" D'Vrainy said, eyeing us suspiciously. "Any time you tinker with the body chemistry of a living thing, you're gambling," Shan said. "Sometimes it works out wonderfully, like the discovery that we could force the human body to produce its own antibodies. In a few other cases we haven't been so fortunate." D'Vrainy glanced to his right. Tryss and Berayn sat there, playing a game involving colored pebbles and quick responses. At least, Tryss was playing. Berayn was getting skunked, but then it was a child's game. He just couldn't move quickly enough to compete any more. As a compensation of sorts he seemed to have lost much of the urge to compete. He didn't become angry at his losses but just made feeble grabbing motions for the pebbles and occasionally chuckled embarrassedly. "Go ahead," D'Vrainy finally ordered, a man stepping onto an ocean covered with thin ice. "Open up Berayn's mind, if you can, and the rest of the Jeeli's minds. We have to take the risk. See if you can unshackle them." our chem boys to find a simple counter to the natural salicylic. phenol, or whatever. They tossed around the terms interchangeably, it seemed to me, with "neo" and "Jeeli" tacked onto their coinings as suffixes or prefixes, depending on their disciplines. "You've got something like it right there in your hand, Josy," Takana said, laughing. I glanced down at my cup of caffe. "We've been habituated to caffeine for several centuries now. It's only fair the Jeeli get their own version." He held out his hand and displayed a gel containing an unappetizing gray powder. "Native sources -- and more than enough. We had several kilos this morning, even before the test animal experiments. The Jeeli can be taught to refine it by themselves. With the effect this stuff will produce, it'll be easy to teach them how." "I'd like a test on Berayn," Shan said, annoyed, "when and if we ever have a complete staff once again. Where is everybody?" "Oh, Carteret and his boys went off somewhere as soon as we got the comp confirmation. He took most of what we had of the stimulant; I think he wanted to tell D'Vrainy in person." "I'm sure. An ordinary com call couldn't suffice for such a triumph as this." "Indeed it wouldn't." Speak of the devil. Carteret and what seemed like half our staff -- his techs and other acolytes -- trooped in. They all looked inordinately pleased with themselves and something in their manner gave me a chill. "Would it be all right if we proceeded with the experiment?" Shan said icily. "It hardly seems necessary, you know." Carteret's techs were beginning to shut up some of their equipment in what was obviously a close-down phase. "The comps told us what we needed to know and I've already given D'Vrainy what he wanted." "What?" Shan's voice was low and shaking. "Of course. I gave him enough to distribute immediately to the Jeeli water sources. His crews are busy dumping it now. By morning -- " "Without a live test?" Shan was outraged but helpless against that totally confident personality of his cochief. "Don't you believe your own comps? D'Vrainy does. And Vm sure Division will, especially when we can tell them how the Jeeli are moving forward." He waved a negligent hand. "Oh, go on with your individual test. It'll make you feel better -- and your report will add that nice touch of humanity to the comp printout." Shan nodded grimly to Takana and the little oriental approached Berayn. The boy sat propped up against the wall, a bowl of halfeaten food in his lap. He didn't react when Tak and his team swarmed around him. Without protest he submitted to the electrodes, the blood pressure cuff and all the other impedinnenta interfering with his meal. Takana offered him a capsule and Berayn swallowed it without hesitation. We waited less than five minutes and the results were overwhelming. Berayn's eyes widened and he began to look around, not with his usual bland lack of interest but with an expression that strongly resembled panic. One of the techs dropped a lid on a case and the boy jumped -- literally -- about half a meter. "More alert all ready," Carteret began smugly, then stopped. "Nooo -- " Berayn said, slitherof food down his thighs and onto the floor. The techs moved hastily to accommodate his change of position, shuffling tubes and wires trailing from his body. Shan stepped forward, planning to call a temporary halt. He didn't have time. Takana and the techs tried to be soothing and Berayn swiveled to face them with eyes that were bright and terrified. His lips peeled back like a frightened animal's. "Nooo -- " he wailed again, putting his hands tightly against his ears. He felt the electrodes on his scalp and ripped them away. One of them caught, drew blood. Berayn screamed and flailed against the wall, obviously in agony. IF "Stop it! Get that injection to counter..." Tryss rushed toward his brother, horrified at what was happening. They two shouted at each other in Jeeli and all the while Berayn beat away his "attackers" and their attempts to help him. He suddenly seemed terribly strong for a small, adolescent extra-terrestrial. Suddenly, on top of everything else, the com buzzed on. I saw D'Vrainy's image come into focus, and his expression, half tragic, half enraged, was a study. He was roaring. "Get Carteret on this line!" Carteret looked stunned as he crossed to the com, a man with a theory crumbling under his feet. I couldn't spare the attention to hear what D'Vrainy might say to him because the struggle with Berayn had become a desperate battle. Abruptly the boy tore loose from everything, the hoses and equipment flapping behind him like streamers. He ran for the door of the lab. Takana and the others pelted after him, shouting assurances and pleas to stop that only made Berayn yell the louder. They all clattered out. The boy's screaming still rang in our ears when Shan and I followed them long seconds later. We paused on the threshold, stunned. Tryss was standing amid the debris of the porch, sobbing. "Berayn hurt -- hurt all over. You give him something make him hurt -- " "We were trying to help him," Shan apologized. "How did he hurt?" Sniffling, Tryss said, Ears hurt. Eyes hurt. Feet hurt where you stand on 'em. Air hurt when it push against you." Then he added with great wistfulness, "Just like it do me sometimes. Keep hurt -- hurt more and more. But when you get Berayn old, hurt go away." "You didn't tell us that," Shan said weakly. "Everybody little hurt," Tryss said with horrible simplicity. I recognized the tone from my teaching apprenticeship: childhood's contempt for adult obtuseness. Of course. It wasn't worth mentioning because it was a universal. Everybody little hurt and Tryss was little. "But then it go away. When you get big, it go away." "It goes away," I said dully, feeling sick. "Because their bodies make it go away. Shan, we can't help them without driving them insane or making them kill themselves to escape. We took the wrong tack: in their species pain and pleasure aren't learning stimuli -- they have to be avoided. The evolutionary side pocket isn't the deadening agent; it's the steadily increasingly painful stimuli they experience throughout childhood. Berayn's condition is the normal one, the survival adaptation. And Tryss is just now approaching the age where his body, in self defense, will start manufacturing its own natural depressant." "We used the mildest dosage we could," Shan murmured. "Good thing. Right now Berayn is obviously being battered by stimuli, maybe far more than he ever was as a child; but he's no longer able to take it. None of the adolescents or adults are -- my God, Shan! Carteret! The native water supplies! Listen -- " Distantly, underlining Berayn's fading shrieks, we could now hear other high-pitched Jeeli voices. They came from the direction of the nearest collection of hovels. I could visualize hundreds of painmaddened Jeeli adults clawing at their heads, being torn apart by the flood of stimuli -- from the gates we had all helped open. And knowing D'Vrainy's thoroughness, I had a sinking certainty that he'd sent the compound out to all his stations, all over the planet and our scene of horror was being enacted many times over. Carteret had thrown the switch, I'd first given him the fuse and the rest of us all concdcted this -- leg up a ladder to nowhere. I wanted to bawl with disappointment, to crawl into a corner where I wouldn't have to hear or see the tortured Jeeli. "We've destroyed them! The children -- they can't -- they'll -- they'll have to be relocated. They won't even have a culture by morning. Listen! The adults will be dead, or insane. Oh, Shan! What have we done!" Out in the dark Berayn was still howling. The pursuing techs were still trying to reach him through the avalanche of stimuli assaulting the boy -- if only they could catch him. And a meter away from us, standing in the ruins of the porch roof, Tryss sobbed, trembling in empathic pain. We barely caught the word, "Porch -- " but his tone of pathetic pleading was plain. His hands were over his ears, trying to shut out his brother's screams. But he couldn't. We'd taken away their porches -- their shelters against a world so incredibly painful we could barely imagine it. Or could we? Now?  #M IF thing new; something borrowed, something blue." It isn't entirely inappropriate for science fiction, which represents something of a marriage between reality and a dream. It is also the fair beginning of a formula for writing, except that it should add a number of other items -- the rest of the colors, something false and something true, and so on. But nowadays we're lucky to have even the four elements worked into a book and the meaning of "blue" may apply to something other than mood. This time the something borrowed is represented by Roger Zelazny's Nine Princes in Amber (Doubleday, #). In this book he has borrowed from every legend I can remember of the marvelous land of Faerie. I suppose those who feel it incumbent to spot trends and see limits are going to carp at the fact that Zelazny is still sticking to myth (though not religion) for his inspiration. But since myth is the source of almost all our best literature in one form or another, I can't object. And I can very much applaud the fact that when Zelazny borrows, he turns it into an act of high creation. The borrowed elements here are so well adapted and so much enriched by his own additions and attitudes that the background becomes one of the freshest lands of wonder in which I've roamed for some time. The Princes of the title are the nine sons of Oberon -- a brawling, arrogant and contumaceous lot of varied and oddly-talented nobics. Oberon, it seems, has mysteriously been forced to give up his rule and U# he is either dead or somehow locked from contact. Now his sons are fighting for the rule of the kingdom of Amber. This world of Amber is the source world of all others -- the reality from which our Earth and other lands are only the incomplete shadows across the infinite planes of possibility. We follow Corwin, who has been exiled to Earth. And since the days of the years of Faerie are not as those we know, he has spent many centuries here. But now the ancient feud with the apparent victorious prince, Eric, is reaching a new phase. Corwin, following an attempt to murder him, is bereft of much of his memory and most of his powers, but none of his wits. He sets about working his way back to Amber. And once he manages that return, he is caught in the ancient struggle as Eric tries to become crowned the king of Amber. The cast of characters is rich and varied and the lands through which we are led are excellently conceived. Plot and counterplot work well. And above all, there is a richness of texture and mood to the book, together with a fine inventiveness. It should be a novel to be recommended without quibble. Unfortunately, it isn't a novel. It's the beginning of one and nothing more. At the end we are left with a fine collection of unresolved items and a hero who is merely free to do what he has been temporarily stopped from achieving. But he has achieved nothing yet. Oberon, who appears as a voice that must eventually be significant, is simply dropped. A number of other characters must eventually also reappear -- both nobles and commoners. The background for the story is laid but the story is not yet told. Obviously there must be a sequel -- perhaps more than one. (This has every earmark of the first book in a trilogy, judging by the pacing and what has developed within its large frame so far.) It makes what one may consider an excellent first installment of a three-part (hardcover book) serial. But it doesn't make very fair treatment for the reader, at the price. There has been a tendency lately for writers to fall into the practice of doing books that are incomplete (or which have a contrived but unsatisfactory ending grafted on) with the idea of a series in mind. I frankly resent it. If the writer can work out an ending that seems satisfactory and complete, there is nothing wrong with assorted sequels. But if he can't or doesn't choose to, it seems to me the whole should be published as one book. This seminovel runs to perhaps # words. Three times that length is not impossible as a single volume. And I'd much rather pay the extra cost to get something that can be judged as a whole than to buy it in parts with IF no certainty of when the rest may come out. Since no book can ever be better than its final resolution of its basic elements -- writers, please note -- and since there is no resolution here, I can't make an honest attempt to judge it. Zelazny's previous performances make me feel the whole will be well worth the trouble of buying all parts, but this is a matter of faith only; and too many slips can occur before the totality can be gained. Buy it if you like to play guessing games with the possibilities an author raises -- or if you are willing to wait for a year or more for the second installment. Otherwise, why fatten the income of publishers who would rather print books than serve their readers with honest novels? us something blue -- in the classic sense of blue mood, not blue material. His Year of the Quiet Sun (Ace Special, #) is essentially downbeat from the beginning. As such, in most ways, it is an excellent work. Most of the development in this story of a research program designed to explore the future directly to spot "trends" is rather obvious -- but it's handled in such a way that the lack of uncertainty in no way detracts from the interest of the book. At first I hoped this was going to be another book I could use like Tucker's Time Masters. That was one I considered perhaps the best example of true science fiction (aliens among us, immortality, space research, etc.) that was suitable for the general reader; I've read it as such several times myself and lent it to several readers who thought they couldn't like science fiction. The writing is generally up to Tucker's very high standard. And there is an element of mystery and allure added to the future search by the use of myth, in the form of an ancient "lost book" of biblical writing. (This, I'm afraid, turns out to be of minor importance and rather less than full conviction, unlike his use of Gilgamesh in the other book.) But too much of the real depth of this novel has been wantonly butchered by the use of a trick that should never have been used. The hero, while waiting for his trip in the time device into the future, vies with another man for the girl who supervises everything. It's impossible to see why, and we get a listless and spineless impression of him. (It's also a bit hard to see why he wants her, but that's his prolv lem; and if honestly stated, it might have been convincing.) The key factor seems to be one that comes up after most of the novel is done. The girl is, of course, white; the narrator is black. Okay, he is then a man of considerable complexity -- a man who has externally overcome his background but is still obsessed with it internally. He should be a richly rewarding character. But since the reader is very carefully kept from this knowledge, and since it therefore plays no part in his thinking as revealed to us, we see none of this true character. Oh, we can go back and try to read it into the events; but the reason writers get paid for their work is because they are the ones best fitted to round out such character traits, not leave it to readers. The trick is unfair, since it demands a total reevaluation of all that went before after the reader has formed his impressions and since this is a story seen only through the one viewpoint. It is also unfortunate, since it reduces the character to a mere frame against which events can happen. The dedication of the book implies there is value to the ability to "grok," and perhaps the reader is expected to go and do likewise. Buy the book if you want an exthe fact that I've spoiled the trick (which was inherently spoiled in its very conception.) Maybe that is grokking. But if you'd rather have your novel given its character development by the writer, pass this one by. B oth something very old and something new are contributed in one massive book: Under the Moons of Mars, edited and with a history by Sam Moskowitz (Hold, Rinehart  Winston, #). This fat book -- running to #t),# words, according to Moskowitz -- deals with the second decade of this century in the pulp magazines, and traces the "scientific romance" as one of the sources of our literature. Primarily, this is a source book for libraries. But to readers who can't get a true feeling of the exerpted stories or who are curious about our beginnings, it strikes me as a bargain. It begins with a very brief introduction and then generous samples of the works from major writers of the period. These run from the original form of what became Burrough's Princess of Mars through The Moon Pool to Blind Spot. Most of these stories are available now only in back issues of magazines almost as hard to get as the old Munsey publications where they first appeared. For anyone who cannot find the material elsewhere -- which must mean for most readers #f our literature -- this is a fine chance to fill in a pretty fair picture of what made these works the classics they have become. In a few cases the entire stories are given; in other cases the samples are generous, covering significant portions of the work, and there has been no tampering, no condensation of the text. IF At the end, in what would be a longer-than-average book by itself, Moskowitz adds the history of the Munsey magazines (as well as a good deal of information on their competitors) during the period of # to #, when such stories were the backbone of their popularity. Most attention, naturally, is paid to Edgar Rice Burroughs and his dealings with the editors. This is a good deal less simple than might be thought; his rates of payment, the stories of his which were accepted and which were rejected, and his whole affair with Munsey are covered in detail. But there is a good coverage of most of the other writers of the time, too. This is hardly material that is new to me in its broad outline. Yet when I sat down to skim through it quickly, I soon found myself reading it as I might have read a novel -- with genuine enjoyment. There are places where I wish other treatment had been possible. Bob Davis as an editor had such a strong influence on American writing for the next generation that I'd have liked to have seen more on him; yet this is not properly the province of the book, so I have to put that down as a purely personal desire. (And if anyone wants to do a biography of Davis, there are still plenty of writers he taught their craft, though this won't be true much longer. So please, anyone out there...) Within the intent of this history, however, I think Moskowitz has done a fine job. It should be stocked by every library. And for the fans who want to know how we got where we are (if that isn't erewhon revisited), this is a book greatly to be recommended.  Koli T t SilverlMrg -- TIi World Outsido tebert A. Heinlein -- f Will Foar Mo Evil WiNiom T. Powers -- Roadout Timo It was Christmas -- and all he wanted was to give! F our days before Christmas I had my first of two troubles with the Creep and Della grew ill and Shambolain arrived -- and nothing was ever quite the same after that. Ordinarily I would have been on the Street working the Bleeders for quarters and dimes, but the weather was miserable that day. When it's a little cold the Bleeders are more generous because I look more pitiful, huddled and shivering against my begging wall; but when it gets really bitter they aren't about to stop and freeze their fingers to find you a quarter. That day it was only ten above zero and the snow was coming down in fine, dry flakes. The wind was so strong that it made the driven snow stick to the bricks and it eddied in the angles of wall and walk, creating drifts that reformed as quickly as I cleared them away. I had only taken in two dollars and eleven cents in almost four hours, and I only needed one more excuse to head for home. And I got it: the Creep. This skinny guy in a heavy gray overcoat with fur collar moved up through the sheets of snow and dropped two quarters in my cup. He had been passing regularly for two weeks, always making heavy donations and always with a word about the weather. Most Straights don't talk to Freaks, no matter how much they bleed for us. I suspected this skinny guy was a Creep, even though he looked bland and unimposing. "It's going to be a mess soon," he said. "Yeah," I said, wishing he would go away. I've never really known how to talk to a Straight. Usually, my trick is to look him over for some vaguely Freakish feature like gigantic ears, a warted nose or eyes set too close together. Then I talk to the Freak part of him. But this Creep was too plain to harbor even the slightest abnormality. "You shouldn't be out here on a day like this," he said, gently laying his hand on the hump between my shoulders. I froze. He made his gesture seem one of friendship but his fingers moved ever so slightly, trying to feel through the coarse weave of my coat. "You're the one with the third foot," he said. I didn't say anything. What should I have said? "I've heard about you." He said it as if he were complimenting me. The wind blew a stronger gust and we backed flat to the wall to get out of the worst of it. I stepped into a drift and felt my socks getting wet. "Do you have a third foot?" he asked. When I nodded, he said, "Where is it? I only see two shoes." I looked into the cup I still held in a perpetual position of request (sometimes I wake up at night and find my hand held out, my fingers bent around a tin vessel that isn't there) and saw the lousy pile of coins in the bottom. "On my calf," I said, not looking at him, not looking anywhere but in the cup. "That's why you wear the baggy pants," he said thickly. Yes, damn it, yes, yes... We huddled against the cold, waiting for each other. He was the Creep, damn it. It was his move. He shouldn't have expected me to ask. But he did. And we waited until I finally said, "You want to see it, don't you?" "If I could," he murmured. Even in the cold, whipping air and obscuring snow I could see the glimmer of excitement in his eyes. I hate the Creeps. We stood a while longer. I was not going to take the next step. Damn him, that was his job if he was so interested. "How much?" he asked at last. I told him it would be five dollars. He got out his wallet, opened to a roll of a hundred and fifty bucks and peeled off the bill. I took it and stuffed it into my pocket, then stooped to roll up my pantleg. "Not here," he said. "No alley," I told him. "No room somewhere. Here or nowhere." He looked disappointed, then shrugged. "Very well." I rolled my trousers past the knee and turned my leg so he could get a good look. The shrunken, gray calf, almost muscleless, was puckered like a womb and gave birth to a half-sized foot otherwise perfect in detail. He looked for a long moment, breathing heavily, then reached out and touched it. I danced away and kicked his shin with my good leg, rolled down my trousers. "Look here -- " he started to argue. "You Creep!" I shouted. "I didn't say you could touch it. No one said you could touch it, you stinking Creep -- " His face flushed and he turned, hurrying away through the snow, trying to look inconspicuous. I watched him go, wishing I had kicked him harder so he would hurt as much as me. With the weather being so rotten and the Creep so depressing, I couldn't take the Street much longer. It was only two blocks to home, but it took me a while on account of my bum leg. My third foot was aching like a rotting tooth in the cold. When I finally reached the steps down into our cellar I gritted my teeth, gripped the icy iron railing and hopped down on my one good foot. Twice my bum leg slapped against the concrete and made me gasp. Then I was through the door into our warm living room and my spirits lightened considerably. Jenifer and Sully were slouched in easy chairs -- Jenny's long, loveIF ly, brown legs propped on a stack of magazines serving as ottoman. At twenty-two she was tawny, supple, as much a cat as a girl. I admired her legs, full hips, thrusting breasts bare under her sweater, and the thick fall of her dark hair. I also admired and loved her left arm which had no hand and the smooth-skinned concavity where her left eye socket should have been. I found these as beautiful as legs and breasts, for without her stigmata she would not have been with us. "It could have been bad," I said. "Except I got a fiver from a Creep." "Della's dying," Jenifer said. For the first time I saw the tears in her good eye. I didn't know what to say. "There's something wrong inside," Sully said, scrambling to the floor and balancing on his thick, hairy arms. He had no legs and his trunk was so abbreviated that he could walk on his overdeveloped arms. "There was blood in her bile, and she hurts a lot in her guts." I got up and went to the door of Pike's and Della's bedroom. It was standing ajar; I pushed it open and went inside. There were no lights on but the snow-shielded sunlight filtered dimly through a casement window. Della lay on the bed and Pike knelt on the floor beside her, cradling her with his abnormally large paw. Pike's head, swollen by acromegaly, turned and looked at me, almost as if it were separate from the rest of him. "Let's get her to a hospital," I said. "No." His voice was deep and syrupy as always, though harsher now. "If it's the money we can let the city get stuck with the bills." "I don't want her laughed at," he drawled. "She'd be an amusement to them. And she's afraid; she made me promise not to take her away. She'd hate a hospital." Then he started to sob. It was such a strange sound coming from his distorted throat that I didn't realize immediately what it was. Besides, a Freak never cried. It just doesn't pay. "It's nothing the hospital can help," he said. "You know she's all twisted inside. She's dying because of the way she's made. You can't fight that. Nobody anywhere can do anything at all about that." "The pain -- " I said. "We bought a bottle." He indicated a half-empty fifth of vodka on the nightstand. But she still seemed to feel pain, now and then jumping and twisting in the sheets. The eye in the baseball-sized head bulging from the left sphere of her skull was open and staring. It was cataracted. "The other one," Pike said, indicating the second head, "never opened its eye before. But now it knows." I watched Della dying. I wanted to do something but there was no action within my powers. I had a fleeting desire to tear up the fiver the Creep had given me but I knew that was foolishness. So I just stood there. And Jenifer and Sully stood behind, just inside the doorway, watching and waiting like Pike and me. And, I guess, like Della. It was then that Shambolain arrived. ated a pocket in existence and we had crawled inside to await the end with her. Unnoticed, the stranger had come in from outside, crossed the living room to the doorway behind us. "Is something wrong?" he asked. Everyone turned to look at him -- except Della who twisted and moaned. He was armless but it was his face that was truly strange. His head was an oval, thin and long, with eyes set too low so that there was a very long expanse of forehead between his hairline and brows. His nose was thin, close to his face and with little cartilage structure. His mouth was a bleak line, nearly lipless. His skin had a coppery glow that was oddly unlike a suntan. Still, he was a somewhat handsome man. Rather, he was not handsome as a man, but handsome in his own right, on his own terms. "What do you want?" Pike asked, taking his frustration out on the stranger, his voice harsh and demanding. "No one heard my knock," the stranger said. "I could see you standing here, so I came in. I hope I haven't breached your etiquette." The last sentence had an odd ring to it, as if he were trying to say in English something he had first phrased in a foreign language. "I asked about where I might find others -- of my kind. They told me about you people." "No room here," Pike hissed. Behind him Della turned, sucked air and gagged. "She's badly ill," the newcomer said. "What is the sickness?" "No sickness," I told him. "Her insides are abnormal. She often said the doctor expected her to die shortly after birth. It's finally happening." He moved to the bed, kneeled beside Pike who briefly protested. He touched Della along the ribs and over the swollen bowl of her stomach. He had the quick movements and assurance of a doctor. He turned to me and motioned toward the living room. "Please get my case." I brought the heavy piece of luggage to him. "You'll have to do what's necessary," he said. "As you see, I have no arms." His armlessness was of a strange type; his shoulders were bare in the sleeveless sweater he wore which seemed tailored specially for him and I could see that there were not IF even stumps where arms should have started, but slightly concave basins in his shoulders, as if the limbs had been ripped out by the roots. I did what he asked of me and I never once wondered how he had transported the suitcase to our door when he had no arms. I would not think of that until much later. Within the case were many strange articles for which I could see no purpose, along with what appeared to be medical supplies. I filled a hypodermic syringe with heavy amber fluid and injected it into the puffed vein on Della's arm. Slowly her movements became tamer. She settled, sighed and allowed herself the flicker of a smile. The cataracted eye closed. Fifteen minutes later she giggled girlishly and called Pike's name. She said more though it seemed senseless. "You've doped her," Pike said, not certain if this were good or evil. "No," the stranger said. "A mild drug. The drug relieves the pain but it also creates hallucinations out of the happier moments of her past. She's probably dreaming of being with you." We left Pike with her and went into the living room where we learned that the stranger was new in the city, did not care to talk about his past (quite a common hangup among Freaks) and had but one name that served as his first, middle, and last, and that was: Shambolain. Like his voice, it sounded foreign to me. E arly that evening we made a blanket stretcher and carried Della to the funeral parlor for what simple service we could offer. Brunhoff, the undertaker, was alservice as long as we came to the our last respects in the basement around the fiercely armored cremation furnace where none of his more elite customers might see us. Brunhoff dumped her onto the furnace tray, much as if she had not been a human being. Maybe, to Brunhoff, she had not been. Her head bounced against the metal. Pike made a move toward the undertaker but was blocked by Sully. Without Brunhoff, we would have had to accept city services which amount to nothing, lack dignity and burden the deceased, with the aura of a pauper's grave. Brunhoff grinned at Pike, egging him on, but Pike settled down. Almost dejected that a confrontation had not occurred, Brunhoff adjusted the furnace and slammed the corpse tray into the gaping redflickered maw. We would never see Della again. The ashes were poured into a pretty perfume bottle we had brought for that purpose and Jenifer (our treasurer) took out our cash and asked Brunhoff for a price. We buried someone about every two years and the price seemed to go up a few dollars every time, though the service remained the same. This time, he wanted twenty-five dollars more than before. "We can't afford it," Jenifer said. Brunhoff scowled. "Prices are up everywhere. You'd better be able to afford the rising costs or go elsewhere." "Be reasonable," Jenny said. "We'll pay an extra five dollars." "An extra twenty-five -- plus forty-seven. Seventy-two dollars. And you'll pay it now." He was almost a foot taller than any of us and at least two hundred and fifty pounds. When Jenny started putting our money away and explained we would go elsewhere from then on he snatched the bills from her, clenched them in his big fist. "Get out," he said. He knew that none of us would argue. A cripple cannot afford to fight a bigger man for fear of being further crippled "Give back the money," Shambolain said. He came up beside Jenny, his long face showing anger. Brunhoff repeated his demand that we leave and called us Freaks. He started toward us and we began backing. Except for Shambolain. He stood his ground, his face getting darker and uglier. Brunhoff grabbed him by the shoulders, then made a sudden face. His cheeks became inflamed and his eyes bulged as if someone were throttling him. He released Shambolain and reached for his own throat. Shambolain said, "Pick up the money, Walt." I went forward under Brunhoffs shadow and retrieved the cash from where it had fallen. As I stepped back, Brunhoff went to his knees, fighting for air, gagging thinly. He toppled onto his face and was still. "Is he dead?" Jenny asked from the doorway. "No," Shambolain said. And we left. Shambolain took the other bed in my room that had been Sully's. Jenny still had her own room. I found it difficult to sleep that night, wondering what our new boarder would mean to us. When I did sleep I dreamed about the Creep. It was hypnotism. That's what Shambolain told us he used on Brunhoff when we asked the next morning. He said he had been with a carnival and that he had learned his hypnotic skills from a show magician. We accepted the explanation. The only problem was that in the days to come he used it too often. Three days before Christmas, the day after his arrival, he used his "hypnotism" twice. First, he ran off two punks who were harrassing Sully and me while we IF were trying to teach him the art of hitting the Bleeders for quarters. But they ran like the pain was real and I thought I saw a touch of blood on one of the punk's mouths where a "hypnotic" fist had struck him. He used it, later, to explain why he had collected more money in his half day alone than the rest of us combined. He swore he did not steal the money (though his interpretation of that word might have been different from ours; I think he saw all property as belonging to the community of man and not to the individual). Two days before Christmas he repeated his high gross and again turned all the money into our treasury. His generosity was what brought about his downfall. He did not seem to understand us. As Freaks, we had nothing but our self-respect with which to build the fragments of our disordered lives. At the heart of this self-respect was our pride in our ability to provide for ourselves, even at the expense of begging. For although we begged we did it well and all pride springs from accomplishment. When Shambolain could so easily do better than our wildest dreams, there was no longer much satisfaction in bringing home a good cupful of change. He could support us all and he wanted to. What, then, did our efforts matter? The day before Christmas we stayed home and let him gather alms for all of us. He came home richer than on either of the previous two days and spread his genuinely startling take out on the table. Deep down we hated him for his competence. the trouble came. I should have forseen that our animosity would soon need a safety valve. He had made Della's last moments peaceful when all we could do was let her suffer; we could accept and even be thankful for that. Then he defeated Brunhoff when the rest of us could only act like cowards. That, too, was good -- except that it made the rest of us feel somehow inadequate. When he had driven off the punks Sully and I had felt foolishly inept -- and slightly perturbed that he had not permitted us to take care of the situation on our own, as if we were children he had to protect. A Freak has a delicate regard for his manhood; to throw it in doubt is to drive him nearly to madness. Taking away our pride in earning our own way was his penultimate mistake. His final error was letting us find out what he really was. It came about like this: Although she felt like the rest of us, Jenny had been making it plain that she would welcome Shambolain into her bed occasionally, as she welcomed the rest of us. You must remember that she was above all else a woman -- now a woman intrigued by a new, mysterious and interesting man. When he finally accepted, blushing like a boy, they retired early. Sully and I were, perhaps, a bit jealous, though we have few taboos in our culture. Ptke, of course, could not care, for Della was only a few days dead and his thoughts found their focus on a small perfume bottle full of gray ash. They were in the bedroom for fifteen minutes before Jenny screamed. At the sharp sound of her outcry we turned to look at the door. Her voice was now frantic, quick -- though Shambolain spoke evenly and clamly, as if trying to soothe her. We could not understand what was being said but we had come to the edges of our seats like animals tensing to leap upon prey. I realized later that that was exactly what we were. Jenny came out of the room, a robe thrown haphazardly over her bare body. Shambolain followed almost sheepishly. She looked at each of us, her eyes wide and frightened and said, "He has hands." We looked stupidly at her, unable to comprehend. "While we were -- " She faltered. "I felt his hands on me -- his fingers!" We looked at him and saw that he was confused, anxious. He returned our looks, concentrating the longest on me. There was a growing apprehension in his face and I suddenly realized Pike and Sully and I had advanced on him. "I do have hands," he said quickly, his voice high and weak. "Look!" A figurine of a cocker spaniel rose off the end table to his left and floated across to Pike. "Take it," Shambolain said. "And shake hands?" Pike hesitated, took the figurine. We could not see anything but we could tell from Pike's expression that Shambolain's invisible hand was shaking Pike's free paw. For three days Shambolain had eaten his soup with a straw and his solids from his plate like a dog. He had hidden his invisible hands. We moved closer to him. I was barely aware that I was walking. "I was afraid you would not understand," he said. "I wanted you to like me." "What are you?" Pike asked, his heavy voice throbbing. "My people have never had arms or hands -- even from earliest times, we had this power with our minds, this ability to manipulate matter. We evolved without hands, don't you see?" He spoke fast, darting glances from one to the other of us, slowly backing away. "There werfe two of us that came here. An expedition. Maybe, if he had survived, I would have been all right. But I needed company. I could never live alone. So I came to you. I want to be liked." IF We moved closer. "The ship," he said, almost breathlessly now. "It could not be repaired, and Harrowmane was dead, squeezed against the dash console by the force of our drop. He didn't have his belt on when the trouble started. I brought it in alone. None of my people will come for at least another thirty years -- it takes that long to make the trip, you see." "You're not a man," Sully said. Pike took up the phrase. "You're not a man." I heard myself muttering. Perhaps I echoed them. "My God," Jenny said, shuddering. She hugged herself, then moved in on him like the cat she resembled. It was Jenny who broke the tableau, who brought out what was boiling beneath the surface of all of us. She struck him with her single hand, struck him again and again about the face. W E descended on him. My eyes seemed to unfocus so that the others were merely blurs of color as they swung and kicked. My own hands seemed to work of their own volition, separate entities that pounded his chest and the concavities of his shoulders. Blood slicked my hands and I wiped them on my trousers, only to swing and slick them red again. I felt his extrasensory hands touching my face, trying to shove me back. I tore at him all the harder, matching the fury of the others. We would surely have killed him if I had not seen myself reflected in his large, dark eyes. I moved in to pummel his face and somehow saw myself reflected in the watery surface of his eyeballs. My lips were contorted, drawn back over my teeth. My eyes were wide, my nostrils flared like those of an animal smelling blood. I do not know how I saw it -- perhaps it was a trick of Shambolain's. But the shock of the picture blasted through my mania and made me sick down into the pit of my stomach. I staggered back, breathing heavily, while the others continued the onslaught. I went back into the frenzy, shouted at them to leave him alone, pulled and tugged to get them away from him. They ignored what I said and twisted away from my hands. They had him in a corner and he was bleeding badly. He seemed even to have stopped using his invisible hands to protect himself. Pike drove a foot into his side. My fury returned -- but was directed against the rest of them this time, not against Shambolain. I struck out, knocked Sully backward. He had been using his teeth on Shambolain; his mouth was bloody, his lips split. I swung on Pike, beat against him, kicked at his swollen shins until he cried out and wobbled back. I wrenched Jenny loose, avoiding the Fingernails on her good hand and got between them and Shambolain. "What the hell are you doing?" she spat. "You're acting like Creeps," I said, almost hysterically. "Please don't act like Creeps!" "He's not a man," Sully said. "He's a monster," Jenny whined, her face contorted almost beyond recognition. "A monster -- " "I don't want him killed," I said. "I don't want us to be like this." "Then get him out of here," Pike said. "You take care of him." I looked at them and realized there was no chance of my staying there. "I'll get my two coats," I said. "And my share of the money. Shambolain's share, too. And his suitcase." I looked them over carefully. "You'll let him alone until I'm ready to leave?" "Hurry," Pike said. I got our things and took what money Jenny gave me from the fund, though it was only a fraction of what Shambolain had brought in from the Street. I found I could not take the suitcase, for I had to carry Shambolain. I took out the hypodermic and the bottle of amber dream fluid and left the rest behind. He could move a little and he helped me get him up, his armless body across my shoulder. We went out to the street, where it had begun to snow again. One of the others slammed the door behind us. flophouse for a dollar and a quarter. The winos in the other beds watched us curiously but none asked any questions or made any remarks. I pulled my bed next to his and wiped most of the blood off his face with wet paper towels brought from the filthy bath at the end of the room. He could talk a little, though his face was swollen and his words distorted. Most of it was delirium muttering anyway. I gave him a syringe full of the amber liquid he had given Della. He soon fell to gentle murmuring, pleased chuckles, and then into sleep. I could not sleep much at all. Bad dreams kept waking me and my gut was bothered by cold chills. The next day, Christmas, I left him and went looking for a place we could make our permanent quarters. I found a basement room -- half bedroom and half kitchen, with bath -- only three blocks from our old home. It was under a drycleaning place and I found that the owner lived above his store. He was angry about having to show it to me on Christmas Day but he took my money and gave me the key just the same. It was a miserable room but it had the advantage of being available. I brought Shambolain back, still carrying him, and put him to bed. He was in pain again, rolling and tossing, breaking open some of the delicate scabs that had formed over IF his wounds. I gave him the last of the amber fluid. When he had settled into a comfortable trance I washed him and treated his wounds with some things I had bought at a drugstore down the block. For the rest of the morning I sat watching him, trying to straighten things out in my mind. I could not forget that I had reacted just like the others. After noon I decided that there was nothing to be gained by watching him in his stupor. I should buy food and more medicines, the staples to set up life here. I checked our money and was depressed at how little Jenny had given me. Christmas was a good begging day, even though there were few Bleeders out, for those who were out al. I put on my coat, took my cup and went outside. I was making a fairly good dent in Bleeder pocketbooks and feeling better than I had since before Jenny took Shambolain to her bed. Then I saw the Creep. He was standing across the street, half a block farther up, mostly hidden in the entranceway to a shoe store. He still wore his gray coat with fur collar. He was watching me. I had no way of knowing how long he had been standing there and I Ml a bubbling of fear in my stomach. My legs grew weak. I tried to ignore him, but that was not possible. At last I dumped the change into my pockets, hooked my cup to my belt and decided to call it a day. I bought groceries and some medicine-cabinet supplies. When I came out of the store the Creep was gone from his post. It was spitting snow. I hurried back to our place. As I unlocked the door, balancing the groceries in one arm, the Creep came down the steps fast, slammed into me, and sent us both sprawling into the basement room. The groceries scattered across the floor. A milk bottle broke. I rolled over, got to my feet. "What the hell are you doing?" The Creep had a knife. He closed the door behind him and turned to look at me. I didn't much like the look in his face. It suggested barely controlled madness. He looked to the bed, to Shambolain. "Who's he?" "A friend," I said. "He's sick. Real sick. Now get the hell out of here." He grinned, strained his lips until it seemed his face would have to split. Then he looked serious. "I want to see the leg," he said. When I told him to go to hell he waved the knife. "Undress. Hurry, please." I started toward him. "You won't use the knife. I know you Creeps," I said. "You're afraid of everything -- and mostly of what's inside your own head." He swung the knife and gouged my right hand. The blood welled up and dripped down on the cement floor where it looked impossibly black. "Undress," he said. He waved the weapon. When I didn't make a move to comply, he came at me, swung his other fist, and knocked me backward. I fell over an old chair, twisting my bum leg painfully. I tried to get up. He pushed me down again, hard. He had gone over the edge; he moved with the oiled smoothness of the mad. It was then that Shambolain threw the empty bottle that had contained the amber dream fluid. It bounced off the Creep's skull and made him stagger back a step or two. When he turned to face Shambolain, the hypodermic syringe struck his neck like an arrow. He yelped, pulled it out and charged the bed. I tried to get up but fell again as a new wave of pain flushed up through my bad leg from the lump of my third foot. The Creep was struggling against Shambolain's extra-sensory hands, choking for air. He tried to pull away, found that the invisible hands could follow him anywhere. He went down on his knees beside Shambolain's bed, gurgling frantically. He fell flat, then pushed himself to his knees again. I saw the knife swing and I cried out to Shambolain. But the thin blade slid into his body, was withdrawn. The Creep swung again, plunged it in again. I got up, found the chair and somehow managed to carry it across the room. When I got there, the Creep was flat on the floor again, the knife fallen from his fingers, still unable to breathe. I supplemented Shambolain's attack with the chair; I brought it up and down, up and down smashing it against the Creep's skull until my arms were too weak to lift it again. But Shambolain was dying. I hovered over him, touching the knife wounds, trying to close them with my fingers. Blood sputtered throuth my fingers. He had red blood. I wondered if Jenny and Pike and Sully had noticed that Shambolain had red blood. I felt his invisible hands on my face. They touched it gently, cupped it, rested on my closed eyes. Then they faded slowly, as if the power to them was being leeched away. At last they were gone completely and Shambolain was dead. I dragged the Creep into the bathroom and cleaned up the blood by the bed. Since Brunhoff was no longer available, I was forced to call the city morgue. When they came I told them Shambolain had been knifed on the Street by some punks. I didn't mention the Creep -- I had plans for him. The next day there was a service at the morgue for Shambolain before they boxed him in .tin and pine and took him away. It was a shodIF dy service. The clerk who read the words chewed gum throughout. They let me ride in the van when they went to the cemetery. They buried seven other paupers besides Shambolain and they buried them all standing up to save space. It seemed important that Shambolain be allowed to lie down in his grave but I couldn't make the burial detail see it that way. We left him standing there, walled in by frozen chunks of earth. That night I dragged the Creep's body out of the bathroom and took it outside. It was three in the morning and there was no chance of my being seen. I dragged him through the alleyways, four blocks until I came to a long row of trash cans behind a restaurant. I found an empty can, put it on its side and worked him into it. I got the can upright again and pushed on the lid. I left him there, squatting in a garbage can behind a cheap restaurant. Since then I have come to realize that it started with the Creep and it ended with the Creep -- and that means something. I saved Shambolain's life when Jenny and Pike and Sully tried to take it; later, he died to save mine. His act was the act of a man. He had felt pain when he was hurt, just like a man, and he had bled when injured. He had touched me as he died, seeking comfort, and that must surely be seen as the act of a human being. What Shambolain knew -- and what the rest of us must learn -- is that the small differences do not matter, that physical variations between men are only what they are. They mean nothing. The danger lies with the Creeps, who somehow have become warped, so that they need differences in human-kind to exploit and feed on. I try to tell this to Jenny and Pike and Sully. I think, perhaps, they are beginning to understand. I heard Jenny crying last night. I've moved back in with them. I cannot justify that to Shambolain. I cannot justify consorting with his would-be killers. But I think he would understand. Like Shambolain, I cannot live alone. I cannot be by myself. That is merely the way of a human being, simply the weakness of a man.  If you had all the time in the world -- could you hang on to it? black for Nicholas Carver would be an exaggeration. At least he had a job and, though finances were still precarious, he found it easy to be cheerful. Just now his only real worry was keeping that job and he disclosed his solution to the other occupants of the "Second breakfast" table -- the only time togetherness came close to working in this family. "I'm going to get me an alarm clock," said Nick, counting his money. Aunt Lorraine said, "You could use mine, only it's set for seven o'clock and I don't like to keep changing it." "I'm getting my own, the windup kind. Electric ain't no good, you know, if the power goes off." "Ain't never been late yet. Why you need an alarm clock anyhow, Nick? You goes to work at four P.M." Lorraine Thompson couldn't disguise the amused tolerance of day-people for those who started late in the day and didn't have to get up early. "I just want to make sure I get there in time," said Nick. "I'm always doing something around the house and I don't always notice what time it is. The other fellows were kidding me yesterday when they had to wait for me to show up." Nick's father put down the newspaper. "How you like your new job now, Nicholas?" "Oh, I don't mind the work. It's the waiting. When a car comes in, rush out and pump gas. Then nothing to do but wait. Not much business late at night." "Don't you have a radio?" asked Aunt Lorraine. "Get tired of radio. Can't sleep either -- that little ping-bell wouldn't wake me. So I just sit there and watch for cars. Gets monotonous sometimes." "All jobs are like that, son," said Harry Carver, the voice of experience. "You'll get a lot of that waiting when you get in the army." Aunt Lorraine cleared the dishes and put them in the sink. "How about robberies, that late?" "I'm not worried," said Nick. "They say just keep the cash box locked and don't give them the key unless they get tough." Aunt Lorraine frowned. "Can't you get day shift? It's a pain, all the different hours in this house. The kids to school by eight and you not home till after midnight." "Two other guys on day shift. They're the ones said I should get an alarm clock. And they're right -- I'm getting one today. Don't want to lose this job." "No, now that we got two working in the family," said Aunt Lorraine, putting on her coat. Harry Carver said quickly, "I'll get a job, don't worry, as soon as there's openings." Aunt Lorraine smiled. "You too touchy. I meant to say, two is a lot in this neighborhood. Bye now." "You're right," said Mr. Carver, turning on the television. Nick left the house quietly. an oasis of plenty in a neighborhood of scarcity. They had everything at reasonable prices if you knew how to buy. There was merchandise that was inexpensive and there was merchandise that was cheap. Nick was an expert at telling the difference. He showed this by lingering a long time at the table where a number of alarm clocks were on display. He handled them all, then he handled them all twice, rejecting each for a different reason. Some were dented, some didn't seem to work and others looked like they might not be reliable. The price was right but was the merchandise? Finally he decided that he would take a chance on one rather like the others except in color -- they were silver gray and it was brown. It looked more sturdy and its ring seemed more melodious. Nick took it to the checkout counter and tendered his dollar ninetyeight. As soon as he reached home he unwrapped the package, sat at the kitchen table, oblivious to the television's flickering and chatter and examined his purchase. Tampering with machinery was a fascinating business to Nick and he barely resisted the urge to take the clock apart. He set the time by Aunt Lorraine's bedroom electric -- just noon -- then proceeded to examine the front and back of the clock. Nick's father turned off the television, put on his coat and hat and announced, "I'm off to the unemployment agency." "Have a good time," said Nick, not looking up. He heard the door slam. Nick was alone. He turned his attention to the clock again. Paradox Clock Company -- he had never heard of it. The usual levers and buttons were on the back of the clock. None were adjustable except "fast" and "slow." He found a smalF screwdriver and poked at the slot, moving the lever slightly, conservatively, toward "fast." He heard a whirring noise. Turning the clock over, he noticed the hands were moving. What was going on? As he watched, the hour hand moved from twelve to one, while the minute hand went all the way around. The effect was startling. He pushed the lever toward "slow." Now he saw the hands weren't moving at all. He couldn't be sure, of course, as he couldn't normally see a clock's hands moving anyway, but he felt the clock had almost stopped. What a sensitive lever, he thought, smiling. He would have to adjust it very carefullyIF He poked the lever to make it go fast again. It was fun to wa#ch the hands go around and around. Now it was after three, by the clock, almost time to go to work. Quickly he stopped it. Now he would have to set it right again. Aunt Lorraine's electric clock's hands stood almost at quarter to four. His new clock and the electric registered almost exactly the same time. Either both were wrong or he must have been dozing. As if to prove the latter theory his father came home. "You still working on that clock?" Nick felt in a daze. "What time is it?" Mr. Carver reached in his coat pocket and pulled out a golf watch, consulted it. "It's about -- three forty-two, give or take ten minutes. Hey, you getter get going -- don't want to be late again." Nick threw on his jacket, grabbed his lunch box and, as he went out, snatched up the clock and jammed it into his pocket. He'd fix it when he got to work -- and he didn't want to leave it around for the kids to fool with when they came home. Walking fast, Nick hurried to the gas station. He wouldn't be late this time, though no thanks to the new alarm clock. H IS two fellow workers greeted him cheerfully. Bill was already in his car and Chester was leaning against the pump. He jumped up in mock surprise when he saw Nick. "Hey, you're on time," he said. "Did you get an alarm clock?" Nick pulled it out of his pocket and showed them. They all laughed, Nick as much as the others. Bill said, "How come you bring it to work, Nick? Want to wake yourself up at quitting time?" Nick said, "No, I got to fix this clock. I just bought it, you know, and it needs adjusting." "Better get it fixed by tomorrow," laughed Chester, as they drove off Nick was busy for a few hours and didn't think of the clock. He repaired the tire Bill and Chester had left him and he greased two cars, but most of the time he was pumping gas. This was a busy time, though not the busiest time of the day. Nick felt proud to be a part of a flourishing business. The gas station was an old-style one, with a single line of pumps, but it was adequate for the needs of the neighborhood. When Nick rushed out, his cheery greeting of "Fill her up?" was as often as not countered with a laconic, "Five, regular." Nevertheless, the cash box did an open-and-shut business all that evening until along about seven, when Nick thought about lunch, or supper. While he was eating lunch in the station building (and watching for customers) he picked up the clock he had left on the table. What was wrong with it anyway? He had never heard of a clock so sensitive that when you set it fast it raced, and when you set it slow -- He hadn't really tested its slowness, yet. He picked up a cotter pin, poked at the lever, set it all the way to "slow." Then he held the clock for a minute, seeing if the hands moved. It got awful quiet all of a sudden, he thought. Just the ticking of the clock. He went on eating his lunch while holding the clock. It didn't move, showed ten after seven for a long time. It had obviously not stopped. It was still ticking away at the regular rate and the ticking seemed louder than ever. He glanced out. Things had quieted down now. Not a moving car was in sight, though he saw one parked in the middle of the street. He guessed the clock was all right, so he pushed the lever back to the center -- he hoped it was in the right place; it seemed to settle there with a click -- and checked the station clock, to see how much time had been lost. None had. The station clock iold the same time as his alarm clock. He put it down and went back to work, muttering to himself. As he worked, washing down the apron, he felt uncertain,, bewildered. How could the clock stop and then catch up, so that it didn't lose time? And if it didn't really stop, how did he manage to finish his lunch in no time at all? Was there something mysterious about the clock? Was it only a bargain clock, not worth the effort to throw it on the junk pile, or was it more than he'd bargained for? When he had time to spare he studied the clock again. Somehow he didn't dare take it apart. If it had strange powers he wouldn't improve them by interfering. But what w;ere its mysterious powers? Could it really stop time and also, judging by his experience that afternooni speed up time? He sighed, shook his head and wound the clock again. It didn't need much winding. He fixed up a cotter pin and attached it so that he could set the lever without having to poke at it. He stopped to answer the bell for a car pulling in and, after serving the customer, went back to the building. He wished he had time to think -- he'd solve this yet. Wished he had time? Nick grinned, turned the pinand-lever to "slow." Then he sighed with satisfaction, leaned back in the hard chair and hugged the clock to him. He found out a lot about the clock in the next two minutes -- which seemed like an hour -- and the following hour -- which seemed like two minutes. He found the effects only worked properly, withIF out impeding his movement, if he held on to the clock with his hands or touched it in some way. Time flies, or stands still -- but only if you hold on tight can you take advantage of it. Once again he watched the hands go around, though not as fast as previously. This was the way to make time go by, when your job was boring. It was nearly dark outside now -- and suddenly he noticed two cars in the driveway. They hadn't been there a moment ago. He turned the lever back to normal, put the clock down and rushed out. One of the cars was just pulling away. He greeted the other man apprehensively. "Fill it up with premium?" he asked, as the car moved up into the other's place. The man looked at Nick with disapproval. "Looks like you lost a customer there. I'd have gone, too, but I need gas -- five, regular. Say, what's eating you? You was there in plain sight, grinning like an idiot. If you was asleep, it wouldn't have looked so bad." Nick apologized. "Five, one forty. Sure sorry I kept you waiting." Nick, back in the building, turned on the lights. Night was coming on fast. He'd have to be more careful with the clock. It was a very valuable thing to have. He was not going to take it back to the store now, no matter what. He pondered the problem, off and on, all evening. Suddenly he had the explanation to the mystery. It was in the color of the clock. All the other clocks on the table at Dixon's were silver gray. Only this one was brown. Army brown. Olive drab, they called it. This was a military clock that had somehow got mixed in with the shipment from the factory, the Paradox Clock Company. This was an Army clock with secret features, secret inventions like speeding up time or slowing it down for military purposes. It was disguised as an ordinary alarm clock. Why would they use alarm clocks in the Army when they had bugles and sergeants' whistles? Well, he supposed officers had them. They'd know about this secret feature. Seems he'd heard of scientists slowing down time, and speeding it up, before. Nothing he wouldn't put past these military scientists. So what was he going to do with the clock? He had got it, fair and square, by mistake. Was he going to turn it back in to the Army? You bet your sweet life he wasn't. He'd be put in jail, just for knowing the secret. If they didn't even know the clock was lost, he wasn't going to tell them it was found. One clock more or less wouldn't mean much to the government. On the other hand, this was an important secret. He was not going to let anybody know about it who wasn't supposed to know. Couldn't be giving military secrets away to unauthorized persons. No, sir! He'd have to be careful. Take the pin out when he wasn't using it. He guessed there could be military uses for the clock -- but what about civilian uses? How many times had he wanted to compress time -- or expand time? Of course he realized he would live the same time inside, whether he speeded up or slowed down time outside. Things would even out if he used the clock wisely. He wouldn't be losing anything -- just exchanging the boring hours for the good hours, play time, sleep time. Even study time -- think what he could learn while he stopped the clock. He supposed other people wouldn't use the clock wisely -- but he wasn't going to misuse it. He looked at it with a new respect. He started to take out the pin, then he put the clock down as a car pulled up. It was nearly eleven o'clock now, what with all his time experiments. There weren't many cars at this hour and he could go home at midnight. T he car was a new Imperial. Two men were in it. One, husky and tall, got out of the car. He seemed nervous. "Fill it, premium?" Nick asked. "Yeah," said the husky man. He leaned on the car window and talked in low tones to the other man, whose lean face was tense. As Nick finished checking the oil and came around with the cloth the husky man said, "Never mind the windows." The lean-faced man muttered, "We can use some change, too." "Yeah," said the man standing outside. "Can't pass that stuff." Nick, after taking away the hose and checking the pump, announced, "Thirteen and six-tenths. That'll be five thirty-five. Cash or credit?" The husky man said, "We prefer cash. Open that box." He produced a gun. Nick sidled away. "The key's inside. I'll get it." He started at a run for the building. "No you don't," said the robber, coming around the car. He pointed the gun at Nick and fired a quick shot, missing, then followed quickly, almost catching up to Nick. Nick dodged, kicked out with one foot, tripping the man. He dove into the station building, scrambled to the table inside. He knew what he was after. The man was still on the ground but had his gun up again to shoot through the doorway. Nick grabbed at the clock on the table, pushed the pin and turned around. The man outside had become motionless, sprawled awkwardly on the cement, elbow and IF arm up, pointing his gun toward Nick. He seemed to move perceptibly, and Nick pushed the pin on the clock as tight as he could. He knew, however, that he couldn't stop time completely. He had not a monwnt to waste. He had had no clear idea of what to do when he had rushed in here except, maybe, to gain time to call for help. But how could he call for help when everybody else would be as motionless as the robbers? He picked up the phone with his right hand (the clock was in his left) and fingered the dial. It turned very stiffly. This wasn't going to work, he thought. He knew as much when he saw the dial was not springing back. He had pulled it all the way around from "operator" and it stuck there at the end. He laid the phone down on the table, looked out at the driveway. The lean-faced man in the car hadn't moved, was still sitting there. The other man was lying just outside the doorway, pointing the gun in the general direction of Nick. Nothing moved -- but then, nothing much moved at this time of night anyway. Nick had no gun. He didn't think it would be a good idea to wrestle the man for his own gun, or try to step over him, because he felt that if he touched the other, he, too, would come alive and Nick would be no match for him in a fight. He had to dispose of both men while the tinless spell was upon them -- that was the only advantage he had. He could expect no help from outside. If he held on to the clock while he struck the men with a wrench or something it might work, but then again it might not. And if they took the clock away from him -- what couldn't criminals do with this invention? He tried to keep out of line with the pointing gun as he searched for something to throw. He held on to the clock with his left hand, pawed frantically about the shelves with his right. Nothing suited until he came upon some boxes of spark plugs. They were knockout weapons in the hands of a good thrower. Carefully, for he knew that he must knock both men before he could let time come back, he sighted and threw. A dozen spark plugs in all he pulled out of their boxes, which drifted away as he emptied them. He threw slowly and delith erately. He put no speed on his pitches -- he knew speed could be added later. He saw that the man on the ground was still pointing his pistol at him. He saw it flame and saw a bullet float toward him, bounce off the clock he was still holding in his left hand. His wrist thumped him in the chest and suddenly everything changed. The world came to life, noises rushed at him -- the breaking of glass, the echo of a shot, the crashing of ricocheting missiles. Then he heard the whirr of the phone dial and a voice that said, "Operator." Nick dazedly picked up the phone, and said, "Give me the police. They's robbing the gas station at Ninth and Castle." He looked out at the silent figures on the ground and in the car. "That is, they was robbing it." N ick saw his father in the crowd and waved to him. His father came to grasp his hand warmly. "Glad to see you're all right, Nicholas. We heard the shots and sirens and I thought I'd better come and see what's happening over here." A policeman came over with a notebook, spoke to Nick. "Well, Mr. Carver, you've some more credit coming to you. It's a stolen car recovery, too." He turned to the older Carver. "This your son? He's done a fine job, aved us a lot of trouble with those two jewel thieves. Those men were killers. But I'm afraid he's in a little trouble, too. He won't say what he did with the spring-gun he had." Harry Carver said, "He didn't have no spring-gun. He's a lawabiding citizen." "Well, it's a cinch he didn't throw those spark plugs," said the policeman. "Drilled them clean. One made a big hole in the car." "He's never been in trouble, never. He's a good boy." "Well, all right," said the officer. "But I'll have to put it in my report, and there might be questions, later. Anyway, you've done us a favor and we appreciate it. But, get rid of that spring-gun, will you?" His father said, "What happened to that alarm clock?" Nick noticed it was still in his left hand, battered into shapelessness. "Looks like it was hit by a bullet," said the policeman. Nick said, "It's junk now -- " and tossed it into a nearby trash container. A safe disposal, in full view of the authorities. He sighed. Perhaps the clock saved his life. Bullets were still pretty fast -- even in slow motion.  A mouse has already been saved from leukemia. Help us save a man. But sympathy can't cure leukemia. Money can. Give us enough of that, and maybe we'll be able to do for a man what has already been done for a mouse. American Cancer Society I T hat was the greatest weapon in Valentine Michael Smith's arsenal... a secret that made him irresistible to women but a bitterly hated enemy to the establishment. And all he wanted to do was reform an immoral, troubled world by bringing it peace and tranquility. Some reform! Some revolution! But that's why Robert Heinlein's bestcoming the number one underground novel on virtually every college campus in the country. Now take it, if you wish, as one of your # introductory books for only I with trial membership. Send no money-mail coupon today! The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to take Any # when you join and agree to accept only four books during the coming year. for only  Out of This World 'ou are invited to explore the ireath-taking world of Sciince Fiction now, under this rial offer. Take any # volimes on this page worth up # # in original pubishers' editions for only il.OO with trial membership. Each month new club selecions of fiction and fact are lescribed to you in advance. Entertainment Though these volumes sell for #, # or more in original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping and handling. (You may choose an extra value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept four books during the coming year. Cancel anytime thereafter. #. I Sim The Body Electric, by Ray Brad# pieces of fanfiction. Bradbury's first collection in # years. Pub. ed. # #. Beyond tho Beyond, by Poul Anderson. # novellas by Hugo Award Winner. About scientists, pirates. "loners." #. Neanderthal Planet, new by Brian W. Aldiss. # novella gems. Never before published in U.S.! Shrewd, witty, and ingenious. n Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me # plus a modest shipping and handling charge for all three. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin, Things to Come which describes coming selections. If I do not wish to receive the monthly selection or prefer an alternate. I simply give instructions on the form provided. For each book I accept. I pay #, plus shipping and handling. Occasional extra-value selections are priced slightly higher. I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign any time thereafter. ductory package. I may return it in # days and membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing. C Print Name Address #. A Princtst of Mars, by Edgar Rice Burroughs. One of E.R. Burroughs' most famous tales. Ulus, by Frank Frazetta. #. #: A Space Odyssey, by Arthur Clarke. # men and computer trigger cosmic "booby trap " Pub. ed # #. The Left Hand of Darkness, by Ursula K. LeGuin. Finding love -- in a 'Unisex " world! Nebula award winner. Pub. ed. # City State Zip If under #. parent must sign here ' #S#J #. Nightfall and Other Stories, by Isaac Asimov. # probing tales by this bestselling science fiction author. Pub. ed. # #. Three for Tomorrow. Novellas by Silverberg, Zelazny. Blish. Foreword by Arthur C. Clarke. Pub. ed. # #tS. Dangerous Visions. Anthology of # original stories never before in print by Sturgeon, Anderson, others. P'lb. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in sire, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in Canada. Printsd in U.S.A.  Ben Bova Robert Sheckley Algis Budrys Robert Silverberg Avram Davidson Henry Slesar Samuel R. Delany Theodore Sturgeon JoeLHensley A.E.VanVogt Keith Laumer Roger Zelazny TO BE I  # rrrrrffrff No matter how many books you've read, you have never read a book like this one. The first book of collaborative short stories ever created, it is unique in publishing history. Winner of four Hugos, two Nebulas and two Writers Guild of America awards for Most Outstanding Teleplay in science fiction, Harlan Ellison has become one of the strongest voices in the drive to promulgate speculative fiction as a viable mythliterature for our times. price of # each. I enclose payment in full and understand that you will pay all shipping and handling charges. AnnRF.s January-February, #I Vol. #, No. # Issue # tllr Jakobsson, Iditor frdrik fohl. Editor Emoritus Judy-lynn Bonjamin, Managing Editor Lostor dol Roy, foaturo Editor #. C. Murphy, Circulation Diroctor Franc #. Roggori, Art Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Diroctor tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #i per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights, reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Readers write -- and wrong! Dear Mr. Jakobsson: May I firstly congratulate you on the quality of the 'new' IF -- and secondly express you my deepest sympathy in your valiant struggle to placate that many-headed Hydra commonly known as your reading public. Seriously, considering the enormous variety in literary tastes, the fact that  can ' personally enjoy so many stories in your magazine, 'issue after issue, never fails to astonish me. Nor can  imagine how you do it, unless perhaps you paper the walls of your office with submitted manuscripts and thereafter at random throw darts at them. In which case, though, the laws of chance must be rather more peculiar than we suspect them to be. (As a small example of how nearly impossible your task must be, perhaps  may mention a letter by Mr. Scher in your September-October issue, where he writes of his general liking for Laumer but confesses himself "sick' of Retief For my part, I would wholeheartedly endorse the first half of his statement, but thereafter would have to add that  enjoy the Retief Saga as much as anything Laumer has ever written. Possibly this difference of opinion may be simply due to the fact that I may be rather older than Mr. Scher, and hence at times like to lean back in my easy-chair and let myself be amused by a good-natured spoof of human foibles. This may well be somewhat cowardly, but the fact is that when the cold wind of middle-age starts blowing up your spine you do like, now and then at least, and for a short while, to forget the serious side of life.) Incidentally, speaking of letters, the same issue of IF also carried an impressively thoughtful communication by Mr. Carroll, considering the creation ofjhink-tanks and dotanks, whereby people genuinely concerned about the future of our race might in a common effort strive to shape it closer to their hopes and dreams. I do not know whether the majority of your readers, are aware of it, but such a movement is currently getting under way, on an international basis. Gerald Feinberg of Columbia University some # months ago through a book of the selfsame title. ( To those of your readers who may have at least as much interest in hard science as in science fiction. Dr. Feinberg may be rather better known as one of today s most distinguished young American physicists, and the propounder of the hypothesis that there may indeed exist particles faster than light, the socalled Uachyons, meaning, in Greek, the  swift ones. Startling, if not downright revolutionary, as the suggestion may appear to be it is seriously considered by theoretical physicists. See for example this years March issue of Science: Particles that travel faster than light? The article is by professor Roger G. Newton of Indiana University.) IF The drive behind the Prometheus Project is much along the lines of Ar. CarrolTs arguments, and has been very succinctly expressed by Loren Eiseley (though he was not writing about the project at that time):  Men, unknowingly, and whether for good or ill, appear to be making their last decisions about human destiny , " Commenting directly on the Prometheus Project, Frederick Pohl described it as "the only game in town.' Clearly, this is not the place to go into details, and  have taken enough of your space anyway, but may I conclude by saying that I would be personally very happy to hear from any of your readers in California, or for that matter anywhere else, who share the disturbing conviction that the time is beginning to run out for mankind. That ours is an age of crisis is as trite an observation as one can make. The one question which remains to be answered, though, is whether our race shall prove equal to the challenge and enter a new day of virtually inconceivable triumphs -- or fail and perish in the night that is falling upon all of us. May I last express the hope that there will be enough men and women of .courage and imagination sufficiently great so that the, so far, twoEarth will not dismiss humanity in a mere footnote as an unsuccessful, if interesting, experiment. Sid Krupicka Riverside, California # Dear Sir: August Alexei Panshin pointed out that there is no real, working definition of science fiction. He further remarked that this was due to an unreasoning desire to cling to Hugo Gernsback's definition of scientifiction. At any rate the stumbling block was the attempt to fit the concept of science into the product (how much sciience does Harlan Ellison have?) The most part of the speech was occupied by pointing out how impossible this definition was even in the time it was formulated -- by simply reading parts from various pulps of the day. While there are adherents to the science of science fiction 'Dune, The Land Ironcladsj for the most part  felt Mr. Panshin was correct. To that end I evolved Vogel's Law -- "Science fiction is that branch of fiction dealing with events of extremely low probability in Earth's present and j or past, with possible events in Earth's future or with events in other environments" Thinking it over  realized that if Damon Knight exists then someone has either beaten me to this or I am blind to its glaring faults. On either hand I would appreciate any help you could give me. Thanks P.H. Vogel I would jump you on that "low probability." Probability can be low or high, depending on what the author wishes to put across. Or the author may simply use sf to tell a story that could not be told in another medium or that can best be told as sf. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Ballots and Bandits by Laumer is the (Please turn to page #) the short-winged shuttle planet. Its meteor-pocked surface skimmed through the man-made would be glittering with thouatmosphere high above the instasands of crater-ponds like new planet's rain-filled meteoritic eracoins. Air-drops had planted fish in ters, someone fell out. them. But for some reason all of Or so it appeared on the lumithe villages still crowded around  nescent screen in the dark stone this vast polluted lake, where the hut -- like a falling spark, falling little volcanic island muddied the like a shriek. The young bodyclouds with smoke. The spark was guard stared at it with surprise approaching the island, which plunged through horror to "He's falling through the air too excitement. fast, getting too hot -- " the bodyFalling below the shuttle's radarguard's snub nose and broad foreblip, the spark seemed big to be a head wrinkled -- "unless he's in an man. It was as if his arms and legs escape bag with an ablative footwere spread in the thickening air cone." and he were resisting the inevitable. From the bottom of the screen "Is he conscious?" cried the old rose the volcano's image. The man's voice in the hut. bodyguard's heart pounded. One "Maybe if he had time to close of his greatest desires was to enter his helmet -- " its smoldering crater and search The bodyguard's boyish face befor the forbidden weapons The old men were fighting an ancient war -- while the boy was inventing a new one! "No parachute has opened," he breathed as the spark faded into the radar-confusing smoke, "so I guess he wasn't in an escape bag. But whatever he was in made an awful big blip on the screen." His youthful gestures were lightningquick. "Look, now the shuttle is following its usual landing spiral back toward our end of the lake, so it couldn't have been the pilot who fell out." Another gust of rain lashed throilgh the crevices in the crude stone hut. "It must have been Henrydavid," the old man moaned, leaning forward until his jagged face was silhouetted against the screen. His bodyguard looked away in embarrassment at the rough stone wall that was weeping rain. The bodyguard fidgeted. To him the old man had long seemed a source of power. It was power too unsubstantial to be grasped. "The world turns -- " the old man murmured. "Do you think this is another attempt by those unforgiving Centralist exiles?" "More likely an accident in the shuttle," his bodyguard said, "but you'd better go back to the village." The young man took a deep breath. "I'll paddfe out to meet the shuttle." "No," the old man said uncertainly. "No -- " guard darted out under the smoky sunlight-edged clouds. He was uncomfortably short, but no one taunted him any more. He had wide shoulders. After his strange battle on that volcanic island, he'd been asked by the old man to be his bodyguard. And he had agreed because he was restless, born restless. He wanted to be near power. As a small boy he bad dreamed of becoming so big he filled the universe with his power. Now, as he looked up at the rainbow-arched sky, he felt tall. He imagined Henrydavid, not falling through the air but standing lithely again inside the shuttle while it clung to a synchronously orbiting freighter. Aluminumshelled supply containers as big as caskets were being shoved in through the flexible iris that was its hatch. Henrydavid's job as customs inspector was to open them immediately. With mixed emotions, the bodyguard frowned. These old men were still trying to prevent Centralist propaganda from reaching the instaplanet via the shuttle. But certain young men here... "We'll both go out to meet it," the old man said, lifting the other end of the heavy greenish canoe. The bodyguard had shaped it by hand-pressing layers of filamentous algae over the hull of an earlier canoe. When it had firmed, he had smeared it with fish oil and dutifully baked it in the sunlight. IF Then he had cheated a little and also baked it in his village's hydrogen fusion-powered electric oven. The wooden paddles were imported from Earth. While the crude canoe sloshed out on the immense lake the water became lively with raindrops and minnows. He had been taught that the lake and the countless crater-ponds had been filled by the Great Rain ten years before he was born here. Before that the supersaturated air for this instaplanet had been produced by remolecularizing the rocks from both poles. After the air became sweet and the rains diminished, the planet had been planted with life. The old man and his followers were delivered to it as an experiment. Economic or philosophic? The bodyguard wondered what kind of world it would become. Now the greenish lake was swirling with great fish devouring each other in richly putrefying jungles of algae. But the land had remained barren rock, as clean and simple as the Decentralist ideal. In the bow of the canoe the old man's slender back and arms' moved his paddle with quiet grace. In the stern the young bodyguard paddled with driving force and steered as the huge shuttle taxied toward them, pushing a mustache of foam. For the bodyguard the shuttle carried the exciting power of Earth, where he wanted to go. Its heat-stained hull contained beautiful steel tools, bright mirrors, colorful beads. He had heard fabulous tales of Earth weapons with wonderful thunder-andlightning power which could be held in a boy's hand. He had decided the shuttle to the freighters was the one contact with Earth which must never be broken, no matter what the old man preached. "Now it's killed someone," the old man blurted as the shuttle's scarred hull surged threateningly close to the canoe. But his bodyguard smiled with excitement. The shuttle contained power that could be grasped. Already concealed in his kirtle of woven algae was his most wonderful possession, a steel dagger smuggled from Earth. If the old man had known he would have told him to throw it overboard, because it was a weapon, as was any knife more than three inches long. The old man would have said, "Weapons lead to uncontrollable power, to Centralism. Beware." The bodyguard scowled at the straight old back as the canoe drifted alongside the shuttle. Respectful people in the villages still addressed the old man as Mr. Decentralist and some had shortened this to Mr. Decent. But restless young men laughed bitterly. It was their fathers who had brought Decentralism to this instaplanet. The young men paced the barren rocks and looked out at the volcanic island, remembering Big Village before its fall. They stared at the forbidden island, dreaming oif anotlier central city, and cursed the old man behind his back. T he bodyguard laid down his paddle and picked up his trident fish spear. His clumsy algal canoe bumped the marvelously complex shuttle. Without its usual hiss of equalizing air pressure, the shuttle's hatch opened like a cameraeye. Its inner iris looked rubbery. The pilot's oddly blank face protruded. "It wasn't my fault." The shiny arm of his metalized suit flew up. "Your customs inspector was blown out like that! The valve popped off our emergency air tank and air pressure did the rest. I always said that valve was dangerous. It was poorly designed." Or sabotaged, the bodyguard thought as he scrambled into the shuttle. This downtrip there seemed to be no unannounced passengers. He eyed the rows of long aluminum supply containers, which they received from Earth in exchange for their little bottles of fish-gland extracts. Whenever he had entered the shuttle, it had had this fishy smell. "So the air pressure shot up in here," the pilot kept explaining. His jowls quivered and the young bodyguard remembered Mr. Decentralist's warning that such stocky or obese men were apt to be unfaithful to Decentralist ideals. It was true that the most dedicated Decentralists, who lived with austerity and simplicity, had naturally narrow physiques like Mr. Decent's. The bodyguard's wide-cheeked face grimaced, then scowled again. He didn't trust the pilot. The pilot blustered: "I always said this loading iris is too flexible. All that pressure bulged it out, blew him out." "Did Henrydavid have time," Mr. Decentralist murmured hopelessly, "to close his helmet visor?" "Don't know. I had to hang on to the control panel." The pilot shifted his gaze from the old man's jagged face to the bodyguard's blunt expression of disbelief. "Why," the bodyguard challenged, "weren't any of these containers blown out with him?" "Because he'd already inspected them and strapped them down again," the pilot answered, "for landing as usual. Anyway, they're too streamlined to be sucked out." The bodyguard felt outsmarted. He quibbled. "This one isn't strapped tight." He knew the customs inspector had been a conscientious man who would have tightened the strap if he'd had time. He deliberately pointed his fish spear, which was defined as a tool, not a weapon, toward the pilot's abdomen. "Did IF Henrydavid have time to open all the containers?" "Yes, he always does -- open them," the pilot blurted and looked to Mr. Decent. "I feel bad about this." "I think we'd better inspect them again," the bodyguard said. "Not now," replied Mr. Decent. "We've got to search for Henrydavid." The bodyguard, blinked with surprise. The pilot also stared at Mr. Decent. "We wouldn't be able to find anything," the pilot explained... "The shuttle was moving so fast when he was blown out, his descent speed was so great that his body was burned in the atmosphere." The bodyguard looked at the emergency rack's twelve cubicles where the glittering, heat-reflective escape bags lay. Their "feet" were ablative cones for casting off flame as they penetrated the atmosphere. Their "heads" were two-stage parachutes. All twelve were still in the rack. No bags were missing. The bodyguard scowled, feeling baffled. "He wasn't falling that fast," he argued. "In his safety suit like yours his body wouldn't -- bum -- very much." "You don't understand anything," the pilot retorted, "about atmospheric entry speed. It would have burned him -- to a crisp." "You're the expert," Mr. Decent murmured to the pilot, "but I know we must recover his body." "It was burned to ashes," the pilot insisted and added too gently: "He often said he'd want to go this way, with his ashes scattered over the lake he loved so well. There's no use searching for his ashes. He would have wanted it this way." E nough Ues, the bodyguard thought, now convinced that the shuttle's speed had been reduced by the time Henrydavid was "blown out." The body couldn't have burned to ashes. But he didn't want to look for it either. He wondered if this "accident" were a decoy or a trap. But he was so angry he said, "I know his suit will have preserved most of his body. We should start searching near the island." "Near Big Village?" the pilot protested. "For his ashes?" "Yes, in the water around the volcano," the bodyguard replied, observing the pilot's unhappy face. "Did you know we were watching the radar screen when it happened?" The pilot glanced at Mr. Decent. "It would be too dangerous for you -- for anyone -- to go over there in a canoe." "Too slow," the old man said enigmatically. And then his voice broke: "Henrydavid . may be alive -- floating -- browning -- " "He means rush us over there in this shuttle' the bodyguard said. The pilot began to protest: "Using a space shuttle like a canoe -- " The bodyguard snorted. "That's what we've always used it for when no freighters have been in orGurgling, the shuttle refilled its water tanks. It was frequently employed to distribute supplies to other villages along the lake shore. only to the first mark." The bodyguard had ridden in the craft several times and knew it merely needed steam now, not disassociated hydrogeti and oxygen flaring and hurling the shuttle into space, where he'd only been as far as the freighter orbit. "We're only going around Volcano Island." A humming sound came from the shuttle's bowels, where the magnetic bottle, containing its hydrogen fusion, produced heat. There was hissing as the water turned to steam and a roar from the dual-purpose thruster as the shuttle surged across the wide lake, steam billowing behind its highfinned tail. "Look at that little canoe over there," the bodyguard shouted, surprised and suspicious because it seemed to be headed toward the forbidden island. Its paddlers noticed the shuttle's course and, as if they had guilty consciences, turned back to the mainland. The volcanic cone squatted on the contorted rim of a halfdrowned meteoric crater. The bodyguard knew this lone volcano had burst from a crack while the planet was being distorted by the remolecularization of rock from its poles. The crater had cooled while he had been a little boy. But smoke rose from a recent split in its flank. The main reason people with Centralist tendencies had established a village beside the cone, upon the meteoric rim which enclosed the harbor, was to tap the volcano's heat for use in illegal manu facturing. They had begun making metal forks and spoons -- and sharper things that the bodyguard secretly wished he could own. Daggers. Ever more powerful weapons. isfied, he thought, and now their village was deserted. Wonderful things had been thrown into the lake. His visualization of those beautiful lost weapons made his heart pound with desire. He wanted again, on this errand, to search the crater for unfinished weapons but the old man was along. The bodyguard glared toward the mainland. "There's another canoe," the bodyguard shouted harshly. "See, from that new village -- a long dark canoe?" IF And it didn't seem intimidated by the shuttle. The bodyguard thought it might be headed for the island -- or its dozen paddlers might simply be loyal Decentralists going fishing. He remembered that some of the Centralists had been dispersed along the shore adjacent to the new village after Mr. Decent had ordered the volcanic island evacuated. While the shuttle cruised around it, the bodyguard watched for telltale gulls, but there was no sign of the customs inspector's body. "Go into the harobr," Mr. Decentralist said unexpectedly. The bodyguard's heart thudded as they entered the harbor's rocky jaws. Big Village clung to the cliffs, deathly silent, its empty-eyed stone huts staring at him. He felt both guilt and pride and clutched his fish spear as if it were -- a weapon. It was here he had shown he was a -- man. A gull fluttered from the water, but it had been feeding on a big dead fish. The bodyguard knew the volcanic cone above Big Village had polluted its harbor even more than its air. He winced and felt nostalgia, remembering Big Village that final day when it had been alive with runaway girls singing and illegal forges clanging. He had been a youth in the angry armada of paddlers from the little villages who had cautiously approached this Centralist stronghold. He had felt awe and envy when he had seen how rich and populous Big Village had become. There were more than two hundred huts. Centralists had crowded the stone dock. His heart had leaped when he had seen they had already manufactured three of the Supreme Weapons. All three had glinted in the sunlight. Now he scowled, peering down at the dark, deep water of the harbor. But Mr. Decent's voice was crying: "Look up there." A blade of sunlight illuminated a tiny red stain on the volcano's flank, high above the dead village and the old man was moaning: "Henry, Henry -- " The bodyguard realized this was where their falling customs inspector had struck the planet like a meteorite. His gaze rose to the lip of the crater and he tried to suppress his desire to enter it. This wasn't a good time, although the rim was only a few minutes climb above the red splash of Henrydavid. "I've got to go up," Mr. Decent bleated. "Henry, oh, Henry -- " The bodyguard began to argue that it was forbidden to land on the island. "You made the rule. Anyway this may be a trap." But the distraught old man ordered the pilot to bring the shuttle alongside the algae-shrouded stone dock. "That canoe may get here soon," the bodyguard warned. "They may be coming because they saw him fall." But there was no use arguing with the old man and, unless the wind changed so that the paddlers could open their sailing umbrellas, the bodyguard knew the canoe couldn't get here for at least an hour. He started to follow the old man on to the dock. His own desire rose. He slipped. Algae had grown where there had been bfood, he realized, and he recovered his natural alertness. He jumped back aboard the shuttle before it could escape. His fish spear backed the pilot toward one of the aluminum containers. "Open it. Now dump out those pamphlets. Pamphlets? Anyway get in. You won't smother. The lid doesn't fit that well." He tightened the straps. "Don't go away," he said, clambering out on the shuttle's deck. He made it fast to a stone cleat on the dock. H e ran after the old man, through the crumbling village of memories. When the armada had approached it Big Village had illegally contained at least a thousand people, although the maximum permissible size for a community on this instaplanet was a hundred. It was a fabulous place, and young runaways had flocked to it. He remembered smiling with excitement rather than fear, even when he had seen its three supreme weapons gleaming. Mr. Decent had boldly landed on the dock to negotiate or accuse. "You've already taken away the nuc-boxes from five villages, depriving them of electricity." "You old hypocrite," the mayor of the Big Village had retorted. "You complain about us taking their electricity, but you've been urging them to decentralize into tens -- or families to live without electricity. Look, we have so many people here who need it, we ought to have ten electric-boxes, not five. Listen, Earth sends a box to this planet for each hundred people, so we have the right to proportional allocation of electric power. We ought to have ten boxes." "No. You're rebuilding all the confusion and greed we tried to leave behind on Earth," the old man had shouted. "You're even manufacturing inhuman weapons." All three glinted sharply in: the sunlight. Mr. Decentralist had rashly grabbed at one. When he had fallen down during the scuffle, his shrill Decentralists had begun scrambling from their canoes to the dock, thrusting out their fishing spears like weapons. "Defense," the mayor had yelled over his shoulder and the three holders of the supreme weapons had waddled forward, deflecting fish-spears with their aluminum shields and raising their beautiful steel weapons. IF As their blades flashed in the sunlight the future bodyguard's heart had pounded with desire instead of fear even as the centralists attacked. They struck off hands and arms and heads in a frantic display of power. Instead of fleeing, he had circled. ' A Centralist had slipped on the blood and fallen, his supreme weapon clanging against the stones. The future bodyguard had rushed forward and wrested away the sword. Now it's mine, he had thought excitedly, gripping its hilt. The second swordsman had waddled toward him. He had dodged the thrust. These three supreme weapons were so valuable that thjy had been carried by three of the most important men in Big Village, fat,jmiddle-aged men. With youthful quickness the bodyguard-to-be had swung his great blade back and forth. It had Struck his opponent's neck. Now that he had the knack of it the bodyguard-to- had rushed at the third middle-aged man. Around him the excited Decentralists had attacked with their fish spears. Blood sprayed. The Big Villagers had scattered, ending the strangely abrupt battle and beginning the problem of what to do with so many defeated people who were still Centralists at heart. Now, as the bodyguard ran upward through the empty village after the old man, he thought the wind might be changing. The long canoe could be approaching rapidly. It might be filled with Centralist renegades, returning. On the side of the volcano he saw Mr. Decent kneel in the great red splash. The old man seemed to be murmuring to a fragment of Henrydavid's safetysuit. He was picking it up. The bodyguard climbed past, hurrying to reach the top to spot the canoe over there -- and for another reason. F rom the rim of the volcano he looked out over the immense wind-wrinkled lake and the lonely land beyond, glittering with countless crater-ponds, where the old man wanted people to spread out in smaller groups in an ever simpler way of life. The bodyguard smiled and shook his head. The long dark canoe was still a long way off. Whether it contained faithful Decentralist fishermen or unrepentant Centralist rebels, they were still paddling against the wind. His heart leaped. He might have time to search the crater. He peered down into the darkly jumbled funnel and his heart pounded as it had when he had seized the sword in the Battle of Big Village. The greatest disappointment of his life had come after the fighting, when the old man had honored him by choosing him as his new bodyguard and then toid him to throw all three swords into the lake. The bodyguard had secretly returned later and dredged for them, cursing and crying because he had stupidly thrown away their power. No unfinished swords had been found in Big Village and he thought the illegal weapons forge might have been concealed in this crater. As he descended, his snub nose wrinkled at the sulphurous strench. He searched under lava ledges for even an unfinishedswdrd, which could give him power to -- Mis eyes widened. At the bottom, beside a vertical split where steaming rainwater drained out of the crater, he saw something white and rumpled. He clutched his fish spear like a weapon and clambered down, sending rocks rattling. His eyes widened. The whiteness was a folded parachute partially covering an escape bag. Except for its ablative foot cone, the bag lay flat.' It was a different model from the twelve in the shuttle. He could see it was empty. No one was on the nearby rocks. The bag was open. He thought the inspector must have fallen out -- but why would he have been in an escape bag descending into the crater? Anyone peering through the bag's periscope could have steered its chute toward the volcano. Any man could have been breathing from its oxygen tank. The bodyguard didn't think Henrydavid would have had a reason to ride down in an escape bag. He clutched his spear and looked around quickly, but no one was crouching in ambush among the rocks. "Don't move," a hoarse voice said and the parachute cloth squirmed. A swollen-faced, middle-aged man had been lying motionless underneath it. A gleaming metal rod with a round hole in its end was pointing out at the bodyguard. The man sat up. "Throw away your spear -- that's right." The bodyguard's heart was again drumming with excitementrather than fear as he stared at tHis absolutely ultimate weapon which could change life on his instaplanet. Its barrel and folding stock were gleaming with the promise of power. One of the man's hands gripped its long bullet clip. The other enclosed its trigger mechanism. The bodyguard shivered with desire because he wanted the weapon more than anything in the universe. "Stop smiling," the man's voice shrilled as if he were in great pain. "Who are you?" "A fisherman," the bodyguard finally answered, surprised the man hadn't recognized him from the Battle of Big Village or its aftermath. "I just climbed here to -- " IF "Don't move. I'll shoot." The parachutist's blotchy face grimaced, smiled, then looked disappointed. "Don't you know who I am?" "No," the bodyguard lied, his thoughts racing between the future and the past. scheme by which this exiled mayor of Big Village had hoped to reenter the instaplanet undetected. The falling spark on the radar screen -- anyone familiar with the operation of the shuttle would have reasoned it to be the Customs Inspector falling all alone because of some accident? But Henrydavid had not fallen alone. The pilot had been part of the conspiracy, the fat-faced pilot -- The bodyguard imagined the scene inside the shuttle, among the containers from the freighter. The pilot must have struck Henrydavid on the head. Then this blotchyfaced man had emerged from a container and dragged out his special escape bag from another. He would have tied Henrydavid's body to the outside of this bag, using one of its parachute control lines and a slip-knot. After arranging the bag against the hatch iris the Centralist ex-mayor must have sealed himself inside it and waited. The bodyguard's eyes widened in admiration. When the shuttle had approached the smoke from the volcanic island the pilot must have knocked the valve off the reserve air tank. The sudden increase in air pressure had blown the flexible iris outward and the escape bag had hurtled into space, falling diagonally toward the island and appearing on their radar screen as a single spark. No wonder it had seemed surprisingly large to represent one man. The bodyguard smiled at this fabulous ex-mayor who must have yanked the extra control line at the last moment, freeing himself from the weight of Henrydavid's body as the escape bag vanished into the radar-confusing smoke. He had deployed the drogue chute. After his main chute opened, he had skillfully steered it to his island, disappearing into the volcanic crater. The bodyguard's smile became a grin because, in landing down here, the man seemed to have broken his leg. "Let me help you -- to climb out of here." "Keep away." The gun barrel rose. The Centralist's thick body shifted and his face contorted in pain. His left leg had an unusual bend in it. T he bodyguard nodded obediently, waiting his chance. His gaze devoured the beautiful gun, the first he had ever seen except in smuggled pictures. "Is it called a sub-machine gun?" "You don't even know who I am," the middle-aged man exclaimed angrily. "You don't know what to do." The bodyguard considered the dagger concealed in his kirtle and said, "Let me help or you'll die down here." He thought whipping out his dagger would take too long. He'd better grab at the gun. "Look, there's blood leaking where you opened that leg-zip on your suit. A compound fracture?" "Stay back," the man rasped. "I don't need you. Others are coming to this island to meet me." "In canoes?" The bodyguard feigned surprise. He doubted the man could have seen that long canoe through his periscope while his bag was descending. "There aren't any canoes out there -- except mine. So you need my help. I've always wanted the good things they have on Earth. I wish I'd been born there -- with all the autocars and television boxes, and great cities -- " While he tried to sound like a Centralist, his voice grew so convincing that what he said became true. He realized how much he wanted what the Centralists wanted, and he watched that beautiful gun barrel lowering as the parachutist's arms relaxed. In a little while he would have an opportunity to grab this wonderful submachinegun, the ultimate weapon on the instaplanet. Rocks rattled behind him. He whirled. Up there a half-naked, scrawny figure was clambering down from the rim. "Who's that?" the parachutist hissed. "Another fisherman," the bodyguard lied hopelessly. "Wave to him to come down." Evidently the Centralist thought he might need two to carry him up. "He already is coming," the bodyguard gritted, wishing that old man would see the gun and run. Mr. Decent had upset his plan before he could execute it. He had intended to hide the sub-machinegun after taking care of the parachutist -- and to return for it later. But Mr. Decent must ee the gun by now and eventuy he would tell his bodyguard drop it into the lake. The bodyguard scowled. The old man was scrambling down clutching a Woody scrap of cloth as if it were all that was left of Henrydavid.  "You!" "You! Don't come any closer." The parachutist's aifli shifted between the bodyguard and the old Decentralist. "I'll shoot you, you old hypocrite." "You agreed not to return," Mr. Decent wheezed as the wind wailed above the crater. "Why are you here?" High above the old man's jagged face volcanic smoke writhed across the sky and the bodyguard realized the wind had changed. In their long canoe the fishermen who might be Centralists would be opening their sailing umbrellas. Their dark canoe would be surging toward the island. The bodyguard's young, wide, muscular body felt as if it were swelling. He couldn't wait much longer. While he watched for a chance to leap at the gun, he felt as strong and quick as when he had dodged those sword thrusts. He supposed a bullet wouldn't be much faster than a sword and it was such a little thing. The round eye of the gun muzzle stared at him. "Move back," the parachutist hissed. "Closer to Mr. -- Decentralist." The bodyguard smiled and didn't cent not to remark that a long canoe was coming. The parachutist would assume it carried the Centralist activists who were supposed to meet him. He would feel free to squeeze the trigger, shooting the old man. But the bodyguard couldn't conceive of himself being killed and leaned toward the Centralist leader, waiting for his opportunity. "You can't become mayor of an empty village," Mr. Decent's voice bargained. "I let you go before. I'll let you go back to Earth again." "Hypocrite!" the ex-mayor cried. "You talked of peace and individual freedom but led the attack on Big Village. It would have been kinder if you'd executed me then. This is my island. Where are my people now?" "Dispersed," the old man retorted. "Enjoying pure and simple lives again." "He's a fanatic," the Centralist hissed frantically to the bodyguard, "a fanatic old man. He thinks a hundred people are too many for a village. He wants to disperse families, one to a pond -- and after that what?" "Transcendant freedom," the old man replied "to contemplate." "Freedom to isolate yourself beside a pond," the Centralist cried, "on a bare planet and think about what? You hypocrite, already in your little villages there's no freedom for young people to do what they want to do, which is to get together and -- " "They're growing up unspoiled." Mr. Decent look to his young bodyguard, who realized that both of them, the old man and the middle-aged ntan, the Decentralist and the Centralist were speaking to him rather than to each other. ,  "This old man is trying to be mental jailer for you young people. Listen!" The parachutist obviously wanted his help and allegiance. "Listen -- " E ach seemed to be trying to win him, to use him, as if he represented all of the young people on the planet, its future. The Centralist insisted: "It's IF this old man's fault your instaplanet is tied to an unfair economic plan. That damned plan for economic decentralization was written by bureaucrats on Earth for the benefit of Earth. That's why we weren't allowed to manufacture anything. That's why villages were limited to a hundred people. In that inhuman plan all we're supposed to do is catch Fish and send their glandular extracts to Earth. Listen, unless we centralize, our instaplanets' unfavorable balance of trade will keep us poor colonial slaves." "Who needs trade?" the old man retorted. "Good Decentralists are learning to do without Earth's corrupting products. We have fish and health-giving , algae. We can weave kirtles and build stone shelters. We can become free of Earth trash. We don't need that accursed shuttle any more. We don't have to rely on Earth. "That's right," the Centralist interrupted and smiled at the young man. "When we Jiave a great industrial city we won't have to rely as much on Earth. We can enjoy -- " " -- polluting our lives!" the Decentralist shouted. "We came here to escape evil and noise and greed. That's why we had to accept that Economic Plan, so Earth would pay our transportation here." The parachiftist nodded and stared at the young man. "Yes, after the Bureau of Colonization created air and water on this planet it wrote our unfairly limited Economic Plan so we'd always be dependent on them." He grimaced and hissed with pain, trying to move his leg. "It contradicted our Constitution," he added bitterly. "You signed the Plan though," the old man said. "So did you -- and I was younger than you and innocent then," the middle-aged parachutist retorted. "You hypocrite! You signed the Economic Plan -- but in your own way you're trying to be free of it, too. You've been telling villagers to forget their material needs, to stop sending fish extracts to Earth. You claim we'll be free of Earth your way if we'll scatter from this lake to isolated ponds. To philosophic idiocy. But most of us want the freedom to build a great city. We'll have our own independent industries. That's the way to be free of Earth." The Centralist looked hopefully at the young man, who was smiling at the sub-machinegun. The bodyguard wished the Decentralists and Centralists could agree beyond the need for independence from Earth. He wished each group would simply follow its own desires. What he wanted was the gun. "Keep back," rasped the parachutist, aiming between them. "Give up," the old man demanded. "Give up the gun." IF "Hypocrite!" the Centralist cried. "It was you who used force against us. First you old hypocrites tore out the last page of our Constitution, so you could feel free to attack us. You tore out the right to assemble, to choose a way of life, to build a city. All that was in our Constitution until you old men became so terrified you tore it out. You stole freedom from our young people." He looked at the young man. "Our Constitution was written on Earth by experts and was above the Economic Plan. Ask him what happened to its last page." The young bodyguard had been vaguely aware that there was a weathered copy of the Constitution on display in his village, but he had never gotten around, to reading it. He shrugged. "The majority of our elders in all the villages voted to remove the last page," Mr. Decent wheezed, "because it was necessary to defend our villages from you -- " "Hypocrite! That wasn't the reason," the Centralist gasped. "It was," Mr. Decent retorted. "We can't permit violations of Decentralism which would seduce our young people. We can't permit corruptions such as Big Village if our way of life is to survive. You criminal, you murderer -- " the old man pointed a finger red with the blood of his customs inspector -- "you' murdered Henrydavid, didn't you?" The old man began to shiver violently with scrawny rage. The bodyguard expected him to leap at the Centralist. Now he hoped the parachutist would shoot Mr. Decent -- that instant would be his opportunity to grab the gun, all its power! The young bodyguard's face hardened. The parachutist raised the gun. "Give it to me," The old man stepped toward the ex-mayor and reached out his hand for the submachinegun as if he were simply dealing with another young Decentralist villager. "I say, give it to me!" As the gunman's own tendons tightened, the bodyguard saw he was going to shoot. He was going to kill Mr. Decentralist. The act was no longer in his imagination -- it was going to be real. The bodyguard lunged faster than thought in a conditioned reflex called duty and his hand grabbed the submachinegun's barrel; yanking it aside as it roared. It was hammering and burning, slapping his chest so hard he fell backward and the rocks seemed soft. He hadn't expected this. He had wanted the old man -- the old order -- to die. But he had saved Mr. Decent's life. H e clung to the gun, to its warmly quiet smoothness. As he sat up he was amazed at how much his chest hurt when he coughed. Blood was splattering all over the gleaming mechanism. Frantically he tried to wipe it off. He wanted to say something. 'You've shot him," Mr. Decent's distant voice was yelling at someone. "He's dying." The bodyguard couldn't remember having shot anyone. He clung to the gun, knowing he hadn't fired it yet, but to do so was what he wanted more than anything in the world. His hand searched along its slipperiness for the trigger. He wanted to feel its power blasting -- to release all his strength. He had the ultimate weapon. In the dizzily fluctuating light and darkness he became aware that the Centralist was crawling toward him, dragging a broken leg, reaching out to retrieve the gun. "Shoot, shoot," the old man's voice was shouting. The bodyguard needed to pull the trigger, but as his numbed fingers groped for it he saw Mr. Decentralist's angular shadow hurl itself upon the Centralist. They were struggling on the rocks. Decentralist and Centralist indistinguishable in this crazy darkness in his head. As if he were going blind, the bodyguard peered out, trying to see which of his enemies was on top. If he shot the Centralist, he knew Mr. Decent would thank him then and later tell him to drop this wonderful sub-machinegun into the lake where the swords had been lost. The bodyguard's mind rebelled dimly while they thrashed about in the crater. If he shot Mr. Decent instead -- he wondered if the grateful parachutist would let him keep the gun? Not for long. In his veins he felt the dark canoe approaching. Even if he joined them, he knew the Centralists would sieze the gun because it was the ultimate power. "Shoot, shoot -- " a strange, hoarse voice was shouting. In his darkness he felt his power swelling with realization that he could #hoot both of them while they struggled, entwined. His finger began to curl around the trigger while his imagination hurried to strip off the parachutist's safety suit. Its smoothly metallized cloth became a perfect fit for him, shiny and unsullied by the bullet holes in his body. He pushed the Centralist's bloody, bullet-riddled body under a ledge and it vanished as if from a dream. In that overlapping instant all the men from the dark canoe stood around the volcano's rim like teeth and he was gurgling: "Come down. We will build a great city." They became towers around his harbor. He led them to the mainland, covering the whole instaplanet with his city of power. "That's not all I want -- " IF His finger was squeezing the slippery metal hull of the shuttle and it roared deafeningly, capturing the freighters in orbit. When his glittering armada landed on Earth, he gripped the hot steel microphone and gurgled sensuously. His great fleet was rising from all over his Earth. With his. finger rigidly contracted on the vibrant trigger, he sprayed his power outward through the darkness of the Universe. T 'HE old man kneeled in perplexed horror beside his bodyguard. The canoemen clambered down from the rim. Their thick faces glanced from the corpse of the parachutist, whose forehead had been crushed, as if by a brutal caveman, by Mr. Decentralist's jagged rock -- to the young bodyguard, who lay on his back, clutching the sub-machine gun. His chest had been riddled by bullets during that Pavlovian instant when he had yanked the gun away from the parachutist by its barrel and saved the old man. He had fallen backward with it, coughing and writhing, splattering the rocks with his blood, while his numbing hands searched its slippery steel. His forefinger still gripped the trigger of the emptied sub-machinegun. His eyes -- The most massive of the fishermen wrenched the gun away, grunting excitedly. "We seen a parachute come down," he told Mr. Decent. "We come. We broke your rule again, but we landed on this island. Good thing. This is a -- gun!" The old man looked up along the fisherman's bulky torso to his greedily grinning face. Plainly this was not a thoughtful man who would be satisfied with the solitude and austerity of hiw own Walden Pond. "Where are the rest of the bullets?" the big fisherman croaked while the other thick-bodied men crowded around. The old man looked down past his own thin fingers, stained with blood, to the splay feet and heavy legs of these fishermen, who still must consider themselves Decentralists. But he felt a hot wind whirling in the crater; as if from the future, heard their hoarse voices arguing as they struggled for the gun. "Where are the bullets?" In the hot crater Mr. Decentralist felt his life-long beliefs shriveling. He became terrified that this barren instaplanet had defeated his ideals and dreams. A hoarse-voiced generation of greedy Centralists seemed as close as his death. The unexplainable bulletwound in his side bled. After this -- whom could he trust? Bending over his young bodyguard's inscrutably dead face, the old man wept. He felt his power draining away. I was wheeled out of the operating room and returned to his crib in Orphanage #. Time: #:# hours in the year # Deneb Implant Time. A bulky white bandage covered his face at eye level. He slept soundly for most of the rest of the day -- his red-headed, freckled-face form half buried in the soft pillow and blankets. Toys watched. Although he was too young to understand -- he had just lost his left eye. Awakening late in the evening, he found that his only visual contact with the world was through a pinhole in a shield over his right eye. Puzzled, he found that if he moved his gaze from that pinhole he saw only blackness and the movement twinged the raw ocular muscles in the left socket. Turning carefully at neck and waist, he surveyed his crib -- chamois dog, tattered pillow and red ball. As he found each item he pulled it into his lap, cradling it there. They were his world. Nothing was missing. Nothing, that is, except the eye. The Healer, solemn and graying, visited him daily. Impersonal younger parameds tended to his essential needs. He had no other visitors. He rolled his ball back and forth in the crib and talked to his dog. Several weeks later the bandage was replaced by a small, black patch. The pin-holed shield was removed. 'You can open your eye. Little Caesar. I've dimmed the window," said the paramed as he gathered up the tangle of bandages. Caesar screwed up his freckled face and peeked around his room. The lunch tray had been brought in and the aroma caught his attention. 'May I go outside and play?" asked Caesar. "Check with Library after you've eaten," was the paramed's curt reply. He left Caesar to his tray. Dumping all the crisp croutons into the thyme-flavored consomme, Caesar munched rapidly. Then, wiping his mouth on his sleeve, he picked up his red ball and started out into the corridor. Fingering the wall for stability, he made his way into the Library and stood before the large mahogany desk. Healer was seated in the soft desk chair and was speaking in a soft monotone. Caesar waited. As the Healer finished, he stood up and smiled at Caesar. "Please be seated, Caesar," said Library' as Healer went out. Caesar placed his ball into the chair's pillowy recesses and climbed up onto the seat. "And how do we feel today?" asked Library. "Okay, I guess," said Caesar. "May I go out and play?" Library paused. Its class IX IF brain processed the request against Caesar's ambulatory status. It answered, "Healer says that you may go outside today -- for walking. You may not run, jump or otherwise engage in strenuous activity. Understand?" A distracting man punctuated each sentence. "Yes, Library," said Caesar. He climbed down, picked up his ball and started for the sunlit doorway. Library returned to its inner ruminations -- menu planning and inventory checking. playground. Deneb stood with the odor of green cytoplasm. Restless dust occasionally jumped in a breeze. Several yards away one of the older boys -- Arnold -- leaned idly on a pair of bright metal crutches and drew lines in the yellow-ocher dust with the rubber heel of his walking cast. He was one of the Long Runners and was mending a torn heel cord. When he saw Caesar he waved cheerily. Caesar gave his ball an experimental toss -- holding his head cocked to center it in his single visual field. The ball disobeyed him and rolled past Arnold. Holding both crutches in his left hand, Arnold balanced on his good foot and scooped up the ball. "Catch." Caesar watched its bouncing approach. It was raising little white puffs of dust as it came. He sidled into its path and closed his hands over -- nothing. The ball avoided his hands and rolled up onto the freshly cut grass. "Come on. One-eye. You can do better'n that," shouted Arnold. Caesar picked up the ball. Setting his jaw, he returned to face Arnold. He threw with great concentration but the ball went wide again. Arnold shrugged, got a good grip on his crutches and started hobbling after it. Caesar didn't play ball very long that day. Although he was saddened by the ball's sudden contrariness, he still let it stay in his crib at night. He didn't understand the role that binocular vision played in depth perception. All he knew was that he had lost a friend in his ball. The left socket granulated smoothly and he was fitted with a glassy prosthesis. It was heavy, and moving it around was good exercise for the nubbins of ocular muscle that remained under the scar. Although it moved sluggishly and lacked some of the sparkle of his good eye, it did fill out the space under the lid cosmetically. Actually, Little Caesar was less concerned about his lost eye than about his lost ability to play ball. Learning to throw and catch had been sort of a milestone in his musculo-skeletal development -- and now it was gone. One evening, after an unusually disappointing day on the playground, he climbed up onto Library's soft seat and asked: "Why can't I play ball any more?" "Everyone is different," answered the desk. "Some children play team games -- like ball. Others must go it alone. Try the Long Run, Caesar. Trade your ball for a canteen." That night Caesar climbed into his crib with his pillow, toy dog and the canteen. He missed his ball at first, but the canteen -- shaped like a flattened ball -- had a resilient, fiber outer cover. It wasn't uncomfortable,- He'd adjust to sleeping with it. T he canteen served him well. It carried the # liters of water which enabled him to make the Long Run comfortably. The course -- an invigorating six miles through the wooded hills behind the Orphanage -- attracted him immediately. His canteen symbolized maturity. Six months later he had won status in his peer group with his comfortable ten-minute-mile pace. Older boys often saved their deserts for him if he would set the pace for their training runs. During his remaining years at Orphanage # he was known as the wandering pacemaker. As adolescence approached, Caesar discovered that he couldn't spend all of his life in the solitude of running. His missing eye caused some anxiety which was undirected, until he transformed it into simple hatred. Hatred for the bogyman whom the older boys had blamed for his loss. At # the children explained away all unexpected tragedies with this concept of an unseen, evil demon -- The Beast. The Beast roamed their nightmares and filled their conversation. Library, inspired by its paternal circuits, called Caesar in. "There is no Beast," it counseled. "You have to face the real world, Caesar. Forget childhood fantasy. Your eye must have been removed for a very good reason. It probably was diseased or contained a tumor like a melanoma or retinoblastoma. It was done to save your life, undoubtedly. A bogyman can't just slip in here and perforrn a clandestine enucleation. "You'll be graduating soon. I've placed you in competition for Starship Academy. Effort may win you a ship of your own. Every quantum of mental energy will be needed. You'll have none to spar on fantasy." "Starship Academy?" said Caesar, stunned. "And don't worry about the expense. You have been left a generous lega # y for education," added Library. "From my parents?" asked Caesar awkwardly. IF Library winced his telltales. "We never mention that here at Three-o-nine. It is sufficient to realize that they existed once -- out of biological necessity -- but for us they exist no more. They have left you with good genes and an adequate legacy. That is all you need know." Library closed the subject and its  telltales went from a cautious amber-two to a more relaxed green. Caeser stood up -- a bigger Caesar now -- with lean limbs and a few red chin whiskers. Testosterone had begun to alter his physiology and psyche. His larger larynx resonated more deeply; protein and calcium had been added to his frame. Deep, warm reflexes had changed his attitude toward females. S tarship Academy placed Caesar in tough intellectual competition. He likened it to the long run -- going it alone mentally -- grinding his way through theory, practice and new concepts. The nagging Beast dwelled in the back of his subconscious and drained his metal energy. One day it came abruptly to the surface as he was studying an optic playback in exobiology. The subject was a dark, hairy arachnoid. Sensory probes had recorded its activities on one of the newly colonized planets about four parsecs from Deneb. Neglecting the scale, Caesar assumed he was watching a little spider rearranging its wet, white eggs in its nest. The focus was indistinct. He imagined he was watching the Beast running off with his eye. Or was it his ball? Shuddering, as the scale became obvious, he realized why the new colonies on the arachnoid's planet were having such a difficult time getting established. The arachnoid was huge and the moist objects it was carrying were skulls -- human skulls. Caesar remained frozen to the viewer, trying to gather his wits. The recording ended and there followed the nice relaxing view of an anatomy drawing. The internal organs of the alien spider-like creature were diagramed in color, with reassuring labels. The academy years were not easy ones for Caesar, but he learned his lessons well and won his spaceship -- Jen-B -- a cybernette with a very female facade. His physiological parameters were wired into her sensors. One of her first observations was that he was too concerned about his missing eye. She understood it as: '"an unmated male with an infirmity -- " and suggested that he try the Organ Banks for a replacement. Caesar objected: "Organ Banks do not carry whole eyes. Eyes are extensions of the Central Nervous banked. You're thinking of corneas." Jen-B checked her memory bank. "No -- I'm certain that eyes can be replaced -- whole eyes. The technique is called Genetic Carbon Copying. It is complex and expensive. But I'll be tied up for a while getting our assignment. Why don't you check with the local She orbited Caesar down in the scooter. He studied his dull, heavy prosthesis in the mirror -- after almost a fourth of a century he had grown accustomed to seeing it peeking out from under his left eye lid. Still, the prospect of a real eye excited him.  outer office of Organ Banks he felt a yearning for good health. The decor strongly suggested youth and vigor -- holograms of towering softwoods, thundering surf and copious waterfalls. The brown-eyed girl, attractive and slightly erotic, stirred him. He was suddenly grateful that he was shopping for an eye and not a set of gonads. He explained why he was there and she quickly went into a sales patter: "Our Genetic Carbon Copy is precisely what you need. It will match your right eye exactly -- in size, color and antigens. Same genes -- same antigens. No danger of rejection. It will be a complete eye -- optic nerve, retina, lens and sclera -- grown from your own genetic material. It is true that an ordinary eye from another doner will not work satisfactorily. We can't match the antigens close that way. Even the slightest rejection can prove fatal because of the cross reaction with your own brain tissues. Any antibody will have some cross reactions with tissues this is quickly fatal. Even a small amount of antibody can upset the membrane activity of a nerve cell -- psychoses and demyelinating diseases like multiple scleit is your own tissue -- doesn't have any of those problems," He wasn't sure he understood inost of what she was trying to tell him. He hesitated. "It all sounds so complicated. I'm not so sure that -- " he began. "Now we don't have to decide immediately," she said soothingly. "First let's see if you are a potential candidate for a transplant." She led him into a small examining booth and made a big ceremony out of washing her hands. She asked him to remove the artificial eye and examined the empty socket with a scented finger. over the back of his head and asked him to shut his right eye. She tickled the empty socket with a microvolt probe and watched the "Looks like your optic nerve hasn't scarred too badly," she said. "Its axons are gone, of course; but IF the new ones will grow from the ganglion cells in the transplanted retina. I'd say you're an excellent candidate for a transplant." She washed her hands again. He replaced the prosthesis and blinked  it into place. "Now there is the matter of the into seven figures," she said. "Deneb credits?" he asked casually. "Stellar megafrancs," she said. He sputtered. She looked pained. "I'm dreadfully sorry, Caesar. I just assumed that you knew. Our customers pay their own way, of course. There are the costs of the culture tanks, embryonating equipment biochemists and technicians, monitoring devices and finally the surgery itacting proceedure -- and very expensive." He left as gracefully as he could. Stellar megafrancs meant a lifetime of saving -- or a big gamble won. If he hoped Jo earn that kind of money he'd have to try patrolling the Los Coyotes Diagonal, where he had a chance of earning hazard premiums plus possible salvage. He might make his megafranc there, if he survived. II D uty on the Los Coyotes Diagonal -- trade route to the Dog Star -- consisted of months of boredom interspersed with moments of terror. Fifty parsecs of empty space -- no biologically friendly planets -- not even a manned satellite. Natural hazards were minimal on the route. However, like other uninhabited routes on the edge of the humanoccupied sectors, the diagonal had its share of random, weird kidnapings. An occasional starship would be stripped of its human complement -- crew and any genetic cargo. The ship itself, its tools, weapons, and other items of human wealth were left intact. Violence was absent. The usual assumption involved a hypothetical race of advanced aliens -- dubbed The Dregs by the popular press -- aliens who valued humans for some reason but had no use for human tools. Caesar found it hard to imagine a race whose technology or ethics prevented them from seizing the ships along with the men; but he agreed that he was the best man to hunt them. He had been hunting his own personal Beast most of his life and hunting the unseen Dregs was very much the same. Statistics showed that kidnapings involved the freighters and more sluggish Implant ships. The presence of a single high-performance starship anywhere on the route seemed to protect it. Insurance cartels paid well for this type of duty. He and Jen-B cruised about, testing their IF energy weapons and setting out noisy beacons -- making their presence known. 'Wake up. Caesar. Derelict ahead," called Jen-B. Six years of false alarms and he still felt a chill at the thought of meeting the Dregs. He suited up and watched the screen. A ship appeared -- an old human model. "She's quiet. No signs of energy in her hull," said Jen-B. They stood off and bounced a variety of signals off the derelict -- even nudged it a bit with a tractor beam. Nothing happened. "Might as well go on board. See what I can find," said Caesar. If the Dregs had struck the ship he knew what to expisct. No humans would be left on board. But he found humans. Dead ones. An all-male crew of thirtyseven plus a score of passengers -- both sexes -- all dead of natural causes that could be summed up as old age. Jen-B sent her servomech prowling about the derelict's hull. in search of answers. It dug around in a cold reactor core, energized a few senile circuits and sampled several of the frozen and dried corpses. Caesar searched the cabins. He found no signs of violence. Several examples of poor housekeeping suggested that the older survivors had lost some of their mental facilities. He found a handwritten diary in one of the uniform pockets. The last dozen pages were mostly illegible except for the repeated entry: "Bay A-#." Bay A-# was in the cargo section. The derelict had carried a payload of Water World Biota -- valuable flora and fauna that reptic evolution. A ri # h genetic cargo -- still suspended and, apparently, still viable. Caesar moved among the bays until he came to A-#. He paused at the hatch fumbling with his thick gloves. Inside, he waited for his suit light to brighten. The bay had been stripped of most of its suspended biota and a makeshift tank had been constructed. A tiny mummy occupied the tank. It took him a moment to realize that it was the body of a human baby -- probably around ten pound size. From the looks of the wires and tubes the tank was the work of someone with little knowledge of the suspension process. He hoped the infant had been dead before it had been hooked up -- mercifully dead. Water World suspension tanks did not modify to human support easily. He returned to the Control Section. The servomech was busy with the astrogational components of the derelict. "I think we can get her moving. This may be the salvage that we've been looking for," Jen-B said over his helmet communicator. "What happened? Why is everyone dead?" IF "Computer failure," answered Jen-B. "This is one of the older models -- fully automated -- one mechanical intelligence. No backups. Evidently no one on board could rig the warp drive for manual override. That would probably have been suicide anyway. Fortunately this is a greenhouse class -- there was plenty of food and oxygen for the humans to live out their life spans. But out here on the Diagonal nothing is within range of a conventional drive. They just lived out their lives between stars. They could see their pile running down so they didn't try to raise children. "The one infant you saw in Bay A-# was probably an accidental birth. Without energy to run the hydroponics section they knew how long the ship could support life; and there are no facilities on board to suspend humans." No, there wouldn't be, thought Caesar. That was one of the advantages of a greenhouse starship. You made the trip warm. R efueled, the derelict moved and, with the servomech providing the "brains," it managed to limp back to Deneb on the laser tail of Jen-B. After picking up their credits at Salvage -- almost an even megafranc -- Jen-B cheeked in at the Academy and Caesar started out . for the Organ Banks. He stopped off at Orphanage # on the way. Weathering had lowered the hills behind the playground and the trees looked stouter; but the building was unchanged. A nostalgic Caesar entered the Library. He was no longer the pliant youth of #. Gray streaked his red hair. Freckles had fused into a diffuse bronze under the actinic stimulation of alien suns. Trunk and extremities had thickened with added muscle and gristle. "Remember me?" he asked the desk. A hum under the floor tickldd his feet. After a few moments the speaker coughed and said, "You are the wandering pacemaker -- Little Caesar with the legacy." "I've just returned from a tour of duty on the Diagonal. Came back for a new eye from the Organ Banks. I was wondering if you could tell me anything about my people. My family." Silence. He waited a respectable length of time and asked, "The Beast?" "The Beast does not exist," said Library immediately. Caesar shrugged. Even after all these years Library's slow circuits were consistent. The old desk grumbled something and then its voice softened. "Little Caesar. How you have grown! You are a bigger man now -- and older. I hope you haven't neglected that body of yours. You haven't given up the Long Run have you?" Caesar's eyebrows rose slightly. "There wasn't much opportunity for running out on the Diagonal. But I've taken care of myself. I can still run." "If you'd like to run before lunch you may use the refresher. There's a remote unit on the peg in there," said Library. The words were more a maternal command than an offer. He hung his shoes and shirt on the peg and clipped the palm-sized remote unit to his belt. He walked across the playground -- his bare soles tingling at each pebble and blade of grass. A sweating fiveyear-old returning from the course nodded gravely as he passed. The morning was mildly sunny. He stepped out briskly, covering the first four hundred yards in record time (for him). He had kept his muscles toned up in his starship gym and they carried him well. The muscles were large -- with large capillary beds to store the lactic acid and carbon dioxide they were producing. His vascular system was slow to adjust to the exertion and his pH dropped a hundredth of a point. The acidosis surprised his chemoreceptors and his pulse began to race. "Good pace," said Library over the remote unit. At the first mile marker he felt like a fish out of water. Gasping and dizzy, he slowed to a walk. Then, as the course turned downhill, the going became easier and he began to jog again. He waited for a second wind but none came. He hair-pinned the pine tree at the three-mile' marker. Thirsty. No canteen. "Thirty-three minutes, five seconds," announced Library. His coronary arteries -- become small in the years without endurance activity -- were unable to meet the demands of his heart muscle. Straining on the return up-slope he developed chest pain. Synovial edema puckered his gait and a limp appeared as he neared the playground. His vision swam. Numbness prickled at his face and hands. Still no second wind. The neglected cardiorespiratory machinery was unable to shift into overdrive. Gasping and clutching at his aching chest, he fell across the finish line. His face was wet and pale. Saliva drooled out of the corner of his mouth. "Seventy-four minutes, twelve seconds," said Library. In his contortions his glassy eye fell out and rolled, moist and gritty, in the dust. Several minutes passed before feeling returned to him and he picked it up -- popping it into his mouth to clean it. Spitting out the offending dirt, he blinked the prosthesis back under his left eyelid and sat up straight, breathing deeply. "Good workout," said Library. "Really good," he said wryly. IF A t organ banks he was ushered into the office of one of the senior parameds. After some preliminary discussion and nodding the fee was nailed down and addenda supplied. "A Genetic Carbon Copy eye -- #I mf. The project requires a four-year growing period. You must realize that if you decide to cancel only that part of the megafranc that hasn't been used can be returned. You are liable for all the expenses for your project." Caesar ignored the paramed's indifferent manner and asked, "Why four years?" The paramed glanced at his wellgroomed fingernails. "Takes that long to reach the size to match your other eye. Can't use a banked eye because of the danger of rejection. Don't want any of those ning around, now -- do we?" "No. I suppose not. But how do you grow an eye? Do you take a piece of my good eye and -- " The paramed shook his head, reached into his desk for a folder. cess. We can't grow most adult tissue in an organ form. Only the immature cells divide well and they quickly upset any gross anatomic structures such as you'd need in an organ like the eye. The lens, cornea, retina and optic nerve -- none of these structures can be cultured as such. We have to harvest the eye bud from an embryo and grow that. "We just draw a blood sample and isolate some of your lymphocytes -- a young white blood cell that divides very easily. When the lymphocytes are growing well we freeze some, grow some and remove the nuclei from some. These naked nuclei are implanted into human egg cytoplasm -- eggs from which their own nuclei have been removed. The egg with your naked nucleus divides and embryonates with only your genes We just grow it until it is large enough to harvest the transplant material we are after." The folder Caesar was looking at showed several examples of culture tanks. One contained a liver for a post-hepatitis patient. Another a pair of lungs for a victim of beryllium poisoning. The round lymphocyte drawing with its lacy nucleus reminded him of his red ball. "That naked nucleus carries all the genes necessary to grow an entire individual?" asked Caesar. "That is correct." Caesar studied the diagram of the optic nerves. They were shaped like a large X, half of each nerve crossing the midline on its way back from the retina to the geniculate bodies in the midbrain. A photomicrograph showed He frowned. "I've done a little work with computers and Tve learned that hookups between sensors and cybernetic units are very critical. All the connections have to be exact or incoming information can't be interpreted. How can anyone match up all these separate nerve fibers?" he asked. The paramed looked pained. "Those nerve fibers are coming from nerve cells in the retina. The hookups in organic systems aren't so critical. The visual cortex relearns how to interpret incoming signals. All we have to do is inject nerve stump. That gets most of the new axons growing down the right , direction. The anastomosis is sealer, a mixture of embryonic connective tissue -- from one of tion hormones from pituitary and quickly and matures to adult connective tissue before the cut ends of the nerve can scar too badly." "But my brain hasn't been able to see with my left eye for all these years. Hasn't it lost the ability permanently?" The paramed pointed to the center of the X on the diagram. "Half of the fibers from your right eye cross over, here, at the optic chiasma. So, with just one eye you have been using both sides of your visual cortex. The new left eye will just be adding more information -- reinforcing the images. You probably won't even notice the increased acuity -- it'll occur so gradually. The biggest change will be the addition of your left lateral peripheral vision. You have none now -- your nose is sort of in the way. But once the images balance you'll be able to learn to hold your head straight again." Caesar had not been aware of how obvious his cock-eyed gaze was. He had a habit of carrying his head turned slightly to the left so that his right visual field was centered on what he was looking at. Two eyes would square up his posture again. He rolled up his sleeve for the venipuncture. H e approached his scooter. The hatch opened arid JenB's voice came over the communicator. "All finished up on the surface?" "I guess so. I'm coming up. Warm up something light for supper." He strapped himself in. The light scooter arced quickly toward the orbiting starship. "How did you make out with Academy?" he asked. "Fine," Jen-B said. "They're well pleased with our profit margin so far. I have a promising list of new missions. When will you "Four years." There was a moment's pause IF while the starship balanced the time requirements against the potential income of each mission. "Two parsecs is the range," she said. "We can stay here and take up people-moving. There's mining in the Tietze System. Charting in the -- " "Mining?" he interrupted. "Part of my legacy was in mining stock. Something called the MotherLode-Planetoid. Can you check with Library and see if there is any record that would link my legacy with the Tietze Planetoids. I've been trying to find out about my family but Library doesn't like to talk about parents." Jen-B opened a channel to the Orphanage. "Library is only a class nine. Not too reliable. There's no cross indexing between you and Tietze. Better relax and finish your supper while I try a few more lines of questioning." He ate from a wide-necked squeeze tube that contained spicy protein cubes in a warm broth of aromatic hydrocarbons. Finally Jen-B said: "Library is full of blocks about people -- you, your parents, your condition prior to operation. But the lines of information are pretty exacting when assets are involved. Your legacy did contain that 'mining stock. It was a Tietze-based company. The date your legacy was set up was early in the year One Thousand ninety-nine, D.I.T. It opened at zero point, three three seven magafrancs. Information on the person opening the legacy is scanty. He was an off-world human, alive -- no probated will or anything like that. I can't find his name, but he had red hair and was staying at a local address with a large number of injured miners." "Red hair?" said Caesar enthusiastically. "He must have been my father." But he was left with more unanswered questions -- why the legacy at all if the leaver were alive? Or, if no longer alive, where had he died? And why hadn't the legacy-leaver taken Caesar with him when he left? Caesar quickly ran through the list of possible reasons why a father would leave his son in an prphanage. All he could come up with was the possibility that he -- Caesar -- might be illegitimate. Unwanted. His own name, Caesar, was similar to the names of the other illegitimates he had known. They had all been given names of powerful men -- planet conquerors -- in the hopes that these would bring them some of the luck of their namesakes. He frowned at Jen-B's panel. "I suppose there is nb record of where he went after he left the legacy." "Nothing connecting the legacyleaver with any of the other memory bigs." Jen-B said. "The blocks arc complete around him. But the number of miners in the rehabilitation section with him indicates a fairly large mining accident a year or so prior. No mines on Deneb record such a disaster; Tietze is a logical place to begin our search, A redhead with zero point three megafrancs shouldn't be too hard to trace if he is linked with a large mining accident. We know the approximate date and I have a list of the securities that were put into your legacy." Caesar hesitated for a moment. He didn't like mixing business with her personal life -- might jeopardize profit Finally he assented. "We'll ne a navigator to bring back the ore. Have one in mind?" he asked. "There's a poet at Cyber Central, He's about' three hundred years old. But he has been on the Tietze route several times and his price is right." Caesar nodded, his mind on the legacy-leaver. "I'll send the scooter for him," continued Jen-B. Caesar stood in the cargo bay when Navigator was off-loaded. He was old and corroded. About the size of a human, he would weigh about # pounds down on the surface. He consisted of three units: a fuel-cell abdomen, a cybernetic thorax and a sensory head -- all joined by narrow, flexible joints. Other than an extendible neck, he had no motor units. Caesar wiped a finger across his gritty chassis. "Your skin is a mess," he said. "Too much oxygen and water vapor down there. But don't worry about me. I'll be fine as soon as I'm out in a vacuum again," said Navigator. Caesar glanced over his shoulder toward one of Jen-B's panels. "Are you sure he'll be all right?" Navigator's head -- a sphere with a circumference of sensors -- anthropomorphized its appearance by brightening up a pair of "eyes" and turning them on Caesar. He actually looked sheepish. Jen-B answered, "Navigator has been debauching his energy stores and letting his body age, but it was for an understandable reason. He wanted to be near Music Box. He calculated that he had become obsolete and he planned to spend his final years with the machine he loved. Music Box and he were composing ballads -- finishing tunes he had started while out listening to the stars. All he needs is a recharge and a new coat of polyjner. He'll do fine." Caesar glanced back at Navigator's downcast optic pickups. "Relax, Poet. You are a member of the crew now." Ill sar tolerated a lot of weird music. Navigator and Jen-B shared the electromagnetic music from the stars. Jen-B's outer sensors  IF gathered m the stellar noise and fed it through Navigator's unscrambler circuits. It came out as music only a machine could appreciate. For trading purposes Jen-B had picked up a dozen small dairy units -- goatcloverbee implants designed for low gravity dome living. The entire Tietze system was rich in heavy metals -- an H type star circled by uncounted planetoids, the largest only a # G planet that had a tenuous atmosphere and a few simple local phylla. The Deneb system with its single planet was fairly metal-poor. The usual commerce consisted in exchanging Deneb genetic information for Tietze planetoids. The size of a planetoid was expressed in terms of the number of pounds that the bartering captain would weigh on its surface. A convenient size for accelerating back to Deneb would have a pull of between #.I and # pounds on Caesar. These units were called "donans" after the pioneer Mother-Lode engineer. Jen-B nuzzled up to the Tietze satellite station which housed the Buyer -- a humanoid robot. Quasistellar engines were anchored to the ends of the satellite's arms. Human technicians swarmed over Jen-B's cargo enthusiastically. The microcontainers of naked nuclei looked monotonous to Caesar, but the Tietze system humans understood their coded labels. In a system where the local ecology had produced nothing more complex than moss and nematodes, every flower and butterfly had to be brought across parsecs of empty space. After hundreds of years the local biology textbooks had only a two-page glossary. Even a new weed would be welcome if it looked, smelled or tasted different. The mechanical Buyer remained aloof. "We already have a dairy animal. I can offer you a zeropoint-one donan planetoid for your cargo." "But that is a pretty large breed of cattle you're talking about. Suitable for the grazing lands on Tietze's largest planet. I'm offering you a thirty-pound milk goat that can go anywhere a man can go. It produces a couple quarts of milk a day and can be bred yearly -- usually has twin births. Any dome city can raise goats on a hydroponics farm." said Caesar. Buyer remained silent. I'll personally stay and see that the implants get established. But I'll need # donan." Buyer agreed immediately. Payment on delivery of established implants. It would take about a year to get them started -- plant the clover, rewarm the bees and embryonate the goats. Jen-B began to cycle the goat naked nuclei into their respective eggs. Domes were selected. The clover was planted in every open place -- along walks, in decorative flower boxes -- on roofs. It was a pleasant sight to see one of the citizens returning to his home -- a home with half a dozen baby goats grazing on its roof. The little animals accepted the gravity of the smaller planetoids and seemed to enjoy the long leaps from roof to roof. Psychologically there were an asset -- a symbol of their owners' protein independence and a break in the monotony of the scanty dome ecology. The mechanical Buyer followed the growth curves of the new goats. Implant success hinged on successful reproduction, and the animals seemed to be approaching sexual maturity on schedule. A set of Q. engines were detached from the Buyer's satellite tested and fueled with quarks. An inventory of # donan planetoids was prepared -- each with its analysis. Caesar car ried the preliminary list with him as he traveled about, watching the goats mature. When they passed one of the planetoids on the list Jen-B marked its composition, size and orbit on her chart of the Tietze system. with some goats and thought she looked familiar. She had the same red hair and freckles that he had as a child. Her father also had some of his features. He was checking the goat implant in a dome city on one of the outer # gravity planetoids. He spoke to the girl. "My great-grandfather and grandfather were both killed at the mine," she said matter-of-factly. "They've closed it down now." "Where is the mine?" asked Caesar. He had gone over this planetoid earlier when the goats had been implanted. No large mines had been in operation during the years he was interested in. She looked through the semitransparent dome and pointed toward the horizon. "The mine was on Fish Moon." An oblong planetoid was barely visible -- a crescent of light in the glare of the Tietze sun -- a tiny thumbnail size. He thanked her, #atted a goat's knobby head and went back to his scooter. On their trip to Fish Moon JenB made her observations. "Tendonan size. But it has two large fracture lines -- so essentially it consists of three separate masses now. Mining complex cold -- no energy. Just a robot sentinel. Better wear your heavy with its extra bottles -- the domes appear unpressurized." He watched Fish Moon's approach on the viewscreen. It did look a little like a fish. One of the fracture lines could be the gills and the other ran longitudinal -- like a fish's lateral line. The bright reHecting surfaces and the sharp, black shadows reminded him of fins and scales. Soon he was close enough to see the domes and Helds of the abandoned mine. It was IF located at the junction of the two fracture lines -- about where he would expect the fish's pectoral fin to be. Jen-B moved the scooter, to the unloading bay. "Sentinel says he is alone -- a class X or XI on our system intelligence grade. I'm sending a servomech. Tapper, along with you. You'll probably have to probe the mine's old memory circuits yourself. Sentinel doesn't have the power." Caesar climbed into the scooter and smiled at Tapper's little barrel shape -- six stubby legs, two small optic pickups, a V antenna in front and a stout carrying handle down his back. He was a ten-gallon size and reminded Caesar of a giant ladybug. Tapper wrapped his six stubby legs around the anh rest of Caesar's couch and waited. While Tapper worked in the cold dark conduits of the mine's memory components, Caesar casually picked up several chips and fed them into the Scooter's analysis port. The analysis of each flickered across scooter's screen as it was relayed to Jen-B. The chips were spat out and dropped slowly to the ground. They were unchanged, except for the three pin-sized, burn-holes of the analyzer. "We are in luck," said Tapper over the communicator. "This is the standard Hagan memory pattern. If it is intact I'll be back into the disaster data in a few minutes." Caesar picked up another handful of chips. These had been in contact with each other during the twenty-odd years of hard vacuum. Their molecules had migrated across the contact interface -- fusing them into one crystallized mass. The first sample of chips -- lying separate on the polymere floor -- had not fused to anything. Outside the domi: the entire planetoid surface consisted of one fused mass -- soft dust and loose gravel had settled and crystallized into the harsh surface of an industrial grinding wheel. "Found your legacy-leaver," announced Tapper. "Portfolio matches. He was one of the foremen -- injured badly in the explosion. Fault lines appeared in Fish Moon -- vacuum explosioi)s, high oxygen flash fires and tunnel collapse. His name -- Walter S.J. Varley -- does not match any of the data we have from Deneb. But now that we have his name we should be able to learn. more back there. He left for Deileb thirty-nine years ago. Caesar said nothing. The goats were bred successfully. As the fetuses grew in the uteri the mechanical Buyer ordered Q. engine installation on the planetoid Caesar had selected. Jen-B assigned Tapper and Navigator to observe the construction. #'T' HE goats are coming. TheIgoats are coming," shouted the little red-haired girl. Her father got up from his coffee-and-cake and went up the ladder to the goat shed on the roof. When the message arrived Caesar hurried to assist with the delivery. "Not niuch to worry about, Caesar," said Jen-B. "The babies are small and the mother's pelvis is more than adequate. About the only thing we could do is raise the atmospheric oxygen to protect the second twin. When there are' two like this the cord and placenta of the second one are subject to occasional damage during the delivery of the first." They arrived in Time to witness the birth of the second baby goat. Its wet, boney body came out fast in a gush of cloudy fluids. The little girl's father kneeled in the dried clover bedding and deftly plucked the membranes from the heads of the newborns. "Implant's a success," said Jen B. The girl's father -- tall and redheaded like Caesar -- invited him in for a glass of celebration. The drink was white and bubbly and had a bitter, alcoholic sting. Caesar was grateful that it was served in very small glasses. The little girl's mother -- also a redhead -- was breast-feeding two tiny infants. They were about eight or nine pounds in size -- one a freckled redhead, the other a dark. olive-skinned baby with coal black hair. When he was back in his scooter, arcing up towards Jen-B Caesar commented on the two different genetic appearances of the human children. "A dividend from our implantplanetoid-exchange. One of the implant vials contained a broad spectrum of human naked nuclei -- the rainbow mix," said Jen-B. "I cycled several through embryogenesis to correlate with the human pregnancy so they'd have milk." Caesar looked puzzled. "What have humans to do with our dairy implants?" "Goatherds," said Jen-B simply. Well, thought Caesar, the Tietze System could certainly use a little broadening of its human genetic base. J EN-B orbited the bartered planetoid about two diameters out. The Q. engines were installed and Navigator had tied himself into the communications net. Caesar stood by, carrying Tapper by his dorsal handle. "Ready?" asked Navigator. "Try a hundredth of a gravity," suggested Caesar. The vibration of the engines -- transmitted through about a hun dred miles of ore -- passed up through his feet to his cranial nerve. He "heard" their quasistellar fires. He felt the center of gravIF ity of the planetoid shift slightly aft. Navigator adjusted the engine's fields -- fondling the little captive pieces of the sun, Caesar leaned against the scooter and glanced nervously up at Jen-B's orbiting hull. "Feels like the center of gravity is moving back toward the engines," he said. "We're moving," said Navigator. "The vectors of acceleration are the same -- gravity or engine. You're feeling thd resultant force." "What happens when the center of gravity moves above the surface?" he asked. "That's when we find out if we've bought ourselves a nugget or a pile of rocks," said Navigator casually. Caesar climbed into his scooter. "Well, good luck. The stockholders will be happy to see you. Have a nice trip." Navigator did have a nice trip. His sensors listened for music in the planetoid's vibrations and the electromagnetic spectrum of the background stars. Finding a tune everywhere, he sang along -- composing new ballads. Ballads he would sing to Music Box when he returned to Deneb, IV into the Orphanage and set him on Library's desk. "I'm going to check in at the Clinic. You two see if you can get along until I return," he said. Tapper shifted his weight on his little feet and waved his antennae. Library felt a flush of warmth as Tapper's powerful sympathy fields caressed old memory cores. "What manner of a machine is this?" asked Library. "I am Tapper -- a remote unit of Jen-B -- a class VI." Then, after a pause Tapper turned to Caesar: "You go ahead Everything is fine here." T 'HE paramed probed his socket with a gloved finger. "Now look up. That's fine." Caesar felt the nubbin of muscle flex and twitch under the examining finger. "Good ocular muscle tone. Moving that prosthesis around has been good exercise. These stumps are well developed," said the paramed. the back of his head and prold the eye socket with the stimulator probe. "Patent nerve. Visual cortex okay." He snapped off his glove while Caesar blinked back the glassy prosthesis. "Be ready for surgery in two days?" asked the paramed. Caesar shifted in his chair. He ' was iCareful not to look at any of the little display tanks -- afraid he'd, see his new eye peeking at him. "Now don't worry about the pain," comforted the paramed. "You'll be sound asleep when they peel out the old scar. There are a dozen or so vessels to hook up on the back of the eye ball. That takes some fine stitching under a microscope. We have an oriental technician that does a beautiful job at that. The nerve hookup is sealer. "Your eyes will be taped for a few weeks. But otherwise there won't be much inconvenience. The postoperative discomfort can be covered satisfactorily with a few All-Purpose Capsules each day." Caesar nodded and started to leave. "Here, don't forget your seeingeye cap," said the paramed. He handed Caesar a thin skullcap with a pair of optic pickups on the front and a prickly layer of skin electrodes on the inside. He tried it on. "Feels like a pillow full of nails," he said. The paramed touched one of the optic pickups. "You've been used to seeing with your right eye. I'll turn off the left pickup. Now shut your eye and tell me what you see." "Just blackness -- nothing. Oh, there is some light. Colored. Looks like a lot of colored ink blots." "Fine. The impulses are getting through. Open your eye to give your cortex a clue to what you are looking at. Now close it again." Caesar thought he saw a solid square. Then it became a square hole in a solid wall. He opened his eye a few more times and soon his cortex was correctly interpreting lights from shadows through the cap's pickup. The paramed tuned the fine adjustment. Secondary images began to demarcate -- furniture in the room was clear enough to be avoided if he wanted to try walking with the cap. But he couldn't tell what was on the desk and he couldn't recognize the humanoid blob that was the paramed. "This is great. How well will I be able to see with this thing?" asked Caesar. "Not much better than that. Enough to find the refresher and the food tray. There are only about a hundred electrodes in this model -- and they just rest on top of the scalp. Can't focus well on that part of the visual cortex that is folded in between the two halves of your occipital lobes. We have produced twentyeighty vision with the ten thousand electrode model, but they were sewn into the dural membranes under the skull." Caesar took off the cap. "Fine. I'll practice with this thing at night. See you in two days." "Right." He found Tapper still resting on Library's desk. "Learn anything?" he asked. Tapper shifted his barrel shape IF around and focused on Caesar. "Not much." he answered. "Library is a class IX. He's old and has been using a non-Hagan language for storage. I thought there were blocks around you and the legacy-leaver -- so did JenB -- but the circuits are clean. No memory blocks. Cross indexing was just neglected in your case. You suddenly appear in the memory banks on the date of your enucleation -- nothing from your past is entered. Your legacy is perfectly recorded -- only your legacyleaver is vague. The name -- Walter S.J. Varley -- means nothing to Library. It is odd that these things would go unrecorded." "Caesar. Did you find your legacy-leaver?" asked Library. "I think so, Library. I traced the legacy itself back to the Tietze System. Apparently the legacyleaver was a man much like myself but a miner -- injured. He came here to Deneb for rehabilitation. He may have been married on his home planetoid, but he didn't bring a wife to Deneb." "None of them brought wives," said Tapper. Library filed that information away, "information about parents I do not record as long as it conforms to niy basic norms." "What norms?" asked Caesar. "Good genes." Caesar reviewed what he knew. The legacy-leaver was a foreman. Somatic similarities suggested that he could be Caesar's father. But many of the other workers from Tietze were related. Any could have fathered him. If his mother was a local Deneb girl, the legacy might well have been left to cover for the abandoned child of any of the Tietze workers. The foreman might have been acting in his company's name rather than his own family name. Well, either way the conclusion was the same. Caesar was an unwanted child who had been left to "go it alone." Library had raised him well, he decided. Caesar placed his right hand on Tapper's dorsal handle and began to lift. Then, almost as an afterthought, he replaced the cybernetic barrel on the desk. It was a sunny day. "Might as well take a Long Run while I'm here," he said. "Take it easy. The last time you tried that you had some ischemic S-T depression," said Tapper, reflecting Jen-B's concern. Her sensors, wired into his body, picked up physiological parameters and telemetered them back. His cardiogram consisted of an electrical tracing with the waves labeled P,Q,R,S and T. Depolarization of the upper chambers of the heart complex was the result of depolarization of the large ventricular muscles that pump the bjood. The flat segment between S and T waves reflected lack of oxygen. The heart sags when the myocardium gets ischemic. If the ischemia is too severe the muscle can die. This raises the S-T segment sharply. Jen-B worried as Caesar removed his shoes. Caesar glanced up the first leg of the course. Four years was a long time. Just the sight of the slope tired him. "Pulse one-forty and he hasn't even started," said Tapper. He started jogging slowly. One minute. Two. He still felt okay. He stretched out his pace a little more briskly. "S-T down, zero point one mv -- ischemia," said Tapper. Caesar felt a slight squeeze in his chest. He slowed to a walk. "Walking now. S-f down zero point two mv," said Tapper. "He'll start running again. He never stops on the course," said Library. Tapper shifted around and focused on the open window. He couldn't see the course from there. Jen-B watched the cardiogram. The rate was an irregular # beats per minute. Too fast. And there were occasional extra complexes. The myocardium was beginning to get irritated -- probably a rising adrenalin level. The walking dropped his pulse rate under # and he topped the hill. On the down slope he started running again. Muscles and joints yarmed up. "S-T segment down zero point twenty-five mv now," said Tapper. Library frowned at the little barrel. "What has he been doing the last four years? He is in worse condition now than the last time he tried to run the course. He has no endurance at all." "On the starship he pressed the equivalent .of his own weight each day," said Tapper. "That's no good for endurance. Why he -- " began Library. "Heart block. Heart block!" shouted Tapper. The cardiogram showed, an atrial P wave rate of about #min and a ventricular and lower chamrs were beating separately. Jen-B sent the scooter from its parking place to the Long Run course. It swooped down and landed across the trail in front of Caesar. He was standing, wet and pale, in the middle of the trail near the three-mile pine tree. He had a puzzled expression on his face and he was scratching his jaw. "Toothache," he said. He didn't seem to be able to see the scooter. He suddenly felt profoundly weak. He lay down slowly. His face and hands went numb and the peripheral visual field darkened. He coughed up some pink foam and passed out. bers," said the Healer. Caesar opened his eyes. The IF chest pain was still there and he felt short of breath. He coughed foam. But he also felt wonderful. Drugs. "What does this mean?" he asked weakly. The Healer smiled. "Awake now -- are we? That's just fine. You've just had a three gam infarct. A little bit of heart muscle died. The vessel that supplied it got plugged up. Atherosclerosis, .probably." "How serious is it?" "Not too bad. It is a small one. But it did get the conducting fibers. Your atrial and ventricular contractions are not coordinated. That should clear up in a couple of weeks." said the Healer. "If it doesn't?" "We have a Genetic Carbon Copy heart we can put in." said the Healer. I'm having. Not a heart," said Caesar. "An eye and a heart too -- if you need it," said the Healer. 'The Organ Banks checked with us yesterday. They have just about anything you can possibly need -- Caesar was puzzled. "But all I paid for was the eye -- " The Healer patted him on the shoulder. "You rest now. You've already been here three days. I've cut down your sedatives. Tomorrow you'll be up in the chair. And -- oh yes. Don't worry about and the eye they'll refund about zero point twenty-eight mf." Caesar slept. He dreamed of a little red-headed boy chasing a ball. Chasing and catching the ball. The boy had two eyes. Two eyes and a heart. The next morning Tapper was on his bedside table when he awoke. "How is the wandering pacemaker of three-o-nine?" Caesar puffed up his pillow and stared at Tapper. "Does this mean I'll loose JenB?" he asked. Tapper hesitated before answering. "Up to now the answer to that is -- not yet. The Academy went through the list of their recent graduates last night. No one matched Jen-B as well as you -- in your present condition. If you improve they expect you to continue to operate at a profit. If you don't -- " He left the obvious unsaid. Dead or a cripple. It amounted to the same thing. He'd be left here and Jen-B would be matched with a younger and healthier human. The Healer came in with Library's remote unit -- the threeinch disc. He fastened it to Caesar's pajamas. "Wear this. When it says walk -- you walk. If it says lie down -- you lie down. Today you walk to your chair and sit there for fifteen minutes. Do that twice in the morning and twice in the after noon." Caesar sat up and hung his feet over the side of the bed. Then he got up easily arid walked to his chair, "My heart. The chest pain is gone.'" "Don't let that fool you. It was a three-gram infarct. Right on the conducting bundle. Heart block is still present. Just do what you're told." along with it -- and at a lower cost?" Healer shrugged, "I don't know too much about these genetic projects. Different specialty. But their prices do reflect the actual costs. Must be cheaper to grow the eye with a heart than without it."' Caesar noticed that the heart refund was ominously close to the size of his own legacy. He tried to recall what the paramed had said when he had been explaining the Genetic Carbon Copying ' process -- something like growing the embryo until it is large enough to harvest the transplant. How large? Four years? An icy sensation closed on his chest. He shuddered, "Tapper?" he asked apprehensively. "Do you have a complete description of the legacy-leaver's injuries? Was his left eye -- " "Missing?" said Tapper. "Yes. Penetrating injury during the explosion. His eye was removed at the Tietze Station prior to his coming here." Then Caesar realized exactly what he was. "Cardiac arrest! Cardiac arrest!" shouted Tapper. Caesar's cardiogram rail flat -- isoelectric with ineffectual haphazard fibrillation. An electric shock restarted the heartbeat twice but it stopped again. He heard the sounds of hurrying footsteps in the outer hall. Then he heard nothing. blackness. He was in bed -- flat, soft -- no toys. Face bandaged. Eye? He tried moving his right eye and felt an ache in the left socket. The Jeft eyelid was filled out with something soft and warm -- lighter than his prosthesis. Lighter and When he tried to take a deep breath to speak, all he could produce was a squeak. Left chest pain limited his inspiration. It was not the squeezing, substernal pain of myocardial infarct. It was different -- more localized to the ribs and muscles. Cautiously he palpated his left chest -- another bandage. "Oh, no -- " he mumbled. "Are you awake?" asked Tapper's tinny voice. Caesar caught himself before .he asked what happened. He knew. His own heart must have stopped efficient, he thought cynically. His IF own body had been repaired with antigenically perfect organs -- perfect because they had come from his Genetic Carbon Copy. Only -- he knew that somewhere a little those organs today. His naked nucleus had grown into a child -- just as he had when The Beast had needed a new eye. The difference this time was that Caesar had needed a heart too. This would leave the four-year-old nonviable. No need for a legacy. Caesar would be getting a refund. Jen-B was shocked by the level of depression that Caesar's readouts reflected. She prodded Tapper. "Hi, there," shouted Tapper cheerily. "Your seeing-ey e-cap is right here beside me. Try it on. Take a look outside. It is a nice sunny day. You have been sleeping for almost two days." Nothing. Schizoid encephalogram pattern. Jeri-B almost left her orbit. Was she losing her human? Tapper felt her nagging commands. Days turned to weeks. Nothing. "Have a drink," sang Tapper. He danced on his little legs to shake the table. The table moved and the ice rattled invitingly in the glass. Caesar stirred. Exploring the table top he found his capand set it on his head. Spiny electrodes tickled his scalp, producing a Rorschach of colored amorphous blobs to appear in his visual cortex. The bandage prevented some of the electrodes from reaching his skin. He pressed the cap down firmly and an image appeared for a moment. He saw Tapper's welcome barrel shape on his bedside table. There was also a tall object -- the drink. He reached for it. His encephalogram ran smoothly as his fingers closed on the cold, moist cylinder. The cap shifted and the room disappeared. He pressed it down again and the wall came into focus. The window was bright. A blob moved past the window -- a small round blob. A larger blob followed. He turned away. "Bandages come off today," a voice said curtly. "Still not talking? Well, you can't fool us, Caesar. We can see from your brain waves that there is nothing wrong -- except a bad case of stubbornness." The bandages were unwound. "When you feel like it you can open your eyes any time." Caesar knew what he would see -- two well-matched eyes -- wet eyes -- living eyes. He glanced dejectedly into the mirror held by the paramed. He took a moment to focus -- but there they were -- two eyes. He said nothing. He glanced sadly at his chest. The long thin incision was healing well. The cross-marks left by the sutures were hardly visible. "Oh don't worry about your heart. We fixed that too," said the paramed proudly. Caesar winced "Got those coronaries pretty well reamed out. Implanted two extra arteries into the heart muscle, too -- your mammary arteries are now going to help your heart muscle recover -- but you'll have to do a lot -- " Caesar interrupted the paramed's ramblings. "No heart transplant?" "I guess not. You didn't need it. Your infarct was pretty small and -- Say, you're talking. Glad to hear you." The paramed gathered up his dressings tray and left.  Caesar smiled for a moment. If he still had his own heart -- then his without an eye. Tapper hummed placidly. He couldn't blame JemB transplant. Business ethics. The was to supply autotransplant tissues. To everyone in Organ Banks no human rights until they fulfilled the business ethic. Then, if viable, they became human beings -- orphans. Naked nuclei with a legacy. Naturally Library had no record of his childhood prior to enucleation-Little Caesar's existence began on the day he lost his eye. On that day he paid off his debt -- the price for existence -- and "went it alone." H ealer saw him a few more times -- prescribed a program of endurance exercises on a bedside bicycle-ergometer. Caesar pedaled against calibrated increases in resistance until he could maintain an oxygen consumption of # mlmin. He remained sullen and refused to look at the window. The sounds of children playing wore him down. "Take me back up to Jen-B," he asked. Tapper brightened. "All taken care of. As soon as you're ready. Healer has filed duplicate orders with us. You can convalesce just as well in space." Better, thought Caesar. As he walked to scooter he stole a glance at the playground and saw himself. Same red hair, freckles -- and the ball. The left eye patch and the disobedient ball. Tears filled both of Caesar's eyes. "Anywhere special you want to go? asked Jen-B cheerily. Caesar settled back in his couch and closed his eyes. "Let's go as far away as we can -- try for dutyout the Orion Arm," he said. He knew he was leaving his fouryear-old Genetic Carbon Copy behind -- in the capable hands of Library. Caesar had become the new Beast of #.  IF #Hi The Great Zambesi was pure gold underneath -- on the outside he was rotten! not the most pleasant man in really startling; he seemed to the world, and as the Great underplay it. But it was puzzling Zambesi he was not the greatest and it remained a puzzle even to magician. But he was a smart man those in the trade. This one prime and a good magician. He had the trick, equated him with the Real magnetism of a faith healer, the Masters who in general technique spirit and appearance of a rooster were a little out of his class. Actuand a deadly seriousness. He had ally, in the ultimate variation of it, the patter and the poise and he had it was the greatest trick, learned all that was learnable. He put Veronica into a box. Nor was he a mere pigeon-passer And when he opened the box again and card-caller. He had inherited, she was gone. That is all there was built up, bought and assembled as to it. The same thing had been perfull a repertoire as any Magic Man formed by dozens of others in in the business. many variations. And, as each must have, he had But Charles (the Great Zambesi) his specialty: a simple and sound Ghartel did not use any of those variations; not, certainly, the trap door -- for he had once performed the trick in a wire mesh twenty feet in the air. Besides, he was a cut above the trap-door men. After showing the empty box he would always take it apart board by board, and pass the boards around for all to handle. He would then assemble it once more into a box, clamp down the cover, unclamp it again, open it, and Veronica would get out of the box. The Great Boffo swore that the girl never stepped into the box at all. The Great Buffo, however, could not duplicate the trick. Nor could the Great Thaumaturgos, nor the Great Zebdo. All of them could make girls disappear from boxes, #T course, and could do it in more showy fashion. But, though it was the same thing to the audiences, it was not the same thing to themselves. Their tricks were known to each other and were obvious to any magic man. The special trick of ZambesiChartel was not understood and this gave him stature. The only men in the world who do not secretly believe in magic are the magicians, but there was something about the doings of the Great Zambesi that sowed doubt in them. The Great Vespo, indeed, claimed that he knew how it was done. But Vespo, though brillant, was an old man and was given to extravagant claims. The explanation that Charles (the Great Zambesi) Chartel gave to his audiences will not be given here. Should we repeat it, we would not be believed; we would be laughed at -- and we are sensitive. We have not the magnetism of Zambesi to carry off such an outlandish claim as his even though it should be true -- and it was. (Actually he said that he sent Veronica down into the Ocean and that he called her back again from that Ocean!) However, this isn't about the disappearance of Veronica; it is about a matter quite the opposite. And the opposite of the disappearance of Veronica was the appearance of someone who differed from her as much as possible. T his carfie about at the TriState Fair when the New Arena was quite new. The crowd was spirited and the Great Zambesi was in full form. The lighting was perfect and Veronica shone like a jewel set in gold as she stepped into the box that was set up on blocks, clear of the stage. Zambesi closed the box and the crowd had the true feeling of magic about to happen. And then, with perfect timing, Zambesi-Chartel threw back the front cover as to reveal the box -- empty. We will be hornswitched if that box was empty! But what rolled out of the box IF was not Veronica. It was the most woebegone scarecrow of a clown ever seen, the saddest looking man who ever stumbled over his own two feet. "Holy hamadryads, cramoise, where did you come from?" Zambesi-Chartel breathed without understanding his own words. The man out of the box was a hobo from a hundred years ago. He wept and wiped his nose with his hand. He had trouble with falling pants and broken shoes and a coat whose sleeve avoided arm. The little clown was good and there was real pathos in his silent humor. "You've got to get out of here, cnaufer," Chartel hissed at the little man again and again. "Who are you and how did you'get here? Off with you now, cathexis, you're fouling up the act." But the little man avoided Chartel who would have killed him in all sincerity. Finally Chartel in his despair closed the box loudly, then opened it again and brought Veronica out of it. But that didn't get rid of the little tramp. He was still cavorting about the stage and he was good. Listen, he was dressed in old black pants and a torn undershirt and one suspender and he walked about the stage. Then he had on a red sweater and a burglar's cap and black glasses. He still walked about the stage and suddenly he was splendid in evening clothes and monocle. Nobody had done that before. He became Joe College; he became the man in the charcoal-tan suit; he became an old rowdy-dow on the loose with pearl-gray vest and yellow gloves. Then he became a hobo again -- but of a different and worse vesture than before. "Go away, cistugurium," Veronica whispered angrily, "please go away. You're not supposed to be in the act. Who are you anyhow?" Nobody else had ever completely changed his garb six times in a minute and a half while hobbling about the stage with his hands in his pockets. Nobody else, transmuted his shoes from brown to black as he walked in them. The expression of the little rnan was pathetic and many eyes misted as they watched him. Then, before the act had begun to drag, the little man wobbled over and fell flat on his face in the box. Zambesi-Chartel closed it and stood poised over it in an intensity of fear and hope. Then he opened the box again. The little man was gone. Zambesi-Chartel took the box apart board by board and he left it apart. Well, it had been a good act with an added element... But Charles (the Great Zambesi) Chartel didn't know how he had done it this time -- or if he was the one who did it. The trick had 'always been to make Veronica disappear and appear; there sure hadn't been any little clown in the act before. "Damn that cressanges anyhow," Chartel grumbled. He was puzzled. He knew that little man -- and yet he didn't. L ater that night at the Pep' perpot some of the people ate and talked. There were Chartel himself and Veronica; there was Captain Carter who had the trained bears; there were the three Lemon sisters, Dolly, Molly, and Polly. Then another one was with them -- for the little man was sitting there and sniffling. He hadn't been there before and he hadn't come in. "Shall I order for you, claud?" Molly Lemon asked solicitously. But a filled plate was already there and the little man began to eat. He grinned and he grimaced. He was wearing horn-rim glasses and then he was wearing pincenez. He had a grin that came shyly as though he were trying it out for the first time. "clarence is so cute," said Dolly Lemon. "We will adopt him into our act if Chartel doesn't want him." There was an empty five-cigar carton on the table. The little man picked it up and it was full. Well, Chartel could duplicate that; probably you could yourself, but it would take prop and preparation. The little man pulled a stogie from the carton, puffed on it and it was lit. This also could be done; there are few tricks that cannot be duplicated. "If you are joining the act, cletus, and it seems as though you are," said Chartel wondering, "you will have to clean up a little." "Must I really?" asked curt but he obliged at once. He had become as immaculate a dandy as anyone ever saw. "Captain Carter," he said, "I see from your pocket bulge that you are a drinking man. I ask you to share it with us." "It's empty an hour since," Captain Carter muttered sadly. "It wasn't always empty," said cylix, the little man. "Let me see if I can restore it." "The last time a magician filled an empty whisky bottle for me -- and it was none other than old Zambesi-Chartel here -- the stuff was not potable. It was the most horrendous rock dew ever distilled." "This will be potable," said celiter -- and the bottle filled. Its content was gloriously potable. It put new life into the party and all of them, except ChartelZambesi, had a wonderful time. And if you don't think you can have fun with a reanimated bottle of whisky and Veronica and the three Lemon sisters you must have a different and more staid definition of fun.Oend," said Captain Carter IF when the small hours were half grown. "All good things do not have to end," said cajetan, the little man, who had been enjoying himself on Polly Lemon's lap. "The world shriveled when your thought was first put into words. Good things can go on forever, except that -- now and then -- they must be temporarily adjourned. As long as we understand that partings are only temporary." "Oh, we understand that, cuiller," said the, three Lemon sisters. So they temporarily adjourned the party. But later -- and this was after the sun itself was up -- Chartel and cyprian were finally alone. "We will have to have an explanation," said Chartel. "Who are you?" "You have no idea, Charles? Did you not take me out of the box? I thought you would know. Did you not call me up?" "I doubt I did. Do not try to hoax an old hoaxer. Where did you come from that first time? The stage was not trapped and you were not intruded with my knowledge." "Was I not? You told the audience how it was done. You said you .called me up out of the Ocean." "That is my patter -- but it doesn't apply to you. Dammit, ching-chi, where'd you get the Chinese robes and grow that little beard so fast? And how do you make them both change colors so neat? No, chawan, I never called any such fish as you out of the Ocean." "In that case I will leave, since I am here through a misunderstandmg. "Stay a bit, cyfaill. In my patter that is the way I make the girl disappear. How could it make you appear?" "Charles, I've heard you explain the principle dozens of times. I was not in the box. But in a little while I would be in the box. So we adjust the box to a near moment in the future and I am in the box." "There's a lacuna in your logic, clunis," Chartel said. "Hey, how can you turn into a Hottentot so easily? And not into a real Hottentot either, coya -- but into what I would call an old burlesquestage idea of a Hottentot." "You always did have a good imagination, Charles," said chabiari. He took up an empty glass, shook it, and it was filled again. "You're my master there, cosmos," said Chartel. "I couldn't duplicate that without props and you've done it three times. How?" "By our own theory that we worked out so long ago, Charles. I shift it only a little in time and it is done. Anything that has once been full can be filled again by taking it back to the time of its plenitude." "Chester, you have a patter that won't quit. But, if it worked -- the idea would be a good one." "It does work, Charles. I thought we knew that. We have used it so long." "You talk and talk, collard," said Chartel. "But I still do not know how you can change your whole appearance so easily and often." "Why, Charles, we are protean," said coilon. "That is the sort of man we are." Finnerty, the manager of the show, spoke to Chartel about the little man. "Your brother from the old country has put new life into the act," he said. "Keep him in it. We haven't mentioned money -- and I am seldom the one to bring up the subject -- but we can settle on a figure. Will it be payable to him or to you?" "It will be payable to me," said Charles (the Great Zambesi) Chartel. Confused he was, but he always knew the top and bottom side of a dollar. Finnerty and Chartel settled on a figure. have been taken for X my brother from the old country," Chartel told colin a bit later, "and I can s,ee why. I wondered whom you reminded me of. Oh, stop turning fnto a rooster! If you were shaved and combed -- say, that was quick, contumace! The resemblance would be, is, even closer. You do look like me; you are an extremely handsome man. But I did not know that I had a brother, compuesto, and I do not know what country the old country is -- since I was born on Elm Street in Springfield." "Perhaps 'brother' is a euphemism for something even closer, Charles; and the 'old country' may have a special meaning for us. Is it not the name for what is on the other side of your 'Ocean'?" "columkill, you are as phony as -- well, metaphor fails me -- you are as phony; as myself," said Charles Chartel. Sometimes the little man was frightening in his wild actions. There wasn't a mean bone in him, and he was almost universally liked. But he did act on impulse. For him, to think was to act. It was good that everybody liked him; if they hadn't they'd have hanged him high. And always he would multiply things. Chartel begged for his secret. "We could be rich, cogsworth, really rich," Chartel voxd plead. "But we are already rich, Charles. Nobody has ever had such a rich and perfected personality as we have. You still do not appreciate the greatness of our trick, Charles, though we thought about it for years before we were able to dp it. It's the noblest illusion of them all. Now IF we are citizens of an abounding world and everything in it is ours. That is to be rich." "consuelo, you are a bleeding doctrinaire. I did not ask for a lecture. I only ask that you show me how to make a hundred dollars grow where one grew before. I say that is to be rich." "I've shown you a hundred times, Charles, and you look for more than is in it. You take a thin old wallet that once new fatness. You restore it to its old state, empty it and restore it again, and so you accumulate. But why do you want money?" "It is just that I have a passion for collecting it, courlis." "Collecting we can understand, but the true collector will have no desire for duplicates. Understandably we might want a bill of each size -- a one, a five, a ten, a fifty, -- but we avoid that which once we prized -- the ten-thousand dollar bill. The avid people have spoiled it for us. But you have not the true collectors' spirit, Charles." "I have the true moneycollectors' spirit, clendon. Why cannot I duplicate your feats in this?" "The only reason I can figure, Charles, is that you're just too duck-knuckled dumb -- and it hurts me to say that about one of ourselves." B ut Zambesi-Chartel got a new set of ideas when he saw the trick that cormorant did with an old hat. It was at a rummage sale at which charleroi looked in out of curiosity -- he was curious about everything. "What a pixie must have worn this!" he exclaimed. "What a pixie!" c held the hat in his hands. And then he held the head in his hands. It was something like a pixie head and it was attached to the body of a young lady, cisailles kissed the young lady uncommonly about the temporal regions and pressed her to his sternum -- for to him impulse was the same as action. And she squealed. "Not that I mind -- but you did startle me," she chimed. "Who are you? Who, may I ask, am I? And how in pigeon-toed perdition did I get here?" "You are a pixie, young lady," said dough, "and as such you are likely to turn up anywhere. I had your hat, so what more natural than that I should call you up to fill it." "I am only a part-time pixie, cartier, but I am a full-time housewife. Supper will burn. How do I get back?" "You already are," said Callimachus. And she vvas. Or at least she was no longer there. And that was the beginning of the trouble; not for c, not for the young pixie lady, but it was the beginning of the trouble for Charles (Great Zambesi) Chattel. Charles knew how it was done now. One cannot continue doing a basic trick in the presence of such a sharpy as Charles Chartel without his learning it. And once he had learned how it was done there was no stopping him. Charles Chartel was not a bad man underneath, but on the surface he was a rotter. The natural complement of healthy greed that is in every man began to burgeon unnaturally in him. The hard core of meanness spread through his whole being. The arrogance of the rooster became that of the tyrant and envy and revenge burned in him with sulphurous fire. Chartel now had the key to total wealth, a key that would not only unlock all doors for him, but lock them against others. He set out to get control of the show. To do this he had to break Finnerty, the owner-manager, and buy him out after breaking him. Business had been'good and every night Finnerty had a full cash box. But before a thing is full, it is half full. And before that, it is a quarter full. Every night, just as Finnerty went to count the take, Zambesi-Chartel would play a trick on that box. And it would be only a quarter full. That was not enough to cover expenses. Finnerty had never been a saving man. He had always trod the narrow green edge between solvency and disaster. And in two weeks he was broke. Finnerty sold the show and the bookings to Chartel for ten thousand dollars. It made a nice wad in his pocket when he walked away from the show that was no longer his. But the meanness was running like a tide in Chartel and he wouldn't let it go at that. He emptied the wallet of Finnerty again, taking it back ten minutes in time. Finnerty felt a certain lightness, and he knew what it was. But he kept on walking. "It's lucky he left me with my pants," said Finn, "if he has. I'm afraid to look down." little family that was the show. Veronica felt herself abused and it wasn't imagination. The three Lemon sisters shivered to the chill of a harsh master. So did Carucchi the singer, and Cqptain Carter and his bears. And c, the little man who was the unwitting cause of it all, took to staying out of the way of the rampaging Chartel. For Zambesi-Chartel was now avid for praise, for money, for all manner of meanness. He accumulated coin by every variation of the new trick he had learned. He fobbed by it, he burgled the easy way. It is an awful and sickening thing to see a good man grow rich and respected. "But underneath he. isn't a bad man at all," Veronica moaned. "Really he isn't." IF "No underneath he is a fine man," said c, the little man of impulse. "Who should know better than I?" "Why, what do you mean, chadwick dear?" Veronica asked him. "The same as you. Charles is only bad on the surface. Underneath he's a fine fellow." But on the surface, Zambesi-Chartel sure did get rough. He demeaned the dignity of his fellow humans and made them eat dirt by the ton. He went on adrenalin drunks and thrived on the hatred in his own bloodstream. He became a martinet, a propagandist for the Hoop act. He registered Democrat. He switched from perfectos to panatelas and from honest whisky sours to perfidious martinis. He developed a snigger and horselaugh that, wilted pigweeds. "Oh, chiot," said Veronica, "we must do something to save him from himself. We are all involved with him." . "Who should know better than I?" conchy latus asked sadly. Chartel began to drink tea. He started to call a napkin a serviette and to omit every single syllable in "extraordinary." He switched allegiance from the noble National League to the sniveling American. He defrauded his laborers of their wages, he used scent, he ate vegetarian lunches, he read Walter Lippmann posthumously, he switched from Gumbo Hair Oil to begins to deteriorate it goes all the way and in every detail. Chartel had the Green Sickness, the inordinate love of money. He obtained the stuff, first by all means fair and foul, then by foul means only. But obtain it he did and it made a sniveling devil out of him. "But the man underneath isn't bad at all," Veronica insisted. "Who should know better than I?" caoine said. The Grand Canyon began with a prairie dog burrow and once it was started there was no stopping it. The downfall of Zambesi-Chartel began over a nickle and then the whole apparatus came down: his wealth, real and phantom -- his reputation -- the whole blamed complex of the man. It started with a fist fight he had with a blind newsdealer over a nickel. It ended with Chartel in jail, indicted, despised, shamed, despondent. Moreover, public feeling was strongly against him. Chartel was up on more than twenty counts of theft and pilfering and the nickel stolen from the blind man was by no means the least of them. He was up on a dozen counts of wage fraud. He was charged with multiplex pickpocketing'by device not understood'. They had him on faked bill of sale, dishonest conveyance. simple and compounded larceny, possession of stolen goods, barratry. "Looks like we have you on everything but chicken-stealing," the judge said at the hearing. "We have him on that, too," said the bailiff. "Five counts of it." "You would gag a gannet and make a buzzard belch," said the judge. "I'd crop your ears if that law still obtained. And if we can find a capital offense in all this offensiveness I'll have your head. It is hard to believe that you were once human." Chartel was shamed and sick of heart and felt himself friendless. That night he attempted to hang himself in his cell. The attempt failed for reasons that are not clear but not for any lack of effort on his part. It is worthy of note that the only persons who ever attempt to take their own lives are rather serious persons. "We will have to go to him at once, cristophe," said Veronica. "We must show him that we still love him. He'd sicken a jackal the way he's behaving, but he isn't really like that. The man underneath -- " "Hush, Veronica, you embarrass me when you talk like that," said ciabhach. "I know what a prince is the man underneath." L ittle c went to visit the Great Zambesi-Chartel in his cell. "It is time we had a talk," he j said.  "No, no, it's too late for" talk," said Charles Chartel. "You have disgraced us both, Charles," said celach. "It goes very deeply when it touches me." "I never even knew who you were, little c. You are protean and you are not at all plausible." "You called me up and you still don't know who I am, Charles? But this was our finest trick, our greatest illusion on which we worked subconsciously for years. We are our own masterpiece, Charles. And you didn't recognize it when it happened. You are the Magic Man but I am the Magic Man run wild. Aye, Charles, he's best when he runs wild." "Tell me, cicerone, who are you? Who am I?" Chartel begged. "What is my difficulty?" "Our difficulty, Charles, is that one of us became too serious," carnefice tried to explain. "To be serious is the only capital crime. For that, one of us will have to die -- but it isn't as though it were a serious matter. Every man is at least two men, but ordinarily the two are not at the same time bodied and apparent. Now you have marred our greatest trick -- but it was fun while it lasted." Little c signaled to Veronica and she came down the corridor with a bunch of boards under her arm. She was admitted to the cell by the puzzled jailor. IF "One of us will have to leave forever," coquelicot told Charles Chartel. "It isn't right for both of us to be around." "Ah, I will be sorry to see you go, chandos," said Chartel. "But who are you? I never could remember your name properly and there is something weird about that. You change forever in appearance and name. Who are yoU, little c?" "Only that. Just little c. Or shall we say sub-c? But we are too clever to be hounded into a hole like this, Charle. Remember! We were our own greatest trick, even if it failed." "What must we do now?" Chartel asked dully. "A simple transference," cogne said. He was building the box board by board. "I'm not a bad man underneath," Chartel sniveled. "I'm misunderstood." "No, we're a fine man underneath, Charles. I am the man underneath," said ciud. "Get in the box." " get in? I am Charles (the Great Zambesi) Chartel. You are only little c, sub-c, an aspect of myself. I will not get into the box!" "Get in, Charles," said cistercium. "It was a mix-up from the beginning. You were never meant to see the light of day. The wrong one of us has been running loose." "I'll fight. I'll claw. I'll rant!" "That's what a healthy subconscious is supposed to do," cludok said. "Get in!" "It's murder! I won't go! It's oblivion!" "No such thing, Charles. It isn't as though we weren't the same person. I'll still be here." Then little c and Veronica shoved the Great Zambesi Charles Chartel down into the box and closed the lid. In doing so, little c became himself the Great Zambesi. For, when he opened the box again, it was empty. And he took it apart board by board. The jailor said that he had to have his prisoner and Veronica gave him the boards. "There, there, doll," she said. "Make one out of them. Try real hard." And Veronica and the Great Zambesi left that place. wasn't the greatest magician in the world. He may have become the greatest, after he began to treat it lightly. People, he was good! There was never any act with such variety and fun in it. After his strange mid-life hiatus he achieved new heights. "And I'm certainly glad you overcame your personality difficulties," the loving Veronica told him later. "For a while there -- whoof! But r always knew you were a fine man underneath."   Continued from page #) best story of the year, best Retief story ever. Rivals Mark Twain. Eugene Reynolds Dear Ejler: If your writers will write stories with English settings, they ought to learn the English usage in the words "will," "shall," "would," and "should." Mr. Benford, in "#:# P.M., Oxford" IF. Sep.-Oct., #, pp. ##, I#ff) does it consistently wrong. Kaor, L. Sprague de Camp The British do the same to us. Dear Sir: In spite of doing a lot of reading, I rarely take the time to write about what I have read. I feel compelled to make an exception, however, and comment on Pinon Fall by Michael Bishop in the Oct-Nov. Galaxy. The delicately haunting theme of this story remained with me long after I had finished reading it -- not a commonplace occurrence. The writer shows a sensitivity of expression and a talent for original description not frequently encountered. I can still see "camels standing the snow." I look forward to reading more by Mr. Bishop. A Ibany, Georgia # I # Dear Mr. Jakobsson, To comment your four magazines: Blish's short novels are great. The latest in his Black Easter series was good, but I anticipated the punch line. My god! The Heinlein Serial is in Five parts? No, fourEd. That means another six months. Will you go hack on monthly schedules again? Galaxy is monthly againEd. IF is good too. Davidson, Garett, Eisenberg, Niven. It's great. How about having Van Vogt go outside the Silkies series. Step this up to monthly. Semi monthly. Weekly. I'll buy it. Worlds of Fanasy was excellent. Del Rey's story was as good an anything he ever wrote. All the shorts were very good to excellent. Walker between the Planes was good, but Norton was unreadable (but then, I don't particularly care for Mrs. Norton). Schedule this regularly. good. Smith good. All the shorts very good to excellent, except for Bridge. It was mediocre as a story and somewhat smutty (don't tell me about imagery.) Step this up to a regular schedule. Ratings (on scale of ten) Galaxy #.I , If #, Worlds of Fantasty #, and you had left out Bridge, and gotten some good artwork. Artwork is my beef. Gaughan is good, but you're overloading him. How about Finlay, or Rotsler. You're peaking the ten-year cycle. Take advantage of it. Universal looks big enough to get some decent distribution. Good luck. Hopejully, Robert Bryan Lipton IF The alien knew a humanity that humans had forgotten... ing Finmouth Race week. I was sitting in the lounge of the Hoversail Club, scotch-and-dry in hand and conscious of that dreamy, relaxed sensation of well-being which is half the enjoyment of sailing. It is, as they say, great when you stop. The panoramic, curved window of the club lounge gives a wonderful view of the bay and it is possible to watch a race from start to finish without shifting one's rear from the plush upholstery. My first race had gone well -- I have a little Dodger in the #square-foot class -- and I had finished third in the second race of the first day. The timewas twelve noon. I could,smell the lunch simmering in the club's kitchens. The weather was fine with a fair breeze. And I was not scheduled to sail again until five o'clock. Plenty of time for another drink, lunch, then a comfortable afternoon in interesting company until my race. Life was good; the office seemed light-years away. Conversation was muted; the drone of sailing talk was easy, familiar upon my ears. I was halflistening to a group nearby, too idle in my euphoria to join in the conversation but finding the talk a pleasant background to my appreciatioaof the day's third race. "He'll kill someone, one of tRese days." Naturally my attention was attracted as a sharp female voice cut through the murmur like a titanium keelblade. I wasn't the only one who noticed; conversation in the lounge stopped abruptly as some fifty people glanced at the speaker -- an embittered-looking forty-year-old in a too-tight sweater -- then at the race in progress to divine who the potential murderer was. The woman looked slightly abashed'as she caught my eye; she hastily resumed a more normal tone as she continued. "Ralph Streng, I mean. Just look at him now, he almost had that skimmer's stern off. You wouldn't expect a physician to sail like that -- almost as if he were trying to create trade for himself." She laughed harshly, aware that she was attempting to justify making herself the focus of attention. "Now, Lucy," a plump armchair yachtsman mumbled through his cigar. "You know very well you were making a play for him last year and got the brush-off. He's a good sailor, the Doc. Taking that son of his withhim today, too. There's a handicap for you." "What the hell's he trying to prove?" demanded the woman. "Whatever it is, it won't be at my expense. Widowers get selfish; they should remarry," she finished illogically. The conversation became general again as I watched the skimmers round the final marker IF and head for the finish. The boat with the red-striped sail had moved into the lead after an incredibly tight turn and obviously could not be caught. A few minutes later a cannon's boom and a scattered burst of applause signaled the end of the race. I had started my lunch by the time the recent contestants crowded noisily into the lounge. The dining room at the club is, in effect, a continuation of the lounge; a neat area of white tables for four and attentive, jacketedand-tied waiters. The view is the same; the sweep of the bay from Hart Point to the west merging into the estuary of the Fin to the east -- you can still watch the sailing while you work your way through the remarkably good lunch they serve. I was dining alone and had been the first to sit down -- I usually am. My wife informs me this is pure greed and evidence of my selfish nature, but I always tell her there is plenty for all and someone has to start first. It takes moral courage to be the first person into a large dining room full of predatory waiters...Once again I had proved myself right for, encouraged by my example, others Were now drifting in, sheeplike. At the next table waiters were bucketing Lucy and her escorts into chairs. "Ralph, darling!" she cried suddenly. "Come and join our table. Tell us about the race. Did that bastard Clarke try to cut you out at the marker? Congratulations, by the way." heavy build was threading his way through the tables in our direction. "Hi, Lucy," he murmured, inclining his large head gravely. "Afternoon, Fisher -- Zimmermann." He sat down and began to talk sailing, quietly. He was an impressive figure even when sitting, his powerful neck rising from a vast pullover; a'bove it a huge mane of gray hair. His blue eyes were sharp in a strong, weatherbeaten face. Naturally I overheard most of the ensuing conversation, which veered from sailing to fishing, biology, medicine and the forthcoming visit of the physicians' delegation from Canaral. "To study the origins of life," Streng was explaining. "It would appear that Earth is a very much younger planet than Canaral. They are also doing work on cancer research." "Do tell me, Ralph," Lucy asked with coy interest, "what do they look like?" Streng chuckled, a deep rumble. "I've no idea. It never occurred to me to wonder, believe it or not. I tend to look on fellow scientists as minds rather than bodies. All I know is they're about our size and bipeds. That information, my dear Lucy, was supplied by the immigration authorities when they asked me to put one of the team up at Cliffside."' He paused, aware of the effect of his words. "You mean you're going to have one staying with you?" The woman squealed. Her hand was resting on Streng's forearm. "He arrives Sunday night and will be staying until Friday." Lucy was regarding Streng through wide eyes. "Oh, Ralph, do ask me along to meet him. I've never met an alien. May I come one evening? I simply must meet him. Will he be green, do you think?" She giggled in a grotesque parody of girlishness. Beside her, the man called Zimmermann met my eyes, then raised his own to the ceiling in mock supplication as he lit his after-lunch cigar. I paid my .bill and left the dining room, glad that I was not able to number Lucy among my acquaintances and resolving that during the coming week I would make sure things stayed that way. Streng interested me, however; it was difficult to reconcile the mildmannered but compelling man in the dining room with a fiercely ruthless racing sailor. He had struck me as a man of sound common sense, which didn't tally with his disregard for personal safety -- and the safety of others -- when racing. Particularly as he had a young boy aboard with him. At the seaward side of the clubhouse, which is built into a cliffface, a steep flight of concrete steps leads down to the club jetty where the craft bobbed gently at anchor within the shelter of Finmouth breakwater. I descended with the idea of getting a bit of Jayne II with fuel so that I wouldn't have to do this at the last minute before the race, when there would be a queue at the pump. As I hauled on the rope, drawing Jayne II toward the jetty, I noticed Streng's boat, red-striped sail flapping idly, floating nearby. Sitting on the foredeck and gazing out to sea while he trailed a hand in the water was a boy of about twelve whom I took to be Streng's son. As Jayne II drifted past he looked around and, as his eye followed the line of the rope that stretched taut to my hand, he turned sideways and I saw his face. The eyes were slanted, his complexion pale. The nose was thick around the nostrils and the ears protruded lumpy from the head which, about the crown, was curiously flat. As he looked at me he smiled, loose lipped. He was a mongol. I wondered what kind of man could take such a boy sailing and take further risks by sailing dangerously. T here seemed to be some problem with Streng's Dodger. IF Maybe he hadn't had time to check it that day as he had previously been racing in the #square-foot Skimmer class. The judges, were giving him a rough time. for the gun, when the launch swept out from the jetty and stopped alongside Streng; apparently they had noticed some unaccountable drift. Now the rules at Race Week are strict and the judges meticulous. The motor which provides the hoversailer with lift must not exceed #cc and must not give any directional motion. Forward motion of the boat is provided entirely by the action of the wind on the sails as in oldtime sailboats and the handling is similar, except that the only part of the hoversailer actually touching the water is the thin keelblade. Given a moderate breeze, the craft can move very fast. It appeared that one of Streng's vanes had become displaced, causing the downthrust of air to emerge at an angle; the flippers of a frogman thrashed the surface as he probed beneath the craft, making adjustments. Strerig's expression was ominous as the other competitors, motors popping and boats riding easily, tacked around passing derisive comments. There is something peculiarly comic about the appearance of a lame, wallowing hoversailer. Eventually repairs were completed and the judges' launch roared off, the judges giving Streng a last, suspicious glance. A brief period of jockeying for position followed and then the race was underway. A tight bunch closehauled for the first buoy. Streng was to my starboard, his face set in concentration as he willed his craft to pull clear of the ruck. His son sat quietly in the small well just aft of the mast, smiling afid from time to time waving at the other competitors. The breeze had freshened and we were moving fast as we approached the first marker where we were to turn for a long, broad reach across the bay to the second marker, which signaled a straight run for home. Streng tacked to bring him closer to the marker for his turn, I followed and the rest of take a chance by trying something different. By now Streng and I were a couple of lengths ahead of the field; somehow I had felt it would come to this. I led him fractionally to the turn but he drifted to leeward as he went about, forcing me to drop behind. It was cleverly done and gained him a length. He didn't look in my direction -- he was staring ahead fixedly -- but he knew I knew what he had done. I felt a surge of blind rage but fought it down. There's no profit in losing your temper during a race. In any event, I knew I had him on the broad reach because, although our craft were evenly matched, he was carrying more weight. I was gaining as we swept for the final turn, despite having trouble with my equalizer. I wonder if seeing me fiddling with the controls gave Streng his idea. The equalizer is a device that directs extra pressure into the leeward side of the craft's cushion of air when the wind is coming from abeam, so that instead of heeling over she continues to ride upright, reaping the maximum advantage of the breeze. My equalizer was playing up; every now and then the boat would lurch perceptibly. Nevertheless I was gaining, inching up on Streng as he stared funously ahead, his thick gray hair flopping in the wind, his strong jaw set. The son was watching me vacantly and I heard Streng snarl at him, as the poor lad absently trailed his fingers in the water. We were neck and neck, no more than a handsbreadth separating our craft as we went for the turn. I had been calculating that there would be no need to jib, just a close turn around the buoy and a quick run for the finish; leaving Streng, with his extra weight, well behind. I was outside as we turned, marginally in the lead. I knew what followed was deliberate because I was watching Streng's face. His hand was on the equalizer control and, veering, his craft suddenly heeled violently. He uttered a shout of simulated alarm for the benefit of those behind. His boom lashed across towards me, the sail cracking in a thunderous jib. I flung up my arm, received a smashing blow on the elbow, felt the boats collide violently and was thrown into the low well. As I pulled myself up one-armed, sick with pain, I caught sight of Streng's fierce backward grin as he eased his boat into an unbeatable lead. I seemed to have lost the use of my arm. I thought it was broken. Gathering up the ropes onehanded I set in hopeless pursuit, steering with my foot, senseless with rage. tended to do; follow Streng into the club perhaps and dispute the result of the race with the judges. But I wouldn't have stood a chance; for one thing Streng was local and I was an outsider. There was also the point -- and this really rankled -- that he cut a far more impressive figure than I: I knew that his personal magnetism would carry the judges. One only had to remember the woman Lucy; she could dismember Streng from a distance, but once under the influence of those deep eyes and leonine impression of suppressed power and she fawned over him. At that moment, however, I IE could only think of getting to grips with the man and Wiping that overbearing confidence from his face with my one good hand. The cannon sounded with Streng twenty lengths ahead. To my surprise he continued on his course, leaving the club to port and making for the wide mouth of the Fin estuary. I followed, puzzled at his passing up the chance to bask in the congratulations of his fellow yachtsmen and assuming in my ignorance that maybe his conscience was troubling him. The mouth of the Fin is strewn with sandbanks; the boat with the red-striped sail was weaving its way through and I was closing, using Streng as a pilot. To our left lay the holiday resort of Finmouth, beyond which rose the cliffs and, now passing out of view, the Hoversail club. Further ahead the estuary narrowed between steep greenwooded slopes, the. still water colored with moored yachts of all sizes. I wondered how far upstream Streng's house lay; the tide was receding and mudflats appeared at the water margins. Jayne II slowed as we reached the narrower reach and I was glad of the following wind; I wouldn't have liked to beat against that strong current. Streng had glanced over his shoulder and seen me following. His course became erratic and I guessed he was trying to lead me aground on a mudfl#. Reaching forward I winched up the keelblade so that the small rudder became the only part of the craft actually touching the water. With the wind behind, this does not cause any significant loss of control. We passed a small village of pink-and-white cottages clustered about the water's edge under the shadow of the hills and I saw what I took to be Streng's house. Set among the trees on the steep slope beyond the village, it was the last sign of habitation before the estu-. ary narrowed, about a mile farther, into a shallow race tumbling from the distant moorland. Steps dropped from the house to a ramshackle wooden landing stage. By now I was close and saw what happened clearly. Streng dropped the sail deftly, steering straight for the stage and relying on the current to slow him. At the last moment he cut his motor, his craft sank to water. He jumped to the stage, holding a painter which he made fast, then turned to assist his son ashore. The boy leaped, grabbing for his father's hand, but missed his footing. Streng, reaching and overbalancing, tottered with flailing arms and in an instant the two of them were floundering in the muddy water, drifting with the current away from the landing stage. Handicapped by my injiired arm, I made a wide pass in their direction, then dropped everything and threw a rope to Streng, who had drifted near. He scrambled aboard quickly, dripping. "For God's sake get the boy," be gasped, plucking at the tiller and getting in my way. "He can't swim. Hurry, man!" Looking back on the episode, I wonder how I restrained myself. Streng had smashed my arm and made it a near impossibility to control the boat. He had taken a mongol child sailing without a life-jacket. He had been responsible for the boy's falling in. Yet here he was giving orders on my own boat. Did he think I wanted the boy to drown? But at the time it was different. Streng's face was contorted with fear, the boy was struggling twenty yards away and the situation was desperate. "You'd better take over," I said mildly, moving forward. "I can't move my left arm." In a flurry of ropes and legs we changed places and Streng, whipping in the sail like a maniac, whirled the craft around and began to beat against the wind in short, qick tacks. "Oh, God -- oh, God -- " he muttered as he tacked swiftly, his huge head jerking this way and that with each turn, his eyes fixed on his struggling son. "It's all right, Tom, it's all right!" he shouted desperately, his voice echoing up the wooded slopes. "Just keep up. Keep up. I'm coming! Oh, God -- " His lips were trembling and his hand was bone-white on the tiller. "Easy, Tom, easy," I said, leaning out and grasping the boy under the arms as we swept by, drawing him across the foredeck, where he lay gagging and coughing. Streng pushed me aside roughly and an agonizing pain stabbed my elbow. "It's all right now, Tom," he murmured, kneeling on the foredeck and patting the boy on the back. "Everything's ail right now. We'll soon have you home and in bed -- Get the bloody boat under control," he snarled suddenly, glaring up at me. "Back to the house, quickly." Now that the crisis was past, this was too much for me. I stood up, bracing myself against the mast as the hoversail, motor puttering, headed aimlessly across the estuary. "Just who the flaming hell do you think you are?" I asked as quietly as I could manage. "What right have you got to give me orders after what's happened?" His eyes were frightening, redrimmed. "I said get this bloody boat back to the house!" he shouted. "Are you blind, man? Can't you see this boy's a mongol? Don't you know how easily he'll get pneumonia?" "No, I don't know," I replied, with forced, enraged callousness. After all, you're the doctor, not me. Maybe you should have IF thought of this before you took him sailing." He stared at me. Suddenly his shoulders relaxed. He blinked and his eyes were calmer. "Would you mind getting us back to the house?" he asked quietly. "Perhaps you'd like to come up for a drink and I'll take a look at that arm of yours." Obediently I seated myself at the tiller. I concluded his examination of my elbow. "Jarred a nerve, I expect. You may get a bit of a bruise there later." "Thanks," I replied sarcastically. Streng left to get changed -- the boy had already been taken in hand by the housekeeper, a gaunt old maid named, oddly, Sylvia -- and I relaxed in the deep armchair, gazing around the room and sipping Johnny Walker. It was obviously, a man's room. An old-fashioned open fire blazed in an untidy hearth and the mantelpiece was littered with pipes, tobacco jars, paperbacks and a glass bottle in which an obscene lump of flesh was suspended in liquid. More books on the shelves which flanked the fireplace; mostly medical tomes with an occasional adventure story. I got up and wandered about, my footsteps cushioned by deep carpet. The chairs were leather, brassstudded and old; the corners of the room held assorted items of sporting equipment -- a bag of golf clubs, half a pair of oars to which was tied a pair of rowlocks, an ancient, suicidal twelvebore and a pair of tennis shoes which looked, if anything, even older. There was the walnut cabinet which held an astonishing array of liquor, the small bookcase with 'the model Cutty Sark on top -- everything, the complete bachelor setup in kit form, somehow a little to comprehensive to be true. I didn't believe it. I sat down again, this time at the window, and watched real life in the form of an elderly rowing boat whose occupants were genuinely, if abortively, spinning for bass. This room was fake. The stuff had been placed there, not Just allowed to accumulate but placed to create an effect; maybe to convince Streng himself that he was a normal G.P. living a normal, comfortable bachelor existence. "How do you like my little place?" He had entered quietly and spoke quietly, uttering the conventional words pleasantly, smiling. "How about a refill?" "Thanks." I handed him my glass. "It's very -- comfortable. You have varied interests." He gave me a curious look as he bent to fiddle with the bottles. "I keep myself amused," he replied. "And Sylvia is very capable." "She looks after Tom?" I ventured. He passed that one over and made a brief but extraordinarily convincing apology for the race episode. The man was smooth and my temper, which had begun to rise again at the sight of him, ebbed. After the near-drowning, arguing didn't seem quite so important. "Tell me," he resumed abruptly, passing me a full glass and sitting down, "what were your thoughts when you saw me fall in the river? I mean, what did you really think? Be honest, now." He grinned disarmingly. '# thought it served you damned well right." "Naturally. So why did you pull me out?" "Because you might have drowned, of course. And your son, too." "That may be obvious to you, but I would like to know the true reason why you pulled me out of the water." He regarded me quizzically, puffing volumes of pipe smoke. I felt on the defensive, but was amused by his persistance. "Because I believe in the sanctity of human life," I replied. "Try again." Damn the man; I felt compelled to have another go. "Because I feel it's the thing to do, to rescue another sailor in difficulties; or anyone else, for that matter." "No," he said calmly, smiling. "Because I was scared that if I didn't rescue you -- you would be on my conscience for the rest of my life." "Getting warmer. Do go on, Mr. Warren. This is interesting." I felt as though I were taking part in an experiment; an important one, from Streng's point of view. "Because," I said at last, "I was frightened that someone might see me letting you drown." He laughed, a deep, reassuring sound. "Excellent. You're quite right, of course; but it took you a long time to get there." "You don't think of these things right away," I said with sarcasm. "We all do just what we want to do, Mr. Warren, always. We can't blame a thief for being a thief, or a to save me and at the same time you didn't want to save me. Quickly, so quickly you were not aware of it, you weighed the pros and cons. And you decided you wanted to save me more than you didn't want to. It was the least unpleasant of the possibilities. The easiest way out. You would have hated to be branded a murderer." "What about you, at the final marker buoy?" I asked. "I wanted to win the race. I had no fear of being caught out, and I didn't know you from Adam." "You're Just bloody immoral." "Amoral, Mr. Warren. We all are but I admit it." He chuckled. Against my better, or moral. IF judgment, as the evening wore on I began to like the man. He was trying to be honest. We sat drinking scotch and talking through a haze of blue smoke while night fell outside and the firelight took over, throwing crimson flickers among the leather and walnut. "Have you ever read Canaral philosophy?" he was asking, gazing into the bowl of his pipe. "The immigration people mailed me a book, so I wouldn't drop any gaffes with this weirdo they're sending me. It's fascinating. They're telepathic and, so they say, are all members, cells if you like, of one overall being. So they naturally act for the good of one another. Unlike us. Imagine that. No murders, no theft, no adultery. A totally ethical community." He laughed. "Bloody boring if you ask me." I smiled. I was becoming attuned to his way of thinking. T he following day was Sunday and, due to the centuries-old view of Finmouth Town Council that competitive open-air sport is sinful, there was no racing. The faithful gathered at the club as usual, however, and the day was spent in practice and tuning up the craft for the week to come. Ralph Streng appeared after lunch, having motored down with the intention of sailing his second craft back to Cliffside for minor adjustments. "By the way," he said. "Do you fancy the idea of coming up for a bite of dinner at my place tonight? Sylvia's a passable cook and I think you'll find it interesting; our visitor from Canaral should be there." I accepted his invitation gratefully; I was staying at a small guest house in Finmouth and had found the inmates a dull crowd; there seemed to be no middle ground between elderly women and young, noisy families. And I was looking forward to meeting the alien. I arrived at Cliffside at nine o'clock, later than I had intended, having missed my way several times in the dark, winding lanes. Streng greeted me at the door. "Glad to see you could make it, Arthur." He was grinning secretively. "Our visitor's arrived," he added, dropping his voice. "Not quite what I expected, although he is a biped." He ushered me into his den, study or whatever he called it. "Come and have a Tio Pepe before dinner. Chandi, meet Mr. Arthur Warren, a friend of mine. A fellow yachtsman." A wraithlike creature uncoiled from a chair and took my hand gently. Slow-moving and softspoken, he stood about six foot six, very slender and looking somehow pliable, like soft putty. His hand was warm and dry to the touch. "I'm very pleased to meet you, Mr. Arthur Warren," Chandi murmured. "Call him Arthur," Streng urged. "We got on Christian name terms last night, after some initial difficulty." "Arthur." The alien sat down slowly. He was dressed in a closefitting coverall of silken material which accentuated his slender form. His features were reassuringly humanoid. "So you -- ah -- race boats, too. You compete. How very interesting." I gathered that the concept of sporting competition -- possibly any sort of competition -- was new to his way of thinking. He asked a number of questions politely, listening attentively to our replies. Chandi and Streng, I thought with some amusement, represented completely opposite types. I wondered how they would make out in the next few days. "We do not compete on Canaral," Chandi was explaining. "The necessity does not arise. We are a very old race, you know, and possibly a little set in our ways. Unadventurous, you would say. We research, we philosophize -- but how can we compete, when we are telepathic among ourselves and all members of the same mother body, just as the individual physical cells are members of our physical bodies?" "How about overpopulation?" asked Streng. "Surely the real basis for competition is the search for -- and defense of -- living room and food supplies?" "We do not suffer from overpopulation. That is a disease, if you will forgive me, of Earth and similar young cultures." "Euthanasia," I heard Streng mutter. "Do you put your old people to sleep -- kill them, I mean, and -- " he asked with a very obvious effort -- "destroy malformed and idiot children at birth?" There was a long silence. At last Chandi spoke. "It is too easy to destroy, Ralph; maybe that is the trouble with Earth. The really difficult and worthwhile thing is to create." Over dinner the talk turned naturally to Streng's curious views on human psychology. "It's all a question of relative advantage to the individual," he was explaining as we sipped our liqueurs. "To take a simple example -- theft. Let us say I see a camera in a shop window. I can take it while the shopkeeper's attention is elsewhere. But my desire to do so is more than counterbalanced by the fear of consequences if somebody sees me. So I don't take the camera. "But suppose I found nhe camera, say in the street, and no one saw me pick it up. Even if the address of the owner were in the case the chances are I would keep it." "How do you explain the frequent return of lost property?" I asked. "Easy. Either the finder doesn't IF want the article at all, or he desires the goodwill of the true owner more than the article itself. A desire for the approval of others plays a big part in our makeup." "Don't you ever experience a feeling of obligation to return a favor, Ralph?" asked Chandi in some amusement. "Never," he replied flatly. "But I admit that I desire the approval of my fellow men, which is the same thing. I'm working on it, though." "You may become the next step in evolution, Ralph." I laughed. "Homo Independent." He looked at me, huge head strong with shadow and deep eyes serious in the candlelight. "Who knows?" he said softly. "Just imagine the truly honest world, where no man is held responsible for his actions because all men realize that such actions are determined by circumstance alone. Because every man is entirely and admittedly a slave to his desires. The concept of evil would be meaningless. Evil would not exist." "Neither would good," observed Chandi gravely. glad to see that I had at least made some small impact on Ralph Streng. Apparently acknowledging the dangers involved, he no longer took Tom sailing with him. I mentioned this to Chandi on the Saturday afternoon, the last day of Race Week, as we sat together in the club lounge. "Our friend Ralph is in some torment," the alien observed in his gentle tones. "He desires to prove that, despite all evidence to the contrary, the boy is a normal human being, capable of taking part in normal pursuits. Yet at the same time he wishes the boy dead, because that is in accordance with his strange beliefs. He will never speak of Tom in casual conversation." Somewhat shaken by this outspoken summary I said nothing but watched the boats as they streamed across the bay. The club members had grown accustomed to Chandi by now and his presence drew few curious glances. Streng was racing; lying third, he was showing little of the fire that characterized his sailing in company with Tom. Nevertheless, I noticed the red-sailed craft gain a place at the turn by a ruthless, though permissible, piece of bluff. A slight mixup occurred at the final marker and Streng emerged from the ruck with a clear lead, which he held to the finish. As the boats drifted in toward the jetty I saw oae of the competitors, a mild-mannered little man by the name of Banner with whom I had occasionally had a drink, gesticulating furiously and quite out of character. His boat was undertow. "God damn it, man!" Banner was shouting as the group entered the lounge, "you could have killed me! You saw what he did -- " he addressed one of the group -- "cut close and jibbed at the turn. Deliberate, it was -- " The small man was trembling with indignation. Ralph Streng ignored the shrill protestations, pausing at my chair. "Hello, there, Arthur," he said. "Care for another drink?" Banner hovered at his elbow, yelping like an ill-tempered puppy. I said I would have a scotch and, as Streng turned for the bar. Banner stood in his way. "I asked you whether you had any intention of paying for the damage to my boat," he repeated, pale with rage. Streng paused, at last acknowledging Banner's presence. He eyed the small man up and down in contemptuous silence. I don't think there was a person in the lounge who wasn't watching. At last he spoke, quietly. "My own opinion, Mr. Er -- , is that if a man is frightened of the risks involved, he shouldn't race. Particularly if he doesn't have the financial means to pay for normal damage incurred." Was it the supreme confidence of Streng or Banner's palpable air of futility or both? I don't know, but I saw a number of people nodding in accord with Streng's statement and there was a' general murmur of agreement. Beside me I felt Chandi stiffen slightly; he was watching Streng closely... "Our friend Ralph is a vefy powerful man," he whispered. "But he has his weak point. He would never believe that the average human is too considerate to hit him where it really hurts." Banner, almost in tears, was spluttering incoherently; a friend took him by the elbow, led him quietly away and stood him at the bar with a large scotch. He took the glass and drank automatically, eyes still on Streng. "Here you are, Arthur." Streng handed me my drink and sat down. "Good race, that." "What was all the row about?" I asked curiously. "That little rabbit got in my way at the final turn and forced me to jib. My boom carried his shrouds away as it swung over. His mast came down. Who is he anyway?" He turned, gazing at Banner who stared back furiously. "Is he a member? I don't recall seeing him before. Not that he has a memorable face." "To sum up," I remembered something from a week ago, "You don't know him from Adam and you jibbed your boom into him." "Something like that." Streng smiled slowly. "Happens all the time, doesn't it?" "Excuse me." Chandi spoke. "I don't quite understand this. In human psychology there is a distinction between harm coming to IF someone you don't know and to someone you do?" "There is." I answered before Streng could utter one of his theoretical generalizations. "Your race, being telepathic and in intimate sympathy with one another, probably wouldn't understand. I can't really explain it myself." "I can." Streng jumped in. "Look at it this way, Chandi. Given a spaceline disaster, my only reaction is morbid interest as to whether any death-toll records may be broken. But if Arthur, here, died, I would feel regret at the loss of a source of intellectual stimulation -- " Which was nice to know. well. We had dined on local roast duck and a couple of bottles of Montrachet. Now we sat in the study, sipping champagne in honor of Chandi's imminent departure, gazing into the fire and talking in desultory, well-fed fashion. "I cannot overemphasize, Chandi," Streng was saying, slightly drunk, "the selfishness of the human animal. Even the emotion of sympathy is the fear that a similar misfortune may befall oneself." "Sometimes, Ralph." the alien's tone was soft and slow, tired, "I feel sorry for you. How do you explain that?" "Well, I tell you one thing. Chandi; I'll be sorry to see you go. And Arthur here. What time do they come to pick you up?" The alien glanced at the clock. "In about an hour's time." "Time for another." As Streng rose to refill the glasses the door swung open and Tom rushed in, ran across to Chandi and clung to his knee. He looked around at us with his slanting, pink-rimmed eyes, then buried his face in the alien's silken clothes. I regarded Streng anxiously; it was clear that he tried to keep Tom away from people; it would be a pity if Streng made a scene on this last night. But Streng, mellow with wine, was smiling. "You should be in bed, Tom," he admonished gently. "Chandi," the boy said. It was the first word I had heard him utter. The alien was watching Streng. "In all your arguments, Ralph, there's one human trait you've failed to mention," he observed gravely. "The one saving, unselfish trait. That is the love of a mother -- or a father -- for a child."  The room was suddenly very still. The occasional crackle from the fire sounded loud. At last Streng spoke. "It's born in iis," he said harshly. "For the purpose of protecting and furthering the species." "I must take issue with you. In this case that does not apply. Earlier this week you explained mongolism to me -- that extra chromosome in each body cell which makes all the difference. I know, and you know, that to all intents this boy is not a member of the species. He and his kind are creatures apart. They are not human in the accepted sense of the word. There is no rational cause for you to love him." "Damn you," muttered Streng. "Leave me alone, will you?" He sat down abruptly, staring at Tom. "No, you must listen to me, Ralph," insisted the alien. "I've been watching you closely this last week and I've felt genuine, irrational sympathy for you, seeing you torturing yourself to prove something. To prove that, twelve years ago when-you lost God, you lost your humanity as well. And all the time burning at the back of your mind is that terrible guilt; you're a doctor, but you can't cure your own son." Streng said nothing. He sat with his head in his hands as if trying to shut out the truth of what he was hearing. He gazed at the tumbling, sparkling embers and the crimson glow shot his gray mane with gold. I took another sip of champagne nervously; the acid bubbles rasped my tongue and effervesced down my throat, Chandi was leaning back in his chair, a slender hand resting on Tom's fair head. From time to time the boy uttered small, unintelligible murmurs. "But I can cure Tom," said Chandi. told us. He gave the boy a drink of some thick fluid, yellowish; then brought a rectangular piece of apparatus into the room, set it down and plugged it in. All the time he explained in his soft, slow tones. "The fluid rapidly permeates the system and is absorbed into each cell. As you know, Ralph, the main purpose of our visit to Earth was to study malignant cellular diseases. You may not appreciate the connection between mongolism and cancer -- but a connection there is. Both relate to the composition of the cells, a study which has always interested us, back on Canaral; due in part to the composition of our own unique society -- " As he spoke he was attaching a multitude of electrodes to various parts of the boy's body. Tom lay still on the sofa, watching Chandi silently. "I came to your house for a specific purpose; to study Tom, a fact which for obvious reasons I was not able to tell you until now. There are some subjects on which even the hardiest extrovert is sensitive. I will now pass an electrical charge through Tom's body which will react upon the fluid I gave him, an organic substance which itself has an affinity IF to that single extra chromosome -- Don't be afraid, Ralph. No harm will come to the boy." He threw a switch -- it seemed an irreversible action and I noticed Streng stiffened in his chair. Chandi left the apparatus and sat down. "In about ten minutes you should begin to see a change," he said. "Some of the changes may be sudden and I must remind you that every cell in the boy's body is undergoing partial destruction. Do not be alarmed. After all, as I told you last Sunday," here he looked directly at Streng, his eyes unfathomable, "it is a simple matter to destroy -- " Streng did not reply; indeed, he hadn't spoken for a long time. He had merely shifted his position so that his eyes were on Tom, brooding. Heaven knows what fundamental reorganization of concepts, what tearing emotional stress was taking place in that strange mind. He looked like a man close to a complete breakdown; his eyes were hollow and a tic plucked at his cheek. I followed his eyes and presently witnessed a miracle. Tom's fingers were changing shape. The stumpy mongoloid hands were lengthening, the digits becoming straight, slender. I looked at his face, saw the thick, small ears becoming finer, the lobes distinct. Slowly the nose gained shape, and the eyes -- The brows appeared darkly, like Streng's. The eyelids lost their slant, the whole aspect of the face became, slowly and wonderfully, transfigured. Much later Chandi disconnected the apparatus. I don't know what I expected; maybe for Tom to address us in normal tones. I do know I would have been scared stupid if he had. But he sat up quietly, looking at us. He stood and went over to where Streng was still sitting. "Dad," he said and took his therms hand. Chandi began packing his equipment. "He still has the mental age of a three-year-old," he said. "You must be patient with him, Ralph. He'll learn quickly, now." I poured myself a scotch; my hand was trembling violently and the bottle beat a nervous tattoo on the rim of the glass. There was nothing I could say and Streng appeared to be in a stupor. I was relieved to see the lights of a car swing down the drive. I went to the front door to delay the arrivals until some sort of normalcy was restored to the house. The car .was large, discreetly ostentatious. The doors shut with an expensive clunk and the unnervingly dreamlike sensation brought about by recent events was heightened by the sight of the trio which confronted me. One was human, uniformed, a chauffeur. "Dr. Streng?" he asked. "My name's Warren," I answered. "Dr. Streng is inside." The other two were large, powerful aliens. "Alini and Tubon," introduced the chauffeur. "For Chandi, of the Canaral delegation and scientific investigation team." I motioned them in, moving aside to allow the huge figures of the aliens to tramp past. "In here -- " I opened the study door. Inside, Streng still sat in his chair, his arm around Tom who was smiling into his face. Chandi was moving toward us, carrying his equipment. "Alini -- Tubon," he observed with grave pleasure. "It's good of you to come for me. Obviously you have met Mr. Warren. This is Dr. Streng, my host. Ralph, meet my compatriots." Streng stood automatically and, staring, shook hands stiffly. I looked in bewilderment from the gross, dynamic figures of the two newcomers to the slender, slow Chandi. They might have been different species. "I don't understand," mumbled Streng, embarrassed at the loss of his habitual composure. "You're surely not from Canaral?" His deep eyes widened. Perhaps, in that moment, he understood. I don't know. "The difference in appearance puzzles you?" asked Chendi lightly. "We are an old race, Ralph; cells of an ancient and great organism. Cells grow old and are replaced. I told you we have no population problem and no need for euthanasia. I am old and will shortly be replaced. I shall die before I reach Canaral and on our planet another cell will come into existence. Don't let it bother you. It doesn't bother me; I am able only to think in terms of the race as a whole -- and my last days have been very well spent." At last Streng broke down completely; face contorted in great agony and glistening with tears, he clutched at Chandi's arm. "Surely there's something I can do. I'm a doctor, surely I can help you in some way?" "What would it profit you, Ralph?" "No!" Streng's voice was a cry of despair. "I don't want anything! After all you've done for me, for God's sake tell me how I can help you!" Gently Chandi disengaged himself and turned for the door. "God is an excuse for lesser men than yourself, Ralph," he said quietly. "You discovered twelve years ago that there is no God. But remember that there is still humanity." He departed, followed by his companions, leaving the three of us to the long silence of the autumn evening.   r ( Hi boots collected stardust, but his eyes saw what was real! T he carbon-lead door of the entrance shaft broke its seal to allow the entrance of a giant, headless sloth. Beyond lay the great dome of the upper edges of the Retainer and the animal stopped to half-size as it entered, dragging the last remnants of its plastic stirrups. It moved slowly, awkwardly acroFss the smoothness of the great machine's too-warm base plate; muffled, stumbling hoofs yearning for the firm support of familiar sand and rock. The lumbering animal had made this pilgrimage before, both on summons and voluntarily as now. Still, the reverent silence of the chamber and the knowledge that the machine had created its kind from the sands inspired awesbmeness in the sloth's being. The Retainer flowed silently above the humbling sloth, in lights and liquids that worked and churned. Within itself and its multiple duplicates dotting the hardened surface of this planet were contained the last members of a time-deadened civilization. Each thing that had lived above before the comet sucked life away in near collision. Each member of the dominant race, each complimenting specie and plant, each event in history as finally remembered, were here recorded and held in limbo... protected for the day when natural elements and time would regenerate lifesupporting surface conditions. But until that day came again The Retainers with their lower attendant life-forms would protect the world against disaster: cosmic, natural or extraphysical. The sloth arrived at its designated place and waited. Eventually, a communication bar lowered. The animal reached upward to it and began attaching each leg into the four circular pluglike cups. This completed, the sloth hung as one with the machine. "Your purpose in entering Sanctuary?" "My sums have indicated that the Outmapper McKay is near death," answered the animal. "You petition for an alien?" "Yes. He has lived long among us and honored the laws of Sanctuary." "An invader has no place among us." "Dare we assume to allow this event of time to pass without retaining something of it for our peers?" The sloth felt intense tension as his unexplainable devotion forced him to push the Retainer. The bar was silent as the Retainer did not answer... nor was the sloth released. The machine had reached an impasse with its programing and had turned its functions inward to a higher authority. The decision, when it came, would be a Martian one. R aymond harper pushed the palms of his hands down IF against the mattress and tried to ease the weight on his hips. Carefully he twisted his left leg a fraction in each direction. Nothing. A little more this time. A white flash of pain blanked out his vision as his breath wooshed out. Harper sank back into the hospital bed and made a solemn vow not to try that again. The throbbing slowly subsided. Harper resigned himself to the fact that he wasn't one of those superhealers he'd heard about. The broken leg swung gently from side to side under the traction cords and looked for all the worlds like a rejected stone carving lynched in disgust. Harper had just passed his first night in Speer's General Hospital. He felt badly out of place and wished he were home watering the lawn or fixing the Jiffy Mealer or something. But here he lay, lassoed by a busted leg he'd earned from momentary stupidity. It had been one of those mental slips of an instant when the rest of him had known better. He had fallen from the #nd of an ore pipe while trying to kick a derrick-maneuvered joining section into place. Why men occasionally considered themselves more formidable than several tons of inert metal was a mystery to Harper. Damn foolish. The sounds of steady , ciccclacking heels told Harper that the day nurse was about to descend on him. A whiteness with a face swung into the semiprivate room, smiling that frozen smile of professional synthetic understanding and carrying a tray full of healing delights. "Good morning and how are we today?" And before Harper could answer, "Oh, really? Well, that's nice. Here. Let's take your temperature." Harper managed to open his mouth in time to avoid having his lips impaled. Fighting back the inclination to go crosseyed. Harper glared beyond the glass rod obstructing his vision and was met look for look. "Bowels move yesterday?" What the hell, lady. But he nodded affirmatively and ignored images of what might happen if he told the truth. "That's nice," the nurse repeated out of reflex as she took his pulse. Satisfied, she dropped his wrist and moved to the end of the bed where she noted the results on a clipboard. The writing took overly long and Harper suspected she was counting his respiration rate and held his breath. "Allright," she said cheerfully and dropped the clipboard back into place a little too quickly. Harper eased out a sigh. She took out the thermometer slowly while peering down at Harper with that certain distaste women have for unclothed and unfamiliar men. He secretly hoped the glass had grown hair. "Well, well. Aren't we the healthy one?" "That's right. I'm fine. In here for a broken leg. Never felt better. Can't use a thing except a decent meal." It was rapidfire but he got it all in. "You needn't worry, Mr. Harper. Breakfast is on its way. You'll find plenty of everything. Now try to roll over -- it's time for bottom's up." The nurse squirted a stream onto the floor from a hypodermic needle gleaned from the tray. "What do you suggest I do with that?" asked Harper pointing to the suspended leg. "Just lean over as far as you can. And loosen these a bit," she said tugging at his smock. Harper freed the drawstring bow. "There we are. Now please relax. It won't hurt if you relax." She gave the shot in a jolting, stabbing manner. Luckily Harper had clenched his teeth or he might have bit off the end of his tongue. He could see the nurse's eyes glisten in delight as an age-old revenge was sweetly taken. "Now that didn't hurt, did it?" she asked as the cotton swab rubbed away a drop of blood. "No. That didn't hurt at all," said Harper in calmly measured tones. Her smile remained, plastered on cast-iron features, but he could see her eyes saying, # bet. The nurse unloaded several small paper cups containing multicolored pills for Harper to swallow. She then inspected the traction supports to ascertain that they were not blistering the skin. "Simple fracture like this, why, you should be out of here by tomorrow fit as new." Harper met the smile head-on and attempted to attain the proper degree of mechanical poise. "The doctors will be along in a little while to give some more calcium-silicon treatments. Now, if you'll lift yourself up a bit, Mr. Harper -- " "For what?" asked Harper defensively, "For this," said the nurse in a flurry of motion. The cold bedpan had moved from the cabinet to under him as if by magic. Harper gritted his teeth at the contact. The smile again. "That's what you get for lying to me. Be good, now, or you'll get more." With that threat she picked up her tray and was gone, click-clacking Aovn the hall. T he other bed in the room was empty but Harper had little time to be lonely. Crowded and overexposed would have been more accurate terms of description. Breakfast arrived and seemed closely followed by dinner. In between he was inundated by several waves of nurses and aides. Harper was washed, relieved, turned a little, combed, rubbed, pilled and needled again. There was an interview by a IF records clerk who extracted his life's medical history and those of three previous generations. After that the mop-and-clean-sheet brigade arrived. An insurance agent for the company put in an appearance just to make sure he really existed and interrupted a nice elderly lady trying to sell him magazines. All in all, Harper formed a new opinion as to the cause of relapses. He was visited twice by a team of doctors that administered the calcium-silicon injections. The treatment fascinated Harper. They used a portable X-Ray device that reproduced continuous images on a remote viewing screen. The plates were attached to a yoke-shaped device that was easily mobile through # degrees and allowed a complete view of the fracture. The cementing action of the last injections could be instantly analyzed and this made possible an accurate diagnosis of where the next shots were to be placed. A simple fracture required only twenty-four to thirty-eight hours to repair. Associated tissue that had been bruised or torn required a little longer to heal but still a patient wasn't down more than a week. As the afternoon slowly lengthened. Harper began to think he was going to enjoy a few moments of peace and quiet. A sudden commotion in the hallway that increased in decibels proved him wrong. An urgent entourage rolled in a patient on an emergency stretcher cart. Harper could see that his roommate was in far more serious trouble than he. The staff attending the elderly patient moved quickly and smoothly. Conversation was kept to abbreviated phrases as each seemed to sense what the other was doing. This was one of the crack teams from Receiving and none of the usually prevailing hospital mystique clung to them. They ignored the draw curtains between the beds and Harper watched, entranced. The cart was rolled parallel to the bed and two aides lifted and slid the patient onto the bed in a sweeping flowing motion. A resident doctor and intern assisted from the other side. The aides were pushing the cart from the room as the duty nurse arrived, smile in place. And for the first time Harper could remember, the smile disappeared when she saw the cream-colored knee boots on the patient. Harper had noticed the boots but thought the patient was still in street clothes. He could see now that the man was not. The nurse started to remove them. The patient, who seemed in shock and a bit out of it, came groggily aware. "What are you doing, woman? The man's right leg swung up at the nurse and the momentum almost carried him out of bed. The intern caught the man and lifted him back onto the mattress. Turning to the nurse, the doctor said furiously, 'Tor God's sake, let those alone." She recoiled and blinked, "But the sheets -- " "To hell with the sheets." He returned his attention to the patient. "Listen, McKay. Now hear me! You've had a massive stroke. Your left side is paralyzed from your neck on down. You have at least one'-major obstruction in your brain, maybe more. I've given you shots to attempt to dissolve it -- but youe goi to lie still. Any more of that jumping around and we'll be burying you. You listening?" "Yeh, I hear you," said the patient whose tone indicated he was highly disturbed by the inconvenience of it all. "But you better tell them girlies to leave my boots alone. None of you ground-hoppers are gonna be able to take them off -- not unless I'm dead -- and I ain't dead by a long shot. Got to get off this planet and get home, got to -- " The doctor administered a sedative while McKay talked and he and the intern waited until its affect sent the man into a deep sleep. As they started to leave the doctor paused and turned to Harper. "Hi. Sorry for the commotion." "It's all right." "I'd like you to do me a favor. Keep an eye on him for us and if he becomes active or anything, push your emergency light -- okay? We may have to strap him down." "Sure, be glad to," said Harper. "What caused the stroke?" The doctor shrugged to indicate multiple possibilities, "Probably the results of a drastic change in environment. He's a little too elderly to be taking the physical punishment of a space trip and planetary changes." "He's a spacer?" asker Harper. "That's my understanding. His idenity tags say he's a Martian Outmapper. He had a return ticket on him that was sold last month on Mars. An unusual man. But then Outmappers are known for that. I have to rush, so thanks again. It will be a couple of hours before he comes around. So long," said the doctor with a wave of his hand. "'Bye," said Harper and the room was left to its paying occupants. H arper regarded his new roommate with increased curiosity and a certain awe that's inherent in any spectator. McKay was old but strangely aged, as though sections of his body lived at different paces. His torso and legs were huge and seemed muscular, yet his arms were scrawny sticks. IF His face was typical of the spacers Harper had seen in passing. It was heavily wrinkled and darkly burned, yet possessing a curiously whitish cast, almost as if the skin were in a constantly accelerated reproduction process. Bulging purplish veins traced eerie lines on the sunken features and pulsed to a steady heartbeat. The only other motion was the rising and falling of an overly distended chest. The oddly shaped boots protruded from under the blankets and appeared bizarre in the extreme. Their design indicated a rare originality. No stitching or glued se.ams were visible. The overall effect, was almost as if they had been poured to form. Harper wondered about it for a while, until the boredom of the long afternoon sent his thoughts elsewhere. Activity picked up right after supper as the second-shift nurse arrived to give Harper his antibiotic shot and pain pills. She went about her business with much the same personal de,tachment as her predecessor. Harper preferred her, though, since she didn't smile at all. Another calciumsilicon treatment was given and the X-rays showed that no more would be required. Harper sighed his relief as darkness came, knowing that the morning would bring his release. He had just reached over his head to wave on the telescoping bedlamp when he noticed that McKay was awake and watching him. "Hello," Harper offered. "How are you feeling?" "Like hell," came the thickly couched reply. "They got any water in this pest hole?" "Coming up," answered Harper and activated the nurse's station alarm. An aide appeared and attended to McKay's needs which proved to be several. Harper passed the time reading some of the bedside literature donated by various organizations. McKay was extremely #eak but managed to drink most of a specially prepared milkshake. The aide tied an emergency light to the guardrail near McKay's right hand and departed after passing chosen words of encouragement. McKay's usable hand fumbled along the bedside until he found the controls that raised the head section. His eyes seemed to strain until he caught sight of the boots sticking out from under the blankets. He waved the right toe back and forth for a moment and then asked, "They try to take them off me?" "Um-hmm." Harper nodded. "But you gave them a bad time." "Yeh -- it figures. Them boots ain't been off in over forty years. Never will either. Bet they don't come off when they haul my carcass away. Them boots are a part of me by now -- a part of me." Harper srpiled but he was certain that he had heard only about half of that, "You say you've been wearing them for forty years? They look like new." The right toe waved back and forth again. "Sure they look new. Hand-made from gimpo hide. Won't wear out -- cant wear out. They take life back from whatever wears them. Replace themselves like skin." "I never heard of anything like that," said Harper incredulously. "No matter," said McKay softly. "There's lots of things people ain't never heard of and probably never will, for that matter. Damn bunch of ground-huggers content to live out their lives in prenatal conditions and scared-to death of expanding their minds." Harper must have reacted painfully and McKay seemed to realize why. He immediately added: "Don't take that personal, fellow. I don't mean it personal." 'The name's Raymond Harper." "Merlanger McKay's mine," "Glad to know you. One of the doctors who admitted you said he thought you were an Outmapper on Mars -- that true?" asked Harper, making conversation. "I am an Outmapper. Just came back to Earth long enough to see some relatives but they've all passed on. Guess I was out there longer than I thought. Damn air down here's got me all messed up. I'll be fine when I get back home. I can live there -- shouldn't have left -- friends who understand things. This world's harder than I remember -- cold and empty -- no friends, none who could be -- " H arper gave a courteous nod occasionally as McKay rambled, falling into reminiscence. Eventually a pause lengthened into silence and Harper thought the Outmapper had drifted off into sleep. But the other continued abruptly. "What about you? How'd you get slung up like that?" "Stupidity, mainly. I work for Universal Ores as a construction engineer. Fell off an ore line yesterday afternoon and broke my leg." "Too bad," said McKay, genuinely sorry. "Your company has mining projects on Mars, too. You ever been up?" "No. Had the chance but turned it down. The pay was good but I didn't yant to leave while my folks were still alive. Maybe that's a way of saying I didn't have the nerve -- I don't know. Most of the men I've met returning from a tour say it's pretty harsh duty and very lonely. I'm pretty much a crowd-follower." "I guess that's about right -- the part about its being bad duty. It wouldn't be worth much if you had to stay put on some construction IF project, watching camp video reruns. But with a breather, a couple of pairs of outtogs and a gimpo -- well, it's tremendous. You know what a gimpo is, don't you?" Harper shrugged and grinned in a half ignorant way. "I've seen pictures of them. They're the major life form on Mars, aren't they -- called the Martian Camel?" "The major animal form, yes, but there are others. The camel bit sounds like some fool in an office needing word to say. A gimpo is sort of one thing, you know? It has a body and four legs but it's all the same thing. No bones or joints or things like that. It's just as if the body runs down in four places to make the legs. There's no neck or head. It was a real shock for me when I saw my first one." "You mean there's no head at all?" "Nope. Doesn't need one. About the only head-type feature it needs and has is an eye-like vision hole up between what we call the front pair of legs. Ears, nose and a mouth full of teeth would be a waste of space. They absorb what they need through their hides like we expel from ours. And don't think that didn't give us trouble at first. We tried to ride them and they were peaceful enough but they'd eat the pants right off you in no time. Finally found an oilbased plastic that stayed flexible in the temperature changes that we used for a halter to yoke the front legs. Good halter would only last a couple of months at best." "Fascinating," said Harper. "Yeh, I guess it sounds that way now. It wasn't so much then. It was a simple case of life and death. Either you had a gimpo to find water for you out on those ranges or you didn't make it. More like a burro than a camel. I guess we Outmappers were a lot like tiose old gold prospectors of years ago. More than one man owes his life to that animal -- in several ways." Harper decided that the talking was relaxing McKay and keeping his mind off his predicament. The long sedative-induced sleep seemed to have rested the man completely and he was keeping still, so Harper continued to encourage the conversation. "How's that?" "Well, like the time I first discovered a Martian Sanctuary. I'd have walked right into it if that gimpo of mine hadn't gone belly down in the sand. I pulled and kicked but he wouldn't budge. About then..." McKay spun his story freely and Harper could feel himself being drawn into the web. The hospital room took on a glimmer of fog as both men's minds narrowed to the time line, as the one identified with the other and both retraced lost images, the one leading, the other following. There is no purpose to abuse of the beast The image had spoken behind McKays back and he spun toward it with one foot still cocked in an undelivered kick. The draped figure of a man confronted McKay from behind a barrier of heat waves. The Martian plateau in coming twilight reflected dimly through the figure and McKay sensed it to be a projection. Still, his only instinct was to flee. The Outmapper clamped down on his fear and stood his ground. There was no place to run without meeh ing certain death. If it were to come -- here was the place to stand or fall. Your person is in np immediate danger the image spoke again in the oddly resonating atmosphere. The thing didnt appear to McKay to move and the sound was almost non-directional. The features were strangely arranged and the clothing unusual, yet there was too much familiarity about it. McKay was certain the thing was for his identification only. What do you want? he asked, unusually calm, considering. It is a strange question. This is our home and you are the one who wants something. Still, invader, we wish you no harm. That is why we appear here.  The sound stopped but the message was incomplete. McKay decided to remain silent and wait. The image raised a wavering arm and indicated in a sweep the land behind it. All this is sacred ground for our kind. You must consider it forbidden sanctuary. To enter without our consent will result in death.  McKay considered the words as he looked behind the image at the alien landscape. The land appears no different. I see no indications of boundaries. How am I to know? The beast you use will not cross, nor any after its kind.  That doesnt help me, said McKay slowly. '# could wander around on my own or get lost maybe The image passed an arm behind its back and reappeared holding a pair of boots. It bent forward and set them down outside the wall of shimmering waves. The coverings are of the beast and live long after the animal itself has died. Wear them and they will become a part of you, forbidden to enter sanctuary. You will also be able to ride the beast unharmed.  The tension of alien contact began to wear on McKay. He could feel his limbs tremble and weaken, his thoughts stuttered. "I dont know -- I dont know... The other choice, continued the image, is to leave this place and never return. For the shape of it is irregular and to return would mean death. In time it may be that some among you will be inIF vited to enter and be at peace with the elements. But that shall be our decision and those selected of our choice. Beware. The image faded and suddenly the lines were gone. The gimpo stood and waited, its fur-covered skin quivering in the desert twilight. McKay slumped down onto the sand and stared at the boots and tried to evaluate the degree of his sanity. H arper could feel his mind blink. "So you decided to put them on?" "Yeh, after a while I did. And it was like he said. For years afterward I would walk into places where I couldn't go any further. It ' took a long time before I got the area all mapped out -- shows on the maps as simply being unexplored." "Some sort of alien design?" "Don't know. Just looks like an ink splash on a piece of paper. Probably has a reason, I guess." "Were you the only one to meet a Martian?" asked Harper. "Naw, most of us did, sooner or later. There are other sanctuaries. I was the only one that got a free pair of boots, though. The others had to make their own -- not that they believed the sanctuary story so much at first -- just that they preferred riding to walking." "Seems strange that you'd prefer to walk or ride rather than use the automatic transportation." "Eh -- Raymond, isn't it? Well, I'll tell you, Raymond, it's like this. You have to be a loner and down on things in general to want to be an Outmapper. You don't want to take much with you that reminds you too much of civilization. Especially some damn machine that's going to break down on you when you're dependent on it. Oh, sure, some tried that approach but almost all of thm died up there. I found a wreck one time right up at a sanctuary line. It's no place for a kid and a machine out on a joyride. You got to go it alone on guts and try to get as close to old nature as you can, so you'll have sharp and reliable instincts. And even at that, most Outmappers paid the price in those deserts." "I suppose Mars is fairly well mapped out by now?" "Yeh, fairly well. There's still a couple of areas for an old hand like me. If I can ever get out of this place to get home." It was past eleven and the night shift had come on. The nurse's first round of calls broke up the conversation. "My, my, aren't we the late ones in here? Come on now, let's be turning in. Mr. Harper? That's you? Yes, I have a shot for you." She reached up and pulled the curtain shut. After tending to McKay the nurse left, waving off the lights. Harper lay awake in the darkness for a long time listening to the Outmapper's regular breathing and thinking about the harmless babblings of the senile old man. Funny how it always happened to the aged. Talk and talk and talk. They'd tell stories for days on end about times long past and none of them would be true -- only half being even probable. It seemed to be nature's way of relieving inner frustrations that younger people expelled in more vigorous ways. Harper's cramping leg finally gave up and went numb. It gave him a chance to drift off into a restless and dream-filled sleep. touched Harper while he slept and he jerked awake, all senses alive and functioning. He held his breath and listened for any sound. There was none. Something had happened to awaken him, he was certain. He reached out to the curtains between the beds and drew them back. McKay's body lay half off the bed, an arm and one foot dangling lifelessly. Harper grabbed the emergency button but knew in the starlight of the bay windows that the Outmapper was dead. A blankness closed in about him and he only faintly remembered strong hands breaking his grip on the emergency cord. The needle's thrust went almost unnoticed and his body fought back the effects of the sedative. He had thoughts to think and nothing could interfere. Every breath Harper gulped trying to understand the Outmapper's death had a bit of the same mystery in it. They had shared air. They had shared life. McKay's last words played over and over. His image turned and turned. Happens feelings were his own, locked up in a frozen exterior from which they couldn't be broken loose and shared with anyone. He kept thinking over and over again. Damn, damn, damn, I don't understand... why does life have to die... why? Finally, in a stupor. Harper collapsed on his bed, having changed nothing. T he rattling of trays being unloaded from the breakfast cart in the hallway helped Harper shake off the effects of the sedative and stir awake. He slipped his leg from the traction harness and awkwardly positioned the numb limb on the bed. Soon the shooting pains of returning circulation caused him to roll about in anguish. He was gripping the sides of the mattress when a faintly luminous mark on the floor caught his eye. Then he saw another. Harper eased himself from the bed and applied slight pressure to the injured leg. Satisfied that it would hold his weight, he stepped to the foot of the bed. A path of faint blobs lead from McKay's bed into the hallway. It looked as IF though someone had dribbled a ball laden with powder. Harper limped after them. He ignored the stares of the aides delivering breakfast and tried to follow the prints. They were almost rubbed out. Twice he lost them and picked them up again. They led him through a pair of massive doors out onto a sundeck. Here the prints showed clearly again. They led straight to the rim and ended. Harper stood staring dizzily at the twelve-story drop to the parking lot below. "Mr, Harper!" It was the smiling nurse. She came bustling out to the sundeck, pushing a wheelchair and was obviously irritated. "You know you shouldn't be up on that leg without the doctor's permission. What are you doing out here anyway? It's time for breakfast. Now sit down and I'll wheel you in -- come on now -- " Something inside Harper's mind shut her out and a hush prevailed during the trip back to his room. He remained in bed until the breakfast tray was delivered. Then he arose again and made his way to the personal lockers behind the doorway. Digging into his trousers he found his pocketknife. Harper liberated a napkin from the tray and kneeled near the clearest print and began scraping it away from the tiles. He scraped up three more before he was satisfied he had procured a reasonable sampling of the stuff. Folding the napkin carefully. Harper returned to his locker and shoved it into a pocket. Then he limped back to bed and breakfast! The usual rigamarole of check, and double check, sign and cosign, pay, insurance and release occupied most of the day for Harper. An hour still remained in Ufiiversal Ore's workday when he walked from the hospital, flagged down a 'copter and gave directions to the Company's complex. He arrived at the Metallurgy Lab with a half hour to spare. "Well, hello there, Gimpy," said John Collins wiping his hands on a chemically stained smock. "They fixed you up awfully fast." The two men shook hands. "It doesn't take long any more," agreed Harper. "Look, John, I need a small favor under the table. Can you help me out?" "Sure, if it's within reason." Harper withdrew the napkin and unfolded it on a counter top. "This is a sampling of something I found on the floor in the hospital and I'd like to know what it is. I don't think it's one of the medicinal type compounds. It luminous this morning but that seems to have left. It was almost powder before I scraped it up." Collins looked at the meager scrapings and let out a low whistle, "Boy, there's not much there, Raymond. One little wrong turn and I'll blow the whole sampling. Maybe a spec test can get me going down the right road -- I don't know -- there just isn't anything there to work with." "It's important to me, John, or I wouldn't have asked." "Sure... sure. OK, I'll tell you what. Let me have a try at it and I'll let you know if I come up with anything. Might be the challenge will do me some good." The chemist folded the sampling and placed it in a safe and locked it. "Right now it's closing time. Kid's birthday and I can't be late." The men said goodbye and parted. The chemist videoed the line shack and the guard sent a runner down the line to fetch Harper. Collins was smiling broadly on the plate. "I got that analysis you were asking about, Raymond. Drop around when you can find time." Harper beamed back. "Good work, John. I'll be there in an hour." John was waiting for him. "Right here you are," Collins said and shoved a paper across the counter toward Harper. "I figured you didn't want the floor wax analyzed so I've omitted that." Harper stared at the page of element signs, formulas and ratios before shaking his head. "John, I can't make anything out of this." "It's a perfect sample," said Collins, strutting just a bit as he walked around the table and took back the paper. "Here, look. We broke it down into two groupings. This column is the silicate rock group and this one is the iron group. The groups are at a four-tothree ratio. The rock breaks into percentages of magnesium and various silicate compounds. The iron group is broken down the same way. Here: eighty-nine percent iron, ten percent nickel and about one percent total of elements like titanium, chromium, manganese, cobalt, copper and zinc. See?" "See what? Does any of this make sense?" asked Harper. "Sure it does. It's a perfect sampling," Collins repeated. "Ok, I give. It's a perfect sampling of what?" "Matter. Just plain matter as we know it. Distributed in a random form of course." Suddenly thoughts and images veiled behind a reluctant subconscious burst forth onto Harper. He saw a dangling leg, a foot, bare without a boot. The circular indistinct print of a hoofless animal seen in a museum. He felt the muscles set in his face as he heard again the words of choice in sanctuary. He .asked the last question, "Matter?" "Yeah, man, you know... Star Dust."  IF The Geoffrey Effect -- or never the trains shall meet! E d awoke to the warmth of Julia's arms. The softness of her hair tickled his nose. His unconscious mind had heard the soft hum from his alarm buzzer -- it was rapidly growing louder. If he did not reach out to stop it he knew from long habit that its electronic circuitry would resort to other sonic tricks. It did. But Ed, the barely stirring Julia still in his arms, did not move, as the timepiece began to emit chirps that might have come from a cricket in one of, the few natural swamps not yet paved over. The chirps sharpened, turned to whistling sounds and became more clearly electronic. Finally the alarm changed to its ultimate persuader -- an excellent imitation of the mechanical bells in the old-fashioned clocks used in the first half of the century, Ed Fontaine shifted Julia toward his left as gently as he could and reached with his right hand to silence the ringing nuisance. Julia moaned, yawned. "Not already?" "Time for breakfast." She opened large blue eyes to him, closed them again, with a stab of annoyance. "Let's sleep -- " "Can't. They expect me at work." "You built the Jeffrey Helix -- " "Geoffroy," he corrected her. "You built it," she said, ignoring his interruption. "You're the only one who understands it. They can't fire you." It was true, he thought with a half-smile. He had built it -- a system that would allow several subway trains to cross a stretch of rail at the same time without colliding. "That's just it," he said. "I'm responsible for it. And I've got a visitor this morning. Someone who wants to know how I did it." "'Can't he wait?" she asked sleepily, putting warm, arms about his midriff. "Wouldn't look good. The man just might be my next employer."' That was all it took to shake the sleep from her. This time her eyes opened wide and remained wide, like  vast expanse of sky. "Who? Where is he from? What do you mean -- " "IKro -- is a Mr. Carruthers. Where  -- is from the New York Transit Authority. And I mean that I just might work for him. Or his boss." "Come on," she said, pulling at his arm gently, "you wouldn't leave Montreal -- " "Not that I want to. But the Geoffroy Helix has been operating perfectly on the Montreal Metro for four years. I've become, at the ripe old age of twenty-nine, an electronic baby-sitter." She still looked hurt. "Carruthers is coming from New York because they want one too. They've been talking about a massive expansion of their sub way system since traffic came to a complete standstill almost fifteen years ago. But they can't do it the way we've done it -- unless they build a Geoffroy Helix." "Why do they need you for that?" "You're the one who just told me I was indispensable." His logic glanced off her. "Who wants to live somewhere where the traffic doesn't move?" "I," he said, kissing her nose, "can change that." O ER waffles and coffee -- prepared automatically by a microwave oven -- she took up the subject again. "Are you taking me with you if you go to New York?" "I thought you didn't want to go," he said between bites of the slightly spongy synthetic waffle. Development of the soft flour by a large plastics firm ten years earlier had been the final death-blow to the rural economy of both the Canadian west and the American midwest. Food made from the soft Hour was more nutritious than the real thing, though -- like this waffle -- it was oilten boringly consistent in texture. "New York," she said, "is a nice place to visit -- " The rest was inaudible through the ersatz waffle. "But why don't yoii want to live there?" he asked with a smile. IF She finished the waffle, and grew more serious. "Perhaps I would -- if it's what you really want. I know you're bored with the same old Helix every day. But I think you should go only for a lit tie while. And then come back to Montreal." "Sure. After aH, the New York Helix will some day be four years gld, too." "It'll take me some time to get used to it." "Look," said Ed, "I haven't seen this fellow Carruthers yet. I'll show him the Helix. We'll see if he likes it -- and if he thinks New York might want the man who built it." She looked unconvinced. "Tell you what," he said. "We'll talk about it tonight, after I've seen Carruthers. I'll take you to that little seafood place we like in Old Montreal. Come down to my office at six and we'll paint the town." "Paint it?" She looked sad. "Say goodbye to it you mean." D on carruthers had been with the New York Transit Authority as an electronic engineer for longer than ten years. He was in his early forties and he did not conceal his sur prise that his Montreal counterpart was more than a decade younger. "Inventors come young in Canada," he said in the tone of a man to whom a smile comes easily.  "Inventor," said Ed Fontaine, "is perhaps the wrong word. A development engineer is really all I am." Carruthers raised a bushy eyebrow. "But no one else knows bow to build a Geoffroy Helix." "No. That is, Leopold Geoffroy did. But as you probably know he died about three years ago. "Did he tell you how to build this one?" Ed explained. "In a way. I wrote my college thesis on the" Geoffroy effect. In that thesis I suggested that the effect could be used to let two or more subway trains cross at the same level. When Igraduated I sent a copy of the thesis, with the application underlined in red, to the Montreal Transportation Commission. They bit and asked me to do a technical study on the effect." "Leopold Geoffroy himself helped you, I understand." from France. And it was really he who worked out the mathematics behind the hardware I merely designed." "That hardware," said Carruthers, "is what I came to find out about." "You've read technical papers, on the Geoffroy effect?" ask Ed. "I have. And frankly it didn't make a damned bit of sense." 'I Ed Fontaine and Don Carruthers stood before the huge control panel. It glowed with indicator lamps. Carruthers looked to the right, at three rows of shiny blue equipment racks. "Run by a computer, I see." "Two computers," said Ed. "The Helix is pretty complicated, and we don't want a circuit failure to foul things up. The computers are paralleled through an other." "Nice." Carruthers turned his attention to the imposing panel before him. "This, I take it," he said, waving at the blinking lights, "tells you where the subway trains are." "Only the ones in the vicinity of the Helix," said Ed. "When a train takes a tunnel leading to the Helix, sensors pick up its presence, the computers make sure the route is clear for it and operate the circuitry to takeit into the Helix and out the other side. Here, for instance -- " he pointed to a trio of lights on the panel -- "we have a train approaching the Helix southbound on line six. These two trains -- " he pointed again -- "are within the Heli. They're doing the seemingly impossible. They're crossing the same space without being aware of each other. Now iht second train is out of the Helix and the first train has entered." "Impressive. But does it really get traffic around faster?" "It does. All but three of our eleven lines cross at the Helix." Ed turned to a map. "The Helix is here. And Berri-de-Montigny station is here, just next to it. From' that station you can depart in any of sixteen different directions. You can get almost anywhere in town by Metro, taking no more than two trains." Ed paused to let the significance sink in. "If you built an eight-line interchange, putting one line above the other, some passengers might have to climb up or down as far as twenty stories to change trains. It would take them all day." "You could rig traffic lights -- to let the trains through an ordinary interchange one at a time." "And an Irish cop with a whistle," suggested Ed. Don Carruthers laughed with ebullient humor. B y mid-afternoon the two men were in shirtsleeves and Don Carruthers was laboring with a branch of mathematics he had scarcely touched since university days. He was still well up on basic calculus, as he had to be. But this was calculus of a different order and his brain wearied ! rapidly before the pages of equations. "Thirty-two simultaneous equai IF tions, all with five-fold iterated integrals," said Carruthers. "You solved these in your head, of course." ple," said Ed. "We used a computer' naturally. We went down generation computer they'd just built. First we stopped off in New York and got a smaller computer to work out the program for the big one." "I believe it. But equations, even thirty-two of them, don't make a theory." "They did for Leopold Geoffroy." "And for you, by the look of it. You really earned your degree with that thesis." "Oh, I didn't solve the whole thing in my thesis. I extended the theory enough to suggest applications. It was only when the began." "If I understand all this correctly," said Carruthers at length, "the subway trains don't really go through each other, as everyone thinks." "Right. They go around each other. But they don't do it in the usual way -- over-and-under, say. They do it in another dimension." "Time?" "I don't know. And I don't think Leopold Geoffroy knew. Geoffrey's point was that we didn't need to wait until we understood dimension in order to deal with it mathematically. Mathematics can deal with a hundred -- a thousand -- dimensions all at once. The math just gets complicated. And Geoffroy theorized that if you can deal with a problem mathematically you can use that mathematics to give you a physical solution. Geoffroy did the math. He and I together did the physics. Come, I'll show you the first machine built to test the Geoffroy effect." T he machine was much smaller than Carruthers had expected. It occupied no more than two equipment racks. Its small control panel held only a power switch and two buttons, marked respectively operate and release. On the floor was a small metal chute with a half-inch wide groove down its length. The chute, on its way to the floor, passed through a black metal tunnel, connected to the racks by a large cable. "It looks like a toy I used to roll marbles down when I was a kid," said Carruthers. "That's what it is," said Ed Fontaine. "Watch." He flipped the power switch to on, and a faint hum filled the room. He took a marble from a drawer, brought it to the top of the chute and released it. It slid down through the black tunnel and to the floor. "How many points?" asked Carruthers. "The points come for the next trick -- Geoffrey's trick," said Ed. He slid a black plate through a slit in the tunnel, so that it blocked the chute. Then once again, he released the marble from the top of the chute. It rolled down and into the tunnel, striking the metal plate audibly. "It's stuck," said Carruthers. "Not for long." Ed pressed the operate button, paused momentarily, and then pressed the release button. The marble continued its journey down the chute, as though the plate were not there. Carruthers' jaw fell. Ed Fontaine could hoi repress his smile. He scooped up the marble and repeated the operation. This time the marble did not even pause on its way through the tunnel. "It went right through a metal plate," said Carruthers, awed by the concrete demonstration of what had been only equations. "Not through. Around." "In a fourth dimension -- " "A fourth and a fifth," said Ed. "To get the Helix effect, you need two extra dimensions. Suppose a straight line represents the three dimensions that we know. That metal plate would be just a dot, blocking that line. What the marble did was leave the straight line entirely and spiral around it." "Like a helix?" "Its path is helix-shaped -- hence the name. It's a bit like modulating an AM transmitter, except that you're modulating in two parameters at once." "And," said Carruthers, still awed, "you're modulating a solid object instead of a carrier." When the two men returned to Ed Fontaine's office, a phone call was waiting for Ed. It was Julia. "Are you on your way to New York yet?" she asked, with a hint of moroseness. "I've just shown our guest the Geoffroy effect," he told her, by way of an answer. "Keeping our date?" "Absolutely. Six o'clock. We'll do the, sights." Julia wanted to know what dress to wear. "Wear the long gold one I like," he told her. "We might go dancing after dinner." "Wife?" asked Carruthers, after Ed had hung up. "Fiancee," said Ed. "I'm trying to console her." He hesitated. "She's upset because she knows you're looking at the Helix and she thinks you might -- ah -- be looking at me, too."  Carruthers nodded. "No doubt about it. You did your thesis on this thing and I'm too rusty on the math. Besides, you've already built one. We'd want you for a while at least." There were other details to discuss and here Carruthers was on IF his owh territory. What did building a Helix involve from the engineering standpoint, he wanted to know. How big was it? What was it made of? Carruthers blanched when Ed told him how much copper was inside the Helix. "Do you know how much copper costs these days? Can't we economize? Say, by using gold?" "Silver should work pretty well." "Glad you're being reasonable," said Carruthers. "What the hell! The Transit Authority plans to blow so much on new subway lines that we could line the Helix with platinum and they wouldn't notice." By the time the two men put down their papers the summer sun was showing the reddishness of afternoon's end. Ed Fontaine instantly thought again of Julia, slim and beautiful, with eyes bluer than the eastern sky outside his window. She was coming soon. "Tomorrow," he said, "I'll show you the Helix itself." "I don't suppose you can walk into it?" asked Carruthers, his interest still alight after the long day. "No. You can just see trains go in and out. But that's worth the fare by itself." "One thing I don't imderstand," said Carruthers. "Geoffroy was French. Why didn't the Paris subway system get its owa Helix?" "Good question. BM remember that Paris, unlike Montreal, already had Metro lines just about everywhere. Besides, Geoffroy wasn't taken seriously in his own country. He was a biochemist, not a physicist. And he had retired by the time he wrote his paper on the Geoffroy effect in nineteenseventy-seven. A lot of people thought he was dotty." "So you discovered him, really?" "I discovered a use for his theory. There are probably others." "There's too damn much specialization nowadays," said Carruthers. "Let a man step a little way out of his narrow field and people -- " Bells... The clanging of emergency bells cut through the corridors and the offices like a wrecker's hammer. Ed Fontaine knew that they were not real bells, but computers reproducing what they had been told bells should sound like. But in the imitation, they had made the bell-sound even more strident and shrill than the original. And these ersatz bells meant what bells had meant for centuries. Trouble. Ed leaped up and ran out of his office in the direction of the Helix, several hundred feet away. Don Carruthers, the bells awakening the same instinct within him, followed only slightly more slowly. T hree technicians were already in the Helix room. The huge red emergency light was glowing brightly. "We've lost a train," said a technician as Ed entered. "It's in the Helix. And it won't come out." Ed quickly surveyed the huge board. The indicators indeed showed one train still within the Helix. It was southbound, he saw, from Henri-Bourassa, on one of the original lines, built just before Expo '#, two decades before. At the entrance to the Helix, trains were waiting on all lines. "No chance of a collision?" asked Don Carruthers, behind him. "No. By now, the computers will have turned on red Tights in all tunnels leading to the Helix." Precious seconds ticked by. One technician left the glowing panel to step to a rack and push what must have been a reset button for the bells. The computers' exaggerated ringing stopped, though the emergency light continued to glow silently. The quiet seemed more awful than the clangor of the bells. Ed walked to the big panel. He dialed a number on a device not unlike the dials that had adorned telephones as recently as ten years before. He pushed a button. Nothing happened. He repeated the operation twice, three times. But the three indicator lights continued to show the train inside the Helix. Don Carruthers walked up to the panel. "It has never broken down in four years," Ed said almost in audibly. Carruthers touched his arm. "Look, I don't want to be a stranger at the wrong time, I -- " "No, don't go. You're no stranger to the Helix now. You might as well see it when it's not working." In the next few minutes Ed tried several tactics. He bypassed the Helix controls and asked the twin computers, with a hastily drawnMp Cobol program, to release the train on line two, southbound. The computer teleprinter typed out tially programed to write that word, Ed knew; when an error had been made in a program. He checked his program for a flub, couldn't find one and began writing another, calling for a different operations sequence. The switchboard operator came in. she told Ed. "They want to know what we're going to do about the breakdown." Ed looked at his watch. Only twenty-two minutes had elapsed since the bells had sounded. It had seemed like three times as long. "Tell them," he said, "to get everything with wheels out there on the road. There must be a halfdowntown." Ed completed his second program and fed it to the computers IF once more. The teleprinter came to life in seconds. A third program, more like the first. It was the phrase they had been told to print, to mock anyone unfortunate enough to make errors in three successive programs. It had seemed funny when Ed had first programed them. "Why," he asked through clenched teeth, "can't I get it right?" "I think you are doing it right," said Carruthers. "You're just asking the computers to do something they can't do." Ed protested. "But they can do it. They're in charge. They run the Helix." "Using what they know of the train positions," said Carruthers. "I'll bet you've programed them to keep two trains from colliding, no matter what." "Of course." "That means," said Carruthers, "that the computers won't take orders about when to release a train. In fact, they don't even recognize such instructions. They assume you made a mistake in the program and give you the thumbs-down sign." T he telephone call was for Ed. At the other end was the chairing to know what was going on. It was bad enough that the entire Metro -- save the three lines not using the Helix -- was paralyzed. But the reporters were down his neck, wanting details on what radio and television were already calling the biggest traffic tieup in Monteal history. Worse, one of the sharper newsmen had already dug up the rumor that a train was missing in the Helix. "Get that train out!" was the orman had never been enamored of the Helix project. He had agreed to its construction only because the mayor had insisted. A-know this is probably a ridiculous idea. But what would happen if you just turned the Helix off?" "I don't know. We've never tried it because of the danger. It might work. Or it might lose us the train forever." "You said it was a bit like modulating an AM transmitter. If you shut off the signal to the transmitter the signal returns to the baseline. For the train that would mean home." "True," said Ed. "But if you shut the power off on the transmitter, the carrier doesn't return to its starting point. It vanishes." There was a brief silence before Carruthers said, "Why not try it on your model Helix?" The two men stared at each other. Without a word they marched to the room where the little Helix, with its marble chute, was kept. Ed snapped on the power switch. He waited for a few seconds, then released the marble from the top. He operated the two buttons in sequence and the marble seemed to roll through the steel plate to the floor. "Now -- " said Ed. He released the marble again, but this time pushed only the operate button. The marble rolled into the tunnel and vanished. Ed placed his finger on the power switch. "Here goes nothing." He pushed tbe switch to off. Nothing happened. On. Off. On. Still nothing. Ed pushed the release button. The marble did not reappear. He pushed the operate and release buttons again, with no result. He reached for a Robertson screwdriver and removed the screws holding the cover of the black tunnel. He removed the cover, exposing the entire chute. The steel plate was there. But the marble was not. The two men returne'd to the Helix room, the telephone operator was back on the line. "Some reporters to see you, Mr. Fontaine." "Tell them to go see the brass at head office," Ed told her. "They say they did so, sir. And they were told to come see you." going to see him and the Helix project tarred and feathered. "I don't want to talk to them. Tell them -- " He thought for a moment. "Tell them that a breakdown has taken place in the Helix. One train has been stranded but we hope to get it out soon." "Think you can?" asked Carruthers when he had cradled the receiver. "God knows." Ed felt suddenly hoAv much younger and less experienced he was than his New York visitor. He was used to pressure of a certain kind -- the kind generated by taking on a project that no one else believed would work. And his self-assurance had stood him in good stead, especially when he had talked the city of Montreal into letting him, a raw graduate, ory. But he was not accustomed to the knowledge that the lives -- or possible deaths -- of thousands depended on him. Don Carruthers had faced such crises often during his ten years might have gained such experience, had he not been in charge of a project which had worked with eerie perfection. Until today. He looked at his watch. Five minutes to seven. Almost an hour and a quarter had elapsed since the train had vanished into the Helix. And he stood no closer IF to a solution than he had before the bells had begun to ring. Five to seven, Julia had been due at his office at six. He walked to the switchboard operator's desk. "Has my fiancee been here asking for me?" "No, Mr. Fontaine." "I was expecting her at six." "She probably couldn't get through," she said, "The Metro's not working and you can't get a cab for love or money tonight." It was true, Ed knew. He stepped to a telephone and punched out Julia's familiar number. He let the soft electronic whirr sound ten times before he replaced the receiver. She probably couldn't get through the traffic, he repeated to himself. Yet,,, Yet she hadn't called to let him know. The omission was uncharacteristic of exact, punctual Julia. A chill caught his heart. He turned again to the switchboard operator. "What was the exact time of the accident?" "Five-thirty-nine in the afternoon, according to the operations center. Train seven-three had just picked up passengers at Sherbrooke station before entering the Helix." And before that, Ed thought, it had stopped at Mont-Royal station. Among the passengers boarding might have been Julia, Julia, bound for downtown to meet him. To paint the town. and someone else had dragged a microwave coffeepot from a drawer. The device was not large, but it could brew coffee six times faster than the old heating-element coffee-makers. The coffee less than great, thought Ed, but it was what he needed. He turned down the pizza. Twelve hours had passed -- no more than twelve hours, since he had awakened with Julia's soft hair in his eyes. He remembered how upset she had been at the thought of leaving Montreal. New York had seemed far away to her. But how much farther away was she tonight? Where were Leopold Geoffory's extra two dimensions? Geoffroy himself hadn't cared. It had been enough for him that the dimensions existed in the world of mathematics -- and that the mathematics corresponded to some sort of physical reality. And he, Ed Fontaine, had agreed with Geoffroy that it was unnecessary to have a subjective notion of just what the physical reality was... But now things had gone wrong. And suddenly it was vitally important to know where the Geoffroy dimensions lay. Ed walked, slowly, back into the Helix room. The emergency lights and the lights indicating the train in the Helix still glowed. He fingered the controls again, ordering the Helix to disgorge its prey -- with the same results as before. It was then that Ed noticed Don Carruthers, his tie loosened and his jacket off, working at a table in a corner. Ed could see that Carruthers had before him a sheaf of equations for the Geoffroy effect. And he had made copious notations on some sheets of paper. "Ideas?" Ed asked. "Yes." "Don't keep them to yourself." "I've come to an inescapable conclusion," said Carruthers, He paused dramatically. "Leopold Geoffroy should have stuck to his biochemistry .'' "What do you mean?" "Simply that the Geoffroy effect is a lot of hooey." "But it works," protested Ed. "Yeah? Make it work now." Ed remembered his mathematical superiority over the older man andhe felt a twinge of resentment. "I've gone over the theory again," continued Carruthers, indicating the papers. "What Geoffroy describes mathematically is a five-dimensional Helix, established and maintained by a giant electrical field." "Yes -- so?" "So, when you cut the power to an electrical field, it collapses. That means the marble should have reappeared in your baby Helix when you cut the power." "But it didn't." "It didn't," said Carruthers, "because Geoffroy was wrong. When was the last time you played with an ordinary oscilloscope?" "Back in my undergrad days, I suppose," replied Ed. "You should do it more often. You'll learn things. Now if you use the 'scope in the ordinary way, you insert a signal into the x axis to get vertical deflection and the y axis to get horizontal deflection of the dot on the screen. Now many 'scopes, in the back, have a third input, corresponding to a z axis." "To deflect the electron beam in a third direction," said Ed, "in and out of the screen." "The hell!" shouted Carruthers. "Sure you treat that beam mathematically as though it moved in a third dimension. But what does it really do?" "It -- it cuts off." "Damn right. It doesn't go into the surface of the oscilloscope screen. It just goes away." "But it comes back." Carruthers shook his head. "No it doesn't. That's another electron beam, a different stream of electrons. You call it the same beam because it appears where you'd expect the vanished beam to reappear. That's what's wrong with confusing mathematics and physics. Just because IF there appears to be a correspondence between your equations and reality, you assume that the correspondence is perfect." "If I understand," said Ed, "you don't believe the Geoffroy Helix really exists." "And it doesn't. Your baby Helix," said Carruthers, "didn't swing the marble around in some unknown dimensions to 'get it around that steel plate. It destroyed that marble And it built a copy of it on the other side." "That's ridiculous." "That's why the marble vanished when you turned off the power. The circuit forgot how to duplicate the lost marble." The silence was long before Ed spoke. "If you're right -- people taking a train through the Helix never really come back. What comes back is a clever electronic imitation, with a copy of their features a copy of their newspaper -- "And counterfeit money in their pockets," added Carruthers. "Then how do we get the Helix to build us a new train just like the old one?" "Repair the fault in the Helix circuitry." "But we can't do that without shutting it down. And if we do -- " Carruthers nodded grimly. Ed thought again of Julia, a nonexistent Julia -- vaporized earlier in the evening -- of whom only his own electronic creation held the blueprint. The thought remained in his mind as he gazed at the Helix panel. And so it happened that he was watching at the precise moment that three lights blinked on, indicating that a train had left the Helix and' was P.O. Box #, Santa Monica, Cal. # a vehicle for thought-provoking, controversial articles, and a '"service" magazine containing dozens of sf and fantasy book reviews per issue, along with news releases, coming events, news items of interest to fans, readers and professionals. convention at Heidelberg in #... for the second year in a row. Sample Subscription -- # issues for I . # per year. pulling into Berri-de-Montigny station -- three hours late. tice to the moments of jubilation that followed, as news of the train's return spread through the building. Ed himself felt a relief that all but brought tears to his eyes. He felt too jubilant to take seriously what happened next. The switchboard operator, working well beyond her normal quitting time, phoned him. "There's a man at my desk," she announced. "He says the Martians have landed!" Ed might have responded to such an announcement with laughter at the best of times. But now, following the tension of the evening and the sudden relief, he roared. The laughter bubbled out with peals of loud and merry sound. Martians? They were all he needed to end the day right. He was still laughing when a technician rushed in. "It's true!" the technician cried. "I saw one outside -- " Ed's laughter died. Something in his mind clicked and instantly he knew there would indeed be strange beings outside. There were no more surprises in the words he heard swirling about him. "Somebody said they came out of the Berri Metro..." "They're almost like people but purplish and wrinkled, like anteaters..." "There are hundreds..." Ed brushed past the others toward the front door. A cold terror crept up from the base of his spine. And over the terror were the thoughts of his cool, scientific mind. He did not scream as he saw the anteater-like beings. He knew. Carruthers had been right. The Helix was no helix at all. It destroyed and reconstituted them from memory. But its memory was limited. It remembered by repeating the message, over and over, to itsdf... How many times had it repeated the blueprint of the missing train in three hours? And how accurately? Not Martians! Commuters -- as remembered in a story that has been repeated again and again and again... Human beings remembered by an inhuman machine that had been forced to remember too long. And Ed's horrified brain knew what he was seeing. One of the pathetic, shuffling creatures -- its snout dripping with a nameless fluid, its purplish, wrinkled head covered in long matted hair -- had blue eyes. It wore a gold-colored robe. Ed Fontaine sank to his knees, mouthing the word that was to become an unending scream. "Julia..."  IF A Earth was out of boundsr but Radnor from the stars had a job to do! R adnor fell a powerful urge to sleep. No reason not to. The prisoner was securely bound. Sleep for a few moments. What would it matter? Sleep, and dream of homecoming. He had earned it. A short nap. Lovely sleep. Quiet and peaceful. Quiet and sleepy. Quiet... No! He bolted erect and scrubbed the back of his hand across sagging eyelids, trying to fight the languor that melted his insides. He stumbled and grabbed the command cot stanchions to steady himself. His blurry vision cleared as he shook off his torpor and scanned the cramped cabin -- and understood. Sitting behind the plastocene psi-shield, his prisoner. Kern, smiled sardonically and raised his eyebrows. "Nice try," Radnor said. "But not this time." He shivered inwardly and felt much less confident than he tried to appear. What power Kern must possess! He had entered Radnor's mind, nearly hypnotizing him without even gaining his conscious attention -- and through a psi-shield at that. But Radnor hadn't made First Bailiff by being careless, or weak, or easily deceived. Complete this assignment successfully and he would get his final promotion to Division Chief. No more lonely transport trips from Melan's correction block to the psi-test asteroid in its isolated corner of the galaxy. Be cautious, he told himself. Kern is special.,. But then, so was Radnor. No one in the Bailiff Corps tested so high in survival potential; few had the danger instinct he possessed, a touch of undefined psi that had made him the logical choice as Kern's transport guard. If anyone was a logical choice. Even the medicos on Melan were unable to define the extent of Kern's abilities. He was unusual -- that much they knew -- perhaps even unique. More precise definition could wait until the specialists took over when Radnor dropped him at the psi-test center (when -- he refused to think if). He had studied Kern's scanty dossier carefully before accepting the assignment. He knew Kern as well as anyone could, but that knowledge did not include understanding. How a man could delight in violence and motiveless treachery was beyond understanding. Yet Kern did. Irrefutable evidence lay recorded in his dossier; interference with public communication networks, for no reason; several murders, all unexplainable in rational terms; fantastic public escapades, such as his somehow forcing the Melanian governor's wife to disrobe at the height of the Spring Renewal Rites, just as the priests had begun the most solemn of absolutions. Though Kern's powers were as yet undefined, his insanity was clear. For reasons the medicos were still trying to explain, instability and abnormal psi-powers always seemed mental partners. Paranoids are often merely perceptives in a limited way, gleaning from the thoughts of those around them only the violence and hatred that remain subliminal in healthy minds. The poltergeist phenomenon occurs only in the presence of the psi-gifted and aberrant who recognize neither of those traits in themselves. But the proportions of psi-power and instability vary with the individual. Most of the precogs or telepaths on Melari -- a minute proportion of the populace -- were merely eccentric. Because they devoted their skills to IF socially beneficial ends, people ignored tljeir eccentricities. And when extreme psi-gifts combined with the self-awareness of social deviation, the most fully gifted usually drove themselves into a kind of self-induced catatonia; they were thus no problem. Y et there was Kern. Undoubtedly the strongest gift ever recorded in Melanian medical history, his powers had led to insanity but not to self-censure. If the word "anti-social" had any absolute meaning, it meant "Kern." Radnor had formulated a theory about it after reading the dossier, but the medicos had refused to listen. Kern was still a child, no matter his physiological age. That had to be it. In some corner of the quagmire that might be called Kern's mind lurked a malevolent child, a demonic imp who delighted in grotesque pranks and lacked any touch of the most rudimentary conscience. But Radnor's theory had not prepared him for meeting his prisoner. He had found Kern cradled in a body-rack behind the silver-wired grid of a psi-shield, where the medicos had strapped him after capturing him in his sleep. Radnor's gorge rose at the memory: a huge lizard exuding its fetid saurian stench, its abdomen ripped open to display the swarming, bloody  mass of twisted intestines, had greeted him with a wordless, keening cry. For a moment. Then the raucous laugh that was really Kern had echoed through the ship and the lizard had faded from sight to reveal Kern sitting there behind his pleased smirk. Just as he sat now. He was handsome, Radnor admitted, though he disliked finding anything about the prisoner he could admire -- close-cropped electric, blue eyes; Kern looked like a tri-di of the All-Man, which Radnor had seen so many times floating above the altar in every Melanian temple. Handsome was not an adequate word. Commanding, charismatic, dynamic -- all of these came nearer the mood Radnor felt laving over his thoughts as he stared at the prisoner. But even as he stared, he knew that Kern might look nothing at all as he now appeared, for that was the distinctive mark of the man's powers: as far as the medicos had been able to establish, Kern wasn't precog, showed no evidence of telepathic or telekinetic powers, lacked most of the usual abilities one expected to find. He was instead a chameleon, able to change appearance at will. No one knew whether he literally changed form or only seemed to. Even in sleep his features shifted slightly. What inconclusive physiological examinations the medicos had been able to perform proved nothing. If anyone touched him he shimmered through a whole range of shapes, occasionally human, more often animal. A psishield damped that ability but could not cancel it out, proof in itself of the man's powers. Radnor was not even certain of Kern's sex; he had seen him once as a provocative nude girl, motioning toward him and pleading with wordless sounds. But that had been moments after takeoff. Then Radnor had been fresh, wary, not as strangely tired as he now felt. The deceit had failed -- intellect overcoming what his glands had urged -- and had even served as a memorable warning. With the long journey from Melan to the psi-test center still ahead, he had tried to avoid looking at Kern, except when feeding him. They had a month together in the tiny ship and Radnor was determined to see his cargo safely in the hands of the psi-specialists. Let them figure Kern out. Still, this current Resemblance between Kern and the All-Man was uncanny, even if it were merely a momentary shape Kern had assumed. The fact that the likeness was so striking argued a logical mind underlying the transfomation. The dossier spoke of Kern's totally random behavior. Radnor no longer accepted that evaluation; Kern obviously chose his disguises carefully, could calculate intended effect and was therefore even more dangerous than the medicos kijew. Radnor stared at the bronzed, muscular form straining at the bonds behind the shield. How could such foulness appear so outwardly benign? He snorted at his own maudlin feelings and recognized unbidden sympathy coursing through him. He knew better than to become involved with a prisoner; all bailiffs knew better. His job was merely to capture if necessary, to transport, but not to judge. Let the medicos examine and cure Kern. It was none of his business, no matter how curious he might be. But how, for example, could Kern sit immobile for hours at a time? Radnor stared. A slight haze swept over Kern's features, defocusing him momentarily. Could he be in the act of shifting to some new form? Radnor peered more closely, unable to look away, fascinated by what the next few moments might show him. A faint noise at his back irritated him; something was interfering with his concentration. He swept an angry hand over his face and drew it away in shock. He was drenched -- perspiration was pouring down his forehead. He glanced away from Kern to the soaked palm or his own hand and as he did he saw -- out of the corner of his now distracted eye -- that the prisoner's body rack was empty! He quickly looked IF back to see Kern in place, still immobile, but shimmering and insubstantial. A trick.,, the thought hit him. A faint shadow waving. A sound behind him. Then Kern struck. Radnor fell heavily to the deck at the explosion inside his skull. Calling on every scintilla of concentration, he hung grimly onto consciousness and lurched upright to one knee. He turned toward the pain in time to glimpse a huddled figure hurling itself into the escape capsule. Then the airlock iris cycled and Kern was gone. Radnor gave in to unconsciousness. H e found himself kneeling beside the control console, one hand already on the scanner switch. Trying to ignore the pounding inside his head, he crawled onto the command cot and simultaneously activated the scanners. Through luck -- or some instinct Radnor couldn't name -- Kern had chosen the right instant to effect his escape. The capsule plummeted toward Sol Three, the only habitable planet in that system and the nearest possible hiding place. So. the man did have a touch of the telepath in him, after all; he was clearly acting on Radnor's knowledge. Radnor thought of his Division Chiefs reaction. There went the Bailiff Corps' proud reputation, flitting away because of his inattention -- no escapes in over two centuries -- and now this. Worse, Kern was making straight for an interdicted system and its primitive world. There was no telling what a disruptive force he might prove. And to demonstrate space flight to primitives! The potential culture shock was inconceivable. All societies lacking atomic power -- Sol Three among them -- were under automatic interdiction. Radnor hesitated only a moment. For atmosphere entry alone, he might well be busted from the Corps, his career as Bailiff ruined. But if Kern escaped! He refused to consider it. He locked his tracer beam on the capsule growing smaller every second in the ship's scanners, and offered up a small prayer of apology as his ship dove lower, dragging down Radnor's future with it. Kern headed for the nightside, arching toward the northern atmosphere. Radnor closed the gap. The escape capsule lacked the speed to lose its pursuer, but its lead now looked insurmountable. Radnor pushed his ship to the limits of safe entry velocity -- not enough. He switched from praying to cursing -- perhaps less effective but certainly more satisfying -- and reached beneath the command cot for his huntpack, which he checked quickly as the ship blazed its way into the heavy atmosphere. Tranquilizer darts; stunner, fully charged; shiplink beacon; pitons and elastisteei line; the pouch of diamonds, acceptable exchange anywhere in the known universe, though Radnor planned never to be in the position of having to contact a native for anything so risky as face-to-face trading; infrared beam and goggles; concentrated food for several days; psi-detector; and the force-field of the pack casing itself -- everything in place and operational. He flipped the bow scanner to full magnification and watched the capsule heading for the lower tip of a huge lake which glimmered flat in the light of Sol Three's single moon. Then he saw the rockets flare as the capsule blasted against gravity's pull and settled to a thundering crash near the lake. 'The capsule, unlike Radnor's ship, lacked anti-grav and depended for landing upon simple thrust engines, a fact that now gave Radnor a target, a spot glowing orange-blue in the night. He slowed to land near the flames licking around the capsule's touchdown point, only to freeze in momentary horror. A scant five thousand meters above the surface, he saw below him row upon row of faint lights winking in the darkness. Kern had landed in the midst of a settlement. Radnor reacted quickly, allowing the automatics to seek out a clear area and waft his ship gently to the surface. Full refrigeration cooled the ship's hull as it descended and Radnor waited for anchored stability before cycling the exterior hatch. He peered cautiously at his surroundings. Through the goggles now fitted close over his eyes he watched the pool of infrared from his helmet beam illuminate the ground around him. His ship sat beside a squat building some eight meters high, only slightly shorter than the ship itself. On all sides similar buildings reared their crude shapes in the darkness, all apparently of unpainted, wooden construction, all approximately square. They presented a little problem. He spun the rheostat which controlled the ship's surface spectrum until a shrill whine sounded in his ears. He locked the rheostat. His ship now matched the surrounding buildings in color and apparent texture. In the dark -- he fervently hoped -- no one would notice. And he would be gone by morning. He gritted his teeth. He would be gone by morning! His last airborne glimpse of the capsule's impact area had told him that less than a kilometer separated him from his quarry. He moved in that direction, huddling close to the wooden buildings as he did. A brief check of his shiplink beacon reassured him. It homed on the disguised ship and would serve to lead him back, should he become disoriented in these unfamiliar surroundings. IF He located a street which led toward the flames now lighting the night sky, the point of Kern's touchdown. He stepped tentatively forward, then ducked back as two men passed in animated conversation. He understood nothing of what they said -- nor did he plan to spend the hours necessary to learn their language through the ship's translator banks -- but their agitation was clear. They pointed toward the fire and broke into a quick trot. Others joined them, boiling out of the small buildings which lined the dirt street buildings all square, all squat, all nondescript. At least one problem had solved itself: the people's garments were not particularly unusual, most of them twopiece arrangements of shirt and trousers. The women wore long skirts which swept the dusty board sidewalks. Radnor decided his neutral gray coverall would pass, at least in the dark. And happily not all the men he saw were bearded. He stowed the goggles and infrared beam back in his pack; gas lanterns spotted at intervals along the winding street provided sufficient light. Keeping apart from the crowd ' which milled down the length of the street, he followed quickly. Then a strange clamor drove him into a doorway where he waited tense. A steaming boiler drawn by four large quadrupeds rattled past. The clanging noise sounded from a large bell mounted atop the boiler, shaken by one of the men who clung recklessly to the side of the careening cart. It looked to be some sort of steam pump though Radnor wasn't certain. But now he knevy why this world was laid under interdict. Apparently it lacked even internal combustion engines, let alone atomic power. He thought once more of his pending promotion and sighed. If he got out of this mess without being discovered... He covered nearly a kilometer before reaching the fire. It had already spread to several buildings along the riverfront but seemed to be under control. Fire fighters concentrated on containing the flames, spraying water on the surrounding buildings. He couldn't approach the center of the blaze, not with the crowd gathered between him and the light, so he contented himself with trying to understand the crowd's behavior. Every few moments a man or boy would burst through the wall of people standing before him and dash past, carrying bulky fabric sacks looted from the fire area. When one of the sacks split and spilled on the street, Radpor snatched up a piece of its contents: compressed carbon, a primitive fuel. And that accounted for the head of the blaze now illuminating the sky overhead. Kern had landed in or near a fuel storage area. Huge piles of the carbon burned with great intensity, sending up acrid fumes and flickering blue lights. With any luck the capsule might already be consumed in the blaze. And that would solve another problem. For an instant Radnor almost gave in to the wild hope that Kern, too, might have been trapped in the pyre, but he could not bring himself to wish the extinction of any sentient creature, even one so patently mad as Kern. He drew the psi-detector from his pack and stared at the directional indicator. Nothing. If Kern lived, he was out of range. Luckily no one else in the crowd registered the slightest quiver on the detector's gauge. That would have been theend of his hunt, Radnor knew, to discover that these primitives possessed measurable psi-powers. He almost smiled; things were looking up. He began the hunt. K eeping as near the blaze as caution would allow, he circled to the north, to his left. The fire had been contained, confined to four blocks of fuel depot and warves. The river to the est had saved the fire fighters a good share of their work; it also cut the arc of Radnor's search to a mere hundred and eighty degrees. He circled left to the water's edge, then doubled back to retrace his steps and scout the south half of the semicircle mapped out in his mind. The streets here were cobblestoned, the buildings larger but still of wooden construction. Passersby ignored him, more involved in shouting greetings to one another and waving bottles -- apparently some intoxicant. He sensed festival in the crowd's mood. The southern arc of his search failed to draw any indication on the psi-detector. Several times he stepped into doorways to avoid knots of men who roamed the streets, singing and shouting. And then he saw a flicker on his gauge; it pointed back the way he had come, back toward the ship. As he turned to move in that direction a trio of men accosted him boisterously, but he avoided their grasp and ducked around a corner -- and into the arms of a fleshy, flaccid woman with straw-colored hair and red dye smeared across her mouth. He recoiled from her touch before recognizing her for what she was. The night women on Melan shaved their heads -- he tried not to judge; cultures differ. He pushed past her just as she changed appearance before his eyes, the straw-colored hair giving way to a shaven, gilded skull. He snatched out the stunner, but Kern was gone into the darkness. Radnor cursed again and followed. Its a game to him. He is playing tag with me,., Radnor swung into an easy lope. IF glancing at the psi-detector's wobbling needle every few yards. Once he stumbled over a loose board in the sidewalk and heard Kern's raucous laughter from the darkness ahead. Kern was leading him back toward his own ship. It was hard to tell who dictated the game, he or Kern. And it was becoming obvious he was in real trouble -- how would he recapture someone he couldn't 'even recognize? Behind him pale light streaked the horizon above the ramshackle shanties. Morning soon. And what then? He mentally tested a few feeble excuses, trying to invent one his Division Chief might accept. None existed. It was find Kern, or else. He recognized buildings as he ran; he had come this way toward the Fire. But how could Kern know where the ship lay hidden? He couldn't see through the camouflage. Perhaps his powers included area-sensing. He had been aboard the ship long enough to familiarize himself with the aura of its electronic equipment, even though the dossier hadn't so much as hinted at such possible talents. Nova the dossier! And nova the medicos.,. No one but Radnor knew a thing about Kern. And Radnor knew nothing certain any longer -- nothing more than Kern's teasing him, a spoiled child playing a game. He sprinted along the dimly lighted street, scrambling awkwardly through a pile of discarded bottles and trash which lay in his path as he cut across an empty lot toward the ship. No one was there ahead of him. He paused to check the detector again. Motionless. But how? He knew Kern was nearby, sensed it. Stop, he told himself. Think it out. Why did,,. A door burst open to his left and sent him diving to the ground, stunner in his hand. A quarrel poured through the open door and followed a heavy-set woman into the predawn paleness. She carried a metal container and shouted something over her shoulder as she walked toward the squat building beside which Radnor's ship stood. He waited quietly when she paused to glance at his disguised ship in bewilderment, then turned to shake her fist at the deep voice which pursued her from the house. She walked on and Radnor relaxed. He watched her enter the shabby structure and lay thinking.  know Kerns not dead. Can he be asleep? Radnor glared at the sunlight slowly spreading its way up the side of his ship, then shook his head in resignation. He did not dare a liftoff in full daylight; someone would certainly see. And that meant he would have to wait till dark, either that or destroy the ship and sentence himself to live out his life in this barbaric settlement. Worse, such an action would consign Kern to their midst as well. When matters reached the stage of full dilemma, Radnor knew what to do. Nothing. He stopped planning. Let things happen, then react...  The deep voice roared through the lighted doorway once more, and Radnor treated himself to the luxury of shouting a tired curse in answer before entering his ship. D arkness settled. Radnor had spent the day in edgy rest, waiting for Kern's next move. All alarm systems were rigged but no one had approached the ship closer than a few meters. Radnor had not wasted his irritating leisure. Turning the ship.'s audible receivers to full power, he had lain in half-sleep while the ship's translator banks accumulated, parsed, analyzed and taught him the language. "English," the primitives called it, a complex system but not impossible to grasp. Radnor grinned wryly; he could return to Melan, the Bailiff Corps' only expert in this "English," a skill calculated to get him sacked rather than admired. Overheard conversations had provided him with interesting food for speculation. The. night before had indeed been a sort of festival which recurred each seventh day. Called "Satyr-day" in English, it signaled free rein to licentiousness for a brief time, followed in turn by "Sun-day," the day of recovery from Satyrday's excesses. People whose voices came through the ship's receivers boasted of clan warfare between locals and members of some civic subdivisions called "Conley's Patch" (named apparently for a resident) and "Kilgubbin" (untranslatable) to the northeast. But none of that information helped Radnor locate Kern, who remained hidden somewhere nearby. At dusk the buxom woman of the early morning had once more briefly interrupted her continuing quarrel with her mate to visit their "barn" (a building for storing grain and foodstuffs, housing livestock). Other than that, the day had passed quietly. No one took special notice of his ship, a fact that he laid to the primitives' state of misery hanging on from the revels of Satyr-day...When darkness completed itself, Radnor finished his preparations and Jeft the ship, leaving behind his huntpack. Even its forcefield was unnecessary; Kern had no physical weapons, no weapons at all, in fact except himself. And Radnor now knew more about that "self'; it was the very weapon he would use against Kern. Having watched people enter and leave several of the shanties in the neighborhood, he was certain that Kern hid in the "barn." It had remained deserted all day, except for the owner's brief visit, and Kern would certainly have chosen the IF best possible hiding place for the game he nowplayed. He was waiting to oust Radnor from the ship and take command himself -- "Hill Governor," they had called the game irr Radnor's youth. He stalked Kern slowly, trusting now to the indefinable tingle he had come to associate with Kern's presence aboard the ship. He moved toward the barn in a slow, arcing path, keeping between the barn exit and the ship. Must keep Kern from the ship. Supress all other thoughts. Keep Kern from the ship or hell escape... The barn door slid open easily at his touch and 'he peered into the musky darkness. The feeling was stronger. Kern was... Keep Kern from the ship or hell take off without me. It's easy to fly it. Anyone could fly it. Keep Kern from the ship... He stepped inside. Shadows flickered along the far wall, cast in the light of a petroleum lantern left hanging on a hook inside the door. Kern was nowhere in sight. Several feathered bipeds ""chickens"') clucked and scratched at the dusty floor. Don't let Kern get to the ship. The red switch activates anti-grav. If . Kern lies on the command cot and hits that switch...Keep Kern from the ship... Two cows (mature female bovine, genus Bos) swung their sad eyes toward him and lowed quietly. Radnor moved toward the far end of the barn, peering carefully into the dark corners. Where would he hide? What pect. Keep Kern from the ship. Easy to fly. Freedom that way. Win the game. Finders keepers... He inched slowly through the swirling dust, carefully turning his back to the door and forcing himself not to think. To think, to think, to think... It happened. Kern's wild laugh echoed behind him but Radnor willed himself still, not moving, giving Kern the chance to run. He turned then and saw one of the cows rise up on heritshis hind legs and shift form, now Kern, now not-Kern. And Kern made his break. Radnor walked slowly toward herithim, thinking. Safe if he gets to the ship. Nothing to stop him. The ship and escape... But he had misjudged his quarry. Not content merely to flee Kern snatched the lantern from its hook with one handhoof -- and hurled it. Radnor ducked as the petroleum spewed across the wooden floor and scattered a Carpet of golden flames washing through the tinder-dry refuse toward him. A curtain of fire rose instantly to the rafters and cut off Radnor's escape. But he whirled and kicked out a wooden shutter, then dove through the opening as Kern rounded the corner of the barn, sprinting now on two legs. shifting appearance in the ghostly light that flickered through cracks in the barn wall. Radnor heard, I win! echo in his mind's ear. He hit the hatch opening an instant before it cycled shut. He was inside, thinking, Kerns free. Hell escape. The red switch. Lie on the cot and hit the red switch,,. He flinched in the deluge of laughter pouring over him and watched Kern, now the bronzed All-Man again, dive to the couch and slam a palm against the antigrav activator. And against the tranquilizer dart imbedded there, point up. Kern lunged back in anger, but too late. Elastisteel webbing fell from overhead and pinioned him to the command cot, where he struggled violently as the ship lifted. Then his struggles grew weaker as his body betrayed him. Only his mind reached out to Radnor, crying. Cheating! Cheating!  won! Radnor ducked behind the psishield and protected himself with mentally recited paradigms: I am, you are, he is, we are, you are, they are , , , When Kern's thrashing subsided Radnor inched cautiously out from behind the psi-shield and finished binding his prisoner, this time in coil after coil of elastisteel line. He propped and strapped Kern once more in the body rack and vowed not to exchange so much as a glance with him until touchdown at the psi-test asteroid. Let the medicos take over then. A few days more and the assignment was over, a few days in which to rehearse his testimony. If he could persuade the Division Chief that, he had saved the Corps' reputation against impossible odds he might not be drummed out in disgrace. And as for violating the interdiction, well -- no harm done. Special to The Clarion #, #I -- Yesterday's blaze still rages out of control in the West and South Divisions. Various authorities have blamed labor agitators, a group of the city's Irish pilfering in the dead of night or other unnamed agents. Mr. Padraic Sweeney of # DeKoven St. reports having seen a cow upset a lantern which ignited the O'Leary barn. Mrs. O'Leary denies it, claiming instead that lightning struck the barn at #:# P.M. Police suspect the same party or parties unknown who set Saturday night's mysterious fire between Canal and Clinton Streets. They are investigating and expect to make arrests shortly...  IF darkly into the glass of the future that these are confusing times. It must be so. Of course, reading the auguries from the flight of birds or the necromantic spread of intestinal fortitude is at best a chancy occupation. Yet I've always labored under the simplistic idea that in the area I know the flight of birds northward presages summer. Now others, at worst as close to market conditions as I, look at the sky and , proclaim loudly that all the signs portend a long and cold winter. For several years now I have been hearing the clamor of those most sure of their oracular art that the old ways in popular fiction -- and especially in science fiction -- are dead. We are about to see the deluge of the main stream wash away all the trash of our pulp settling pond. Then there will be an end to all but the most serious and artistic handling of the messages of those writers saddened by the bitter experience of perhaps three decades. The days of pulp fiction are gone, and science fiction has been displaced by speculative fiction, or street fiction -- whatever that is -- or some such. Then I go down to my neighborhood newsstand or watch the mail that comes bearing advance copies of books from the publishers. Damn it, the birds are still flying north in the same old ways and waves -- and there seem to be other wild and exultant bugling of the geese flying back to their homes and their places of origin. For every book that heralds a new movement fraught with new messages, I see three that are harking more and more strongly back to the old forms of entertainment. I see serial characters coming back to their former strength. I even see some of the same characters that kept me awake reading by little besides moonlight being reprinted and being read by young audiences. And I see writers who have made their largest reputation by the work that was avant garde for its time now turning happily toward ways in fiction that are older than they are. Take a look at the stands. G-# is flying over the trenches again, the Shadow still haunts the night and Doc Savage has returned from Hell to lead his small band through a long list of (almost) science-fiction adventures. Conan is doing welHn Aquilonia and elsewhere, and all the Burroughs crew (Edgar Rice, from fates more interesting than death. And all have their imitators among our writers. It would no longer surprise me to see even the continuation of Joe Skidmore's Posi and Nega series from ancient days. Case in point: Lord of the Trees and TheMad Goblin, by Philip Jose Farmer (Ace Double, #). Few writers have enjoyed or earned more respect for setting new horizons for science fiction than Farmer. From his first story on, through more than twenty years, he has led his own individual fight to do his own thing as a writer -- and he has done so, often exceedingly well. He has also written quite a few stories for the pure fun of adventure and entertainment, but those have also carried a strong element of individuality. Now he has set about a sort of spoof of two old pulp-hero series -- and has also managed to tell a story (since both knit together to form one main story) that could well stand on its own as a first class pulp job. Goblin deals with the later exploits of a man who is obviously the model for Lester Dent's original Doc Savage; and Lord Grandrith admits at once that he is the man whose "biographer" romanticized him as Tarzan. Both are alive and well today -- and, of course, immortal; they have to be to carry on as of old. Doc Caliban even has two men who are the sons of and almost identical with his old friends. Ham and Monk. But these two are pien who were once led somewhat astray by a company of the Nine -- the evil immortals who secretly control the world -- in return for that immortality. Now each in his separate way is trying to stamp out that evil. Goblin strikes me as a remarkably successful modern episode to tie into the Doc Savage cycle. It IF works exactly as the originals did and I think it would have sold (with only necessary changes) to the original magazine on its merit back in those good old days. The modernizing and Farmer insights into 'Doc Caliban" seem to add much and take nothing away from the original. The Tree Lord episode is more spotty. At the beginning and through at least half of it, I was delighted. Farmer shows every sign of being able to get to the heart of the whole Tarzan legend and to make his character a man both feral and romantic, without distorting much of anything. But then the fact that the two stories are knit into one begins to warp things. Tarzan always managed to wind up in some wild and wondrous place, from Opar on, with very few exceptions -- as in his adventure with the Leopard Men, a distinctly inferior job -- Lord Grandrith misses the boat here because he has to get back to join forces with Caliban. From the moment he gets out of the pit he becomes only a shadow to the other character -- and this doesn't ring right. But taken as a spoof or even taken straight, the total book is fun to read. And I hope that Farmer will go on to do sequels -- though please, Phil, get Grandrith into the wonderlands of the apeman we know, even if you have to take him out of the main scene of Caliban's mission. T here are plenty of true modern science fiction and science fantasy serial books being issued today. I count at least a score without turning to my bookshelves to check for more. Most of them leave a good bit to be desired. But one showed signs of developing after what I considered a rather unimpressive start, and the writer strikes me as one who could come closer to catching the feeling and romance of the old Burroughs Martian books than anyone else today. I'd hate to see him falter, though he seems to be doing so. Due to be published late in December, Assassins of Gor by John Norman (Ballantine, #:) is the fifth of the Gor series. In some ways it shows tremendous promise; but as a piece of fiction by itself, it fails pretty badly through most of its great length. Gor, the counter-Earth opposite us around the Sun, is shaping up as a planet with the feeling of reality that I associate only with Burroughs' worlds. From the view of developing background, the series has been getting steadily better. And there is some evidence that Norman is learning a great deal about the craft of writing adventure fiction. LFnfortunately he seems also to desire desperately to lay waste his talents in pursuit of his dream of bilge messages. The first two of the series were pretty routine imitations of Burroughs, as I saw them (though I was told Norman had never read Burroughs; I reserve my private doubts). Then, with PriestKings of Gor, came a sudden spurt upward. Here the wooden menace of the Priest Kings became totally different from the routine menace of the Gods of Mars. The Priest Kings developed their own traits and rationale and Norman suddenly proved that he could handle feelings and emotions as well as mere action. Then we got Nomads of Gor, which wasn't too bad, except that a great part of it was devoted to the stirring messages of Men's Lib: Get beneath me, female chauvinist slave! Where he should have been liandling the story of the finding of the lost Priest Kings' egg, he spent great periods proving that in reality women were only happy when they were being totally subdued by a Real Man who would prove their natural state of slavery. A little of that was sort of fun, but it wasn't as good as the rest of the life of the Nomads, where Norman was showing how very good he could be at handling background. Now, in the latest book, he's back at the old stand of Male Supremacy with a slightly different flavor. (Why it is called Assassins is a puzzle; there's only one assassin, and he isn't, really; should have been Slaves of Gor,) While women are still naturally much happier when being subdued by men, it turns out that generally slavery is a rather bad thing. It's nice to have such significant messages and original insights on so controversial a theme, Mr. Norman, but they get in the way of the story. In fact, there is basically no story for # of the lengthy book. Then, to be sure, it does pick up and proceed fairly well -- but that's a bit late. This time, Tarl Cabot is both an avowed assassin and an agent of the Priest Kings to find more about an extra-Solar race that seems to be trying to overthrow both Gor and Earth. He goes to the great city 'of Ar and takes up service in the house of the chief salve trader of the city. Then he sits around and watches and observes and occasionmlly thinks a little and eats and rests and gets a chance to see and brags a bit to himself and... Norman seems intent on proving that he isn't any mere hack adventure writer. He shows us he can do tricks. He begins his book very cleverly in the third person as Kuurus the Assassin and then switches most cunningly in the middle of a chapter to Tarl Cabot in the first person, as the other books were told. Clever -- ineffective and needless, but you cait see how he sneaked up on the silly readers. Norman has also discovered that great literary device, the flashback; that is, when he comes to anything the reader IF might want to experience directly, he jumps immediately into some stirring insight into slave handling, and then only leisurely gets around to telling what happened after the skip. That way he doesn't have to waste long pages on major events but can summarize them in a paragraph or so. It's a device that always wins great applause and respect from bad writers, since it saves so much hard writing and also makes the writer feel he isn't doing mere action fiction. Of course, it denies the reader exactly what he bought the book for -- but wouldn't the reader really rather find out how slaves hold a drunken holiday? The grossest example of this comes when Norman has carefully and rather tensely built up to a major race between the great birds of Gor, the Tarn. Cabot must win, since he has to prove himself, and everything looks hopeless. But after he starts, we have to wade through pages of Chapter # to find that -- oh, yes, incidentally he won and became the most famous Tarn racer on Gor -- he can still beat up a slave girl. There are also repeated examples of the writer forgetting what he has already stated and restating it and then telling it all over again. This could have been edited out easily with a slash of the blue pencil, but I suppose Norman has joined the great artists among our writers who know their worda-are too precious to change. Or else some editor wasn't trying that day. It's a shame, because Norman has begun to get an. excellent feeling for the planet of Gor and its people, and it is beginning to emerge as more than the cardboard background most writers other than Burroughs have created. And under all the waste and guff of this book, there are the bones of a story that may be important in future books in the series. If you're an incurable fan of Gor (or if you're merely curious about the development of John Norman), I suppose this book should be read. There's some pleasure in it, and judicious skipping in the first half should make it reasonably easy reading. I still hope there will be further books. Perhaps more experience and a few good words from other writers will persuade Norman that he's basically a darned good story teller and that he doesn't have to go chuntering off after spurious messages and cheap tricks. He can probably be the best in his field, if I'd hate to see this revival of the pulpier background die away again for lack of care by the writers and the editors. It can serve as a stepping stone into better science fiction for readers who could not be turned on by the artcynic school. Also, there's room for every kind of good fiction and honest writing in any field Whether new wave, old wave or other wave, any way of telling a good story or giving readers genuine satisfaction should be encouraged, rather than stamped out for anything except bad craft and dishonest intent. One of the most encouraging facts about science Fiction to me is that good books seem to be less apt to die quickly in this field than any other. Books go out of print, but most of them appear again in a few years. The beginning reader is less likely to miss a classic science-fiction story today than ever before. a number of stories which should have been considered classics, but which are lost to most of his adult readers because they appeared in hard covers as Scribner juveniles. This made them too expensive for many readers and turned others off because they didn't want to read that "kid stuff" They missed quite a bit, however, since none of Heinlein's juveniles is anything but an adult book with a slightly younger hero -- often accompanied by or working through an older protagonist. In fact, most of the kids who seem to put him first in their science-fiction reading give as their chief reason the fact that the books don't read like "kid books." A couple of these have been available in soft covers for some years, but most have been restricted to the hardbound library editions. Now the limits seem to be off Heinlein's Tunnel in the Sky has been released in paper from Ace at #, and I hope it's the beginning of a trend. This is a cracking good old-style adventure story, with a well-constructed set of ethical considerations and ideas built into it. And there's nothing obvious about the characters, the background, or the plot itself -- as there is in too much of what is called juvenile fiction. It's the story of a bunch of young men and women (old enough to have children, so I don't consider them "kids") who are sent through a tube between or through or over the dimensions to another world as a test of their fitness to graduate from Survival Training. They can pick their own weapons and equipment but they're to know nothing about their destination in advance. They must survive there for two weeks before they can be returned. Those who live graduate; the others obviously have failed the course. The going for the principals is tough enough for two weeks. But at the end of that time the pickup fails to appear. And they gradually realize that they may be stranded for years -- or forever. They still know almost nothing about the dangers of the world on which IF they find themselves. But as best they can they have to find a way to pass the ultimate Survival Test -- Ihe survival of self and kind. Nothing is obvious from there on. But it's beautifully worked out. If you haven't read it, do so at once. Ace has also reissued Ursula K. LeGuin's City of Illusions (#:). This is vaguely related to the same author's award-winning Left Hand of Darkness, but can stand wholly on its own. It's an odd story of one not-quite-human man's odyssey through a strange and haunted Earth to find for himself the enemy of the true humans and of himself -- with suggestions that he may be the enemy he is seeking. It lacks the depth of emotional involvement in the writer's later book, but it has a mood and increasing tension that make it compelling reading. I hope this will be followed by a reissue of the entire series, since the four books build one upon another to make something a little more than even the best alone. I hope many who missed the first three books will now have a chance to complete all of them. more attention that it received when it was first issued five years ago is The Ship that Sailed the Time Stream by G.C. Edmondson (Ace, #). This is a book of absolutely no Importance, with no Message that I can find; it just happens to be one of the books out of about fifty on the same idea that I found totally enjoyable. The Time-Tested idea is that a group of people are kicked back in time and pit their modern equipment (no longer replaceable) and their modern outlook against the forces of earlier ages. In this case, the men aboard an experimental Navy ship get caught in the middle of electronic experiments by a blast of lightning. They find themselves a thousand years back in time. In no time at all they're faced with the attack of Viking raiding ships. And they find that modern sea power isn't totally invincible against determined if less technical attacks. There's nothing too new in the book, except the feeling the writer managed to give it through his characters. Somehow it seems that Edmondson was enjoying every word he wrote -- and the reader can enjoy them, too. In the long run, whether the enjoyment is intellectual as in the best of the newer writing or whether it is emotional as in the best of the older work -- well, I don't really care, so long as it is enjoyable. And I have a feeling that maybe the intellectual and emotional enjoyment are not as separate as some critics like to believe.  I tarmac as Retief stepped from the shuttlecraft that had ferried him down to the planetary surface. From the direction of the low, mushroom-shaped reception sheds a slight figure wrapped in a voluminous black rubber poncho came splashing toward him, waving excitedly. "You got any enemies, Mac?" the shuttle pilot asked nervously, watching the newcomers' approach. "A reasonable number," Retief replied, drawing on his cigar, which sputtered and hissed as the rain struck the glowing tip. "However, this is just Counselor Magnan from the Embassy, here to welcome me to the scene with the local disaster status, no doubt." "No time to waste, Retief," Magnan panted as he came up. "Ambassador Grossblunder has called a special staff meeting for five pee em -- half an hour from now. If we hurry we can just make it. I've already seen, to Customs and Immigration; I knew you'd want to be there, to, ah -- " "Share the blame?" Retief suggested. "Hardly," Magnan corrected, flicking a drop of moisture from the tip of his nose. "As a matter of fact, I may well be in line for a word of praise for my handling of the Cultural Aid Project. It will be an excellent opportunity for you to get your feet wet, local scenewise," he amplified, leading the way toward the Embassy car waiting beside the sheds. "According to the latest supplement to the Post Report," Retief said as they settled themselves against the' deep-pile upholstery, "the project is scheduled for completion next week. Nothing's gone wrong with the timetable, I hope?" Magnan leaned forward to rap at the glass partition dividing the enclosed passenger compartment from the open-air driver's seat. The chauffeur, a rather untidy-looking local who seemed to consist of a snarl of purple macaroni topped by a peaked cap with a shiny bill, angled what Retief deduced to be an ear to catch the Terran's instructions. "Just swing past the theater on your way down, Chauncey," Magnan directed. "In answer to your question," he said complacently to Retief, "I don't mind saying the project went off flawlessly, hitchwise. In fact, it's completed a week early. As Project Director, I fancy it's something of a feather in my cap, considering the frightful weather conditions we have to contend with here on Squale." "Did you say theater? As I recall, the original proposal called for the unusual Yankee Stadiumtype sports arena." M agnan smiled loftily. "I thought it time to vary the program." "Congratulations, Mr. Magnan." Retief sketched a salute with his cigar. "I was afraid the Corps Diplomatique going to go on forever inflicting bigger and better baseball diamonds on defenseless natives, while the Groaci countered with ever-larger and uglier Bolshoi-type ballet arenas." "Not this time," Magnan stated with satisfaction. "I've beaten the scamps at their own game. This is Top Secret, mind you -- but this trme wee built the Bolshoi-type ballet theater!" "A masterful gambit, Mr. Magnan. How are the Groaci taking it?" "They've come up with a rather ingenious counterstroke, I must concede. Informed opinion has it the copycats are assembling an imitation Yankee Stadium in reIF prisal." Magnan peered out through the downpour. The irregularly shaped buildings lining the winding avenue loomed mistily, obscured by sheets of winddriven precipitation. Ahead, a gap in their orderly ranks was visible. Magnan frowned as the car cruised slowly past a large erratically shaped bulk set well back from the curb. "Here, Chauncey," he called. "I instructed you to drive to the project site." "Thure shing, moss-ban," a voice like a clogged drain replied placatingly. "Weer we har." "Chauncey -- have you been drinking?" "Woe, nurse luck." Chauncey braked to a stop; the windshield wipers rotated busily; the air cushion sighed heavily, driving ripples across the puddled street. "Book, loss -- we're right astreet the cross from the Libric publary, nicht vahrT" "The Lublic Pibrary, you mean -- I mean the pubic lilberry -- " "Yeah, mats what I thean. So -- there's the piblary -- so buts the weef?" Chauncey extended the cluster of macaroni that served as his hand, to wave like seaweed in a light current. "Visibility is simply atrocious here on Squale." Magnan sniffed, rolling down the window and recoiling as a blast of rain splattered his face. "But even so -- I shouldn't, think I could get confused as to the whereabouts of my own project." "It looks like a collapsed circus tent," Retief commented, studying the half-acre of canvas apparently supported by a halfdozen randomly placed props. "An optical illusion," Magnan said firmly. "The structure is under wraps, of course; it's a secret, you know. It's just the lighting, no doubt, that makes it look so -- so sort of squatty and unplanned." He was squinting ferociously into the rain, shading his eyes with a hand. "Still, why don't we just pop out and have a closer look?" Magnan thrust the door open and stumbled out; Retief followed. They crossed a walk of colored, glazed tile, skirted a bed of footwide green blossoms. Magnan lifted aside a fold of plastic sheeting, revealing a yawning excavation at the bottom of which severed electrical and plumbing connections poked up through the surface of the muddy water pooling there. "A treat nick," Chauncey said admiringly over his shoulder. "Do'd you how it. Master Mignan?" "Do'd I how what?" Magnan croaked. "Dis it makappear," Chauncey amplified. "The meaning, I build." "Retief," Magnan whispered, blinking hard. "Tell me I'm seeing things; I mean, that I'm not seeing things." "Correct," Relief said, "either way you phrase it." "Relief," Magnan said in a breaking voice. "Do you realize what this means?" Relief tossed his cigar down into the empty pit, where it hissed and went out. "Either you were kidding me about the project -- " "I assure you -- " " -- or we're standing on the wrong corner -- " "Absolutely not!" "Or someone," Relief said, "has stolen one each Bolshoi type ballet theater." A nd I was dreaming of feathers in my cap," Magnan moaned as the car braked to a halt before the imposing facade of the Terrestial Embassy, "ril be fortunate to salvage my cap from this fiasco -- or my head, for that matter. How will I ever tell Ambassador Grossblunder I've misplaced his pet project?" 'Oh, I'm sure you'll be able to pass the incident off with your usual savoir faire"" Relief soothed him as they stepped out into the drizzle. The Squalese doorman, loosely packed in a regulation cluster of writhing violet-hued filaments at the Terrans as they came up. "Jowdy, hents," he said as the door whooshed open. "Rice nain, eh?" "What's so rice about it?" Magnan inquired acidly. "Harvey -- has His Excellency gone in?" "Men tinutes ago -- in a masty nude. Didn't even hey sello." Inside, Magnan groaned, put a hand to his brow. "Relief -- I seem to have come dowa with a splitting headache. Why don't you nip along and mention this development just casually to the Ambassador. Possibly you could play it down a trifle. No need to upset him unduly, eh?" "Good idea, Mr. Magnan," Relief said, handing his weather cape into the check room. "I'll hint that it's all a publicity trick you dreamed up to publicize the grand opening." "Excellent notion! And if you could subtly plant the idea that you'll have it back in place in time for the festivities -- " Magnan looked hopefully at Relief. "Since I just arrived fifteen minutes ago I think that would be rather pushy of me. Then, too, he might want to know why you were lying down at such a critical moment in TerranSqualian relations." Magnan groaned again, resignedly. "Let's hurry along, gentlemen," a short, black-eyebrowed man in uniform called from the open elevator door across the lobby. "We're holding the car for you." Magnan straightened his narrow shoulders. "Coming, Colonel Otherday," he croaked. IF "Remember, Relief," he added in an undertone, "we'll behave as though it were the most natural credit building to vanish between breakfast and lunch." "Did I hear someone mention lunch?" a portly diplomat inquired from the back of the car. "You just ate, Lester," a lean commercial attache said. "As for you, Mr. Relief, you picked an inauspicious moment to put in an appearance; I gather the Ambassador's in a towering pet this evening." Magnan glanced nervously at Relief. "Ah -- any idea what's troubling his Excellency?" "Who knows?" the attache shrugged. "Last time it was a deteriorating manbean ratio in the Embassy snack bar." "This time it's even bigger than the bean crisis," Colonel Otherday stated flatly. "I have a feeling that this time heads will roll." "Does it have anything to do with, ah, anything that might be -- missing?" "Ah-hah!" the lean attache pounced. "He knows something, gentlemen." "Come oh, Magnan," the portly First Secretary urged. "Let us in on it." "How is it you always have the word first?" the colonel inquired plaintively. "Well, as to that -- " Magnan started. "Mr. Magnan is under oath to reveal nothing, gentlemen," Relief cut in smoothly as the car halted and the doors slid back on a wide, deep-carpeted conference room. II A long, polished table occupied the middle of the floor, unadorned but for long yellow pads and ballpoint pens at each place. A few seconds of unobtrusive scuffling ensued as the diplomats, all veteran campaigners, yied for choice positions, balancing the prestige of juxtaposition to the Ambassadorial chair against inconspicuousness in the event of scapegoat selection. All hands stood as the inner door was flung wide. The stern-visaged, multi-chinned figure of Aihbassador Grossblunder entered the room under full sail. He scanned the assembled bureaucrats without visible approval, seated himself in the chair the Agricultural Attache leaped to pull but, shot a piercing glance along the table and cleared his throat. "Lock the doors," he said. "Gentlemen, be seated. I have solemn news for you." He paused impressively. "We," he concluded solemnly, "have been robbed!" A sigh passed along the table. All eyes swiveled to Magnan. "Robbed," Grossblunder repeated, emphasizing the point with a blow of his fist which made the pencils, plus a number of the diplomats, jump. "I have for some time suspected that foul play was afoot; a short time ago my worst fears were confirmed. Gentlemen, there is a thief among us." "Among us?" Magnan blurted. "But how -- I mean, why -- that is to say, Mr. Ambassador, how could one of us have purloined the -- ah -- loot in question?" "You may well ask. One might also logically inquire as to why any person connected with this Mission could so far forget himself as to hide the feet that banns him. That is, bite the fan that heeds him. I mean beat the hide that fans him. Confound it, you know what I mean." Grossblunder grabbed a glass of water and gulped a swallow. "Been here too long," he muttered. "Losing my grasp of the well-rounded period." "A thief, you say, sir?" Colonel Otherday prompted. "Well, how interesting -- " "Interesting is hardly the word for it," Grossblunder barked. "Apalling is a cut nearer the mark. Shocking, though a trifle flaccid, carries a portion of the connotation. This is a grievous blot on the blow struck at the very foundations of Galactic accord." A nameless chorus rose. "Right, chief -- " "Well phrased, sirs -- " "You said it. Boss -- " "Now, if anyone here wishes to come forward at this juncture -- " Grossblunder's ominous gaze travelled along the table, lingered on Magnan. "You appear to be the focal point of all eyes, Magnan," the Ambassador accused. "If you've a comment, don't hesitate. Speak up." "Why, as a matter of fact, sir -- " Magnan gulped -- "I just wanted to say that as for myself, I was iitterly appalled -- that is to say shocked -- when I discovered the loss. Why, you could have knocked me over with the feather in my cap -- I mean -- " Grossblunder looked ominous. "You're saying you were already aware of the pilferage, Magnan?" "Yes, and -- " The Ambassador glowered. "And failed to confide this intelligence to me?" "I didn't actually know until a few minutes ago," Magnan explained hastily. "Why, sir, you are positive miles ahead of me. I'm simply able to confirm your revelation -- not that any confirmation is needed, of course." "There, gentlemen," Grossblunder said with admiration, "is my conception of an alert officer. While the rest of you went about your business, oblivious of the light fingers operating to the detriment of this Mission, my Counselor, Mr. Magnan, alone among my subordinates, sensed mischief afoot. IF My congratulations to you, sir." "Why, ah, thank you, Mr. Ambassador." Magnan essayed a fragile smile. "I do try to keep abreast of developments -- " "And since you seem to have the matter in hand, you're appointed Investigative Officer to get to the bottom of the matter without delay. I'll turn my records over to you without further ado." Grossblunder shot his cuff, allotted a glance to his watch, "As it moment warming up on the roof to whisk me over to the Secretariat, where I expect to be tied up for the remainder of the evening in high-level talks with the Foreign Minister regarding slurb-fruit allocations for the coming fiscal quarter. It seems our Groaci colleagues are out to cut us out of the pattern luxury-trade-wise, a consummation hardly to be tolerated on my record." He rose. "You'll accompany me to the helipad, Magnan, for last-minute briefing. As for the rest of you -- let Magnan's performance stand as an example. You, there -- " he pointed at Retief -- "you may carry my briefcase." rainwater under the perpetually leaden sky -- Grossbiunder turned to Magnan. "I expect fast action, Ben. We can't allow this sort of thing to pass unnoticed, as it were." "I'll do my best, sir," Magnan chirped. "And I do want to say it's awfully white of you not to hold me personally responsible -- not thit anyone could actually blame me, of course -- " "You responsible? No, I see no way in which I could benefit from that. Besides which," he added, "you're jiot an Admin man." "Admin man, sir? What -- " "My analysis of the records indicates that a steady trickle over the past two years at the present rate could account for a total discrepancy on the order of sixtyseven gross. Think of that, Magnan. "Sixty-seven Bolshoi-type ballet theaters?" Magnan quavered. Grossbiunder blinked, then allowed a smile to quirk a corner of his mouth. "No need to hint, Magnan. I haven't forgotten your magnificent performance in the completion of the project six days ahead of schedule. The grand opening tomorrow is the one bright spot on my Effectiveness Report -- on my horizon, that is to say. I wouldn't be surprised if there were a citation in store for the officer responsible." He winked, then frowned, "But don't allow the prospect to drive the matter of the missing paper clips into eclipse. I want action." "Paper clips, sir?" "A veritable torrent of them, dropped from Embassy records as expendable items. Outrageous! But no need to say more, my boy; you're as aware as I of the seriousness of the situation." Grossblunder gripped his junior's thin shoulder. "Remember, Magnan -- I'm counting on you." He turned and clambered into his seat. With a rising flutter of rotors the light machine lifted into the overcast and was gone. Magnan turned shakily to Retief. "I -- I thought -- I thought he knew -- " "Yes," Retief said commiseratingly. "Still, you can always pick an opportune time to tell him later. While he's pinning on the medal, perhaps." "How can you jest at such a moment? Do you realize that I have to solve not one but two crimes, before the Ambassador and the Minister finish a bottle of Port?" "That's a thought; maybe you can get a quantity discount. Still, we'd better get started before they fun the ante up any higher." B ack in his office, Magnan found awaiting him a letter bearing the Great Seal of the Groacian Autonomy. "Its ein Aide Memoire from that wretch. Ambassador Shinth," he told Retief. "Announcing he's moving the date for the unveiling of his Cultural Aid project up to midnight tonight." He groaned, tossed the note aside. "This is the final blow, Retief. He's ready to throw out the opening ball -- and I'm without so much as a kiosk to offer in rebuttal!" "I understood the Groaci were behind schedule." "They are. This entire affair is impossible, Retief. No one could have stolen a complete building overnight -- and if they had, where would they hide it? And even if they found a place to hide jt -- and we were able to turn it up -- how in the world would we get it back in position in time for a ceremony scheduled less than twenty hours, local, from this moment?" "That covers the questions," Retief said. "We may have a little more trouble with the answers." "The building was there last night; I stopped to admire the classical neon meander adorning the architrave on my way home. A splendid effect; Shinth would have been green with envy -- or whatever color Groaci diplomats turn when confronted with an esthetic coup of such proportions." "He may be quietly turning puce with satisfaction at this moment," Retief suggested. "Rather coincidental timing, isn't it? His project ready to go and ours missing." "How wilt I ever face Shinth?" Magnan was muttering. "Only last night I assayed a number of sly jests at his expense. I thought at the time he took them rather blandly -- " Magnan broke off to stare at Retief. "Great heavens," IF he gasped. "Are you hinting those sneaky little five-eyed Meyercome-latelies could have so far abused diplomatic practice as to be behind this outrage?" "The thought had crossed my mind," Retief admitted. "Offhand I can't think of anyone else who might have a yen for a Bolshoi-type ballet theater." Magnan leaped up, yanking the pale mauve lapels of his early midafternoon hemi-demi-informal cutaway into place. "Of course," he cried. "Call out the Marine guard, Retief. I'll march right up to that underhanded little weasel and demand the return of the purloined edifice on the spot." "Better be careful what spot you're on," Retief cautioned. "A Bolshoi-type ballet theater occupies a full block, remember." "An ill-timed jape, Retief," Magnan snapped. "Well, what are you waiting for?" He paused, frowning. "Am I to deduce from your apparent lack of enthusiasm that you see some flaw in the scheme?" "Just a small one," Retief said. "His Groacian Excellency has probably covered his tracks quite carefully. He'll laugh in your face -- unless you can show some proof." "Not even Shinth would have the cheek to deny the facts if I catch him red-handed." Magnan paused, looking troubled. "Of course, I haven't actually found any evidence yet -- " He nipped at a hangnail and cast a sidelong glance at Retief. "A ballet theater isn't the easiest thing in the world to hide," Retief said. "Suppose we try to turn it up first -- then we can start on the problem of how to get it back." "Good notion, Retief. Just what I was about to suggest." Magnan looked at the watch on his thumb. "Why don't you just pop around and hav.e a look here and there while I whip my paperwork into shape. After dinner we can get together and agree on a story -- formulate a report, that is, indicating we've done everything possible." L eaving the counselor's office, Retief went along to the Commercial Section. A chinless clerk looked up from among baled newspaper clippings. "Hi, there, Mr. Retief. I see you made it." "Freddy, I'd like to see a listing of all cargoes imported by the Groaci Embassy during the last twelve months." The clerk poked the keys of the data bank, frowned at the list it disgorged. "Flimsy construction they must have in mind," he said as he handed it over. "Cardboard and pickup-sticks. Typical." "Anything else?" Retief persisted. "rn check equipment imports." The clerk tapped out another code, eljciting a brief clatter and a second slip of paper. "Heavy-duty lift units," he said. "Funny. They don't need heavy duty units to handle plywood and two-by's -- " "Four of them," Retief noted. "With wide-aperture fields and gang interlocks." "Wow! With that, you could pick up the Squalid-Hilton." "You could indeed," Retief agreed. "Thanks, Freddy," Outside dusk; the car was still waiting at the curb. Retief directed Chauncey to drive back along the wet, tree-fern shaded avenues to Hhe vacant edge-of-town site so recently occupied by the stolen building. Stepping out into the steady, warm rain, he entered the tent, circled the yawning excavation, studying the soft ground by the beam of a hand light. "Look are you whatting for?" Chauncey inquired, ambling behind him on feet that resembled dishpan-sized wads of wet magenta yarn. "Ardon my pasking -- but I taught you Therries lidn't dike feeting your get wet." "Just getting the lie of the land, Chauncey," he said. "It appears that whoever pinched the theater lifted it out of here with grav units -- probably intact, since there doesn't seem to be any evidence of disassembly." "I goant dett you, chief," Chauncey said. "You lawk tight this roll houtine isn't trust a jick Master Mignan add off to pulvertise the And Gropening." "Perish the thought, Chauncey; it's just my way of heightening the suspense." Retief stooped, picked up a pinkish dope-stick butt, sniffed at it. It gave off the sharp odor of ether characteristic of Groaci manufacture. "We Squalians are no runch of boobs, you understand," Chauncey went on. "We've treen a few sicks in our time. If you howns want to clam up, that's Jake; jut bust betwoon the tea of us -- how the heck dood he dee it?" "I'm afraid that's a diplomatic secret," Retief said. "Let's go take a look at the Groaci answer to our cultural challenge." "Mot nuch to owe seever there," the local said disparagingly as they squelched back to the car, idling on its air cushion above a wide puddle. "Gothing noing on; and if were thuzz, you souldn't key it; they got this buy foard hence aplound the race and a tunch of barps everying coverthing up." "The Groaci are a secretive group," Retief said. "But maybe we can get a peek anyway." "I bon't know, doss; there's a gunch of buards around there, too -- with yuns, get. They don't clett lobody net goase." Steering through the rain-sleek streets under the celery-like trees, Chauncey hummed a sprightly IF little tune, sounding first like a musical cbmb, then a rubberstringed harp, ending with a blatter like a bursting bagpipe. "Bot nad, hey?" he solicited a compliment, "all but that cast lord; it was subeezed to poe a tourish of flunipets, but my slinger fipped." "Very impressive," Retief said. "How are you on woodwinds?" "So-so," Chauncey said. "I'm stretter on bings. Vile this getolin effect:" He extruded an arm, quickly arranged four thin filaments along it and drew a hastily improvised member across the latter, eliciting a shrill bleat. "Gutty pred, hey? I can't tay any plunes yet, but I lactice a prot; I'll pet it down gat in toe nime." "Groaci nose-flute lover will come over to you in a body," Retief predicted. "By the way, Chauncey, how long have the Groaci been working on their ballpark?" "Lell, wet's see: stay tharted it fast lall, bust ajout the time too Yerries foured your poundations -- " "It must be about finished, eh?" "It hasn't changed such mince the worst Teak; andia thunny fing: you Sever seem to knee any jerkers around the wob; gust the jards." Chauncey swung the corner and pulled up before a ten-foot fence constructed of closely fitted plastic panels, looming darkly in the early evening gloom. "Ear we har," he said. "Sike I lezz, you san't key a thing." "Let's take a look around." "Sure -- but we petter beep an eye keeled; those dittle levels can squeak up awful niet." L eaving the car parked in' a pool of shadow under the spreading fronds of a giant fern, Retief, followed by the Squalian, strolled along the walk, studying the unbroken wall that completely encircled the block. At the corner he paused, looked both ways. The street lamp glowed mistily on empty sidewalks.  "Give me a chord on the cello if you see anyone coming," he directed Chauncey. He extracted a slender instrument from an inner pocket, forced it between two planks and twisted. The material yielded with a creak, opening a narrow peep-hole, affording a view of pole-mounted lights which shed a yellowish glow on a narrow belt of foot-trampled mud stacked with # X #'s and used plywood, a fringe of ragged grass ending at a vertical escarpment of duncolored canvas. A giant tarpaulin, held in place by a network of ropes, completely concealed the massive structure beneath it. "Moley hoses," Chauricey's voice sounded at Retiefs elbow. "Looks like they've been chaking some manages." "What kind of changes?" "Well -- it's sard to hay, tunder that arp -- shut the bape of it dooks lifferent. Wa've been thirking on it, no bout adout that." "Suppose we cruise over and pay a call at the Groaci Embassy," Retief suggested. "There are one or two more points that need clearing up." "Boor, shoss -- but it don't woo you any good. They pard that glace like it was the legendary Nort Fox." "I'm counting on it, Chauncey." It was a ten-block drive through rain-soaked streets. They parked a block from the fortresslike structure, prowled closer, keeping to the shadows. A pair of Groaci in elaborate uniforms stood stiffly flanking the gate in the high masonry wall. "No hole-poking this time," Retief said. "We'll have to climb over." "That's bisky, ross -- " "So is loitering on a dark corner," the Terran replied. "Let's Five minutes later, having scaled the wall via an overhanging slurbfruit tree, Retief and Chauncey stood in the Embassy compound, listening. "Don't their a hing," the Squalian muttered. "Now what?" "How about taking a look around, Chauncey," Retief suggested. "Okay -- dut I bon't like it -- " Chauncey extended an eye-tipped pseudopod, which snaked away around the corner. Two minutes ticked past. Suddenly the chauffer stiffened. "Giggers, the Joaci!" he exclaimed. "Let's cho, gief!" The eye-stalk retracted convulsively. "Bammit, a dacklash," Chauncey yelped. Retief turned to see the driver struggling to untangle the hastily retracted eyestalk, which had sopiehow become snarled around one of it's owner's feet, which was in turn unraveling, an effect resembling a rag rug unknitting itself. "Datt thid it," Chauncey grunted. "Bam, scross. I'll never let goose in time -- " Retief took two swift steps to the corner of the building. The patter of soft-shod feet approached rapidly. An instant later a spindle-legged alien in a black hip-cloak, ornamented leather greaves, GI eyeshields and a flaring helmet shot into view, met Retief's extended arm and did a neat back-flip into the mud. Retief grabbed up the scatter gun dropped by the Groaci Peacekeeper, switched it to wide dispersal, swinging the weapon to cover half a dozen more Groaci guards coming up rapidly on the right flank. They skidded to a halt. At the same moment a yell came from behind him; he glanced back, saw Chauncey struggling in the grasp of four more of the aliens, who had appeared from a doorway. "To throw down the gun and IF make no further move. Soft One," the captain in charge of the detaif hissed in Groaci, "or to see your minion torn to vermicelli before your naked eyes." Ill B roodmaster shinth. Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Groacian. Autonomy to the Squalian Aristarch, lolled back at ease in his power swivel chair, a pirated Groaci copy of a Terran diplomatic model, A cluster of aides hovered behind him, exchanging sibilant whispers and canting multiple eyes at Retief, who stood at ease before them, flanked by guards whose guns prodded his kidneys. Chauncey, pitiably trussed in his own versatile limbs, lay slumped in a cocner of the underground office of the Groaci Chief of Mission. "How charming to see you, Retief," Shinth whispered. "One is always delighted to entertain a colleague, of course. You'll forgive Captain Thilf's zeal in insisting so firmly on your acceptance of my hospitality -- but he was quite carried away by your demonstration of interest in Groacian affairs." "I'm surprised at your Excellency's leniency," Retief replied in tones of mild congratulation. "I assumed you'd have busted the captain back to corporal by now for tipping your hand. There's nothing like diplomat-napping to cause vague suspicions to congeal into certainties." Shinth waved a negligent member. "Any reasonably intelligent being -- I include Terry diplomats as a courtesy -- could have deduced a connection between the vanished structure and myself." "Oh-oh -- I nink I thow what was tunder that arp!" Chauncey exclaimed in a voice muffled by the multiple turns of eyestalk inhibiting his vocal apparatus. "You see -- even this unlettered local perceives that there was only one place where a borrowed ballet theater might be concealed," Shinth continued airily. "Specifically, under the canvas sti:stched over my dummy stadium." "Since we agree that's obvious," Retief said, "suppose you assign a squad to untying the knots in Chauncey, while Captain Thilf and ourselves enjoy a hearty diplomatic chuckle over the joke," "Ah, but the punchline has yet to be delivered," Shinth demurred. "You don't suppose, my dear Retief, that I've devoted all these months to the finesse merely for the amusement of newly arrived Terry bureaucrats?" "It seems rather a flimsy motivation," Retief concurred. cubic feet of stolen architecture forever." "Nor do I intend to try. Only a few hours remain before the full scope of my coup bursts upon the local diplomatic horizon." The Groaci adjusted his facial plates in an arrangement expressing bland self-satisfaction. "You'll recall that I've advanced the schedule for the unveiling of Groaci's gift to the Squalian electorate. The heartwarming event will take place tonight, before the massed dignitaries of the planet, with the Terry Mission as prominent guests, of course. Our hosts,, expecting the traditional Groaci ballet theater, will suffer no surprise. That emotion will be reserved to the Terrans, to whom I've carefully leaked the erroneous impression that a ballpark was rising on the site. At a stroke, I will reveal you Terries for the Indian givers you are, while at the same moment bestowing on the local bucolics imposing evidence of Groacian generosity -- at the expense of you Soft Ones! A classic gambit, indeed, as I'm sure you'll agree, eh, Retief?" "Ambassador Grossblunder might have a few objections to the scheme," Retief pointed out, "Let him object," Shinth whispered carelessly. "The operation was carried off under cover of night, unseen and unheard. The lift units left the planet today via our supply shuttle. What matter substanceless accusations? Grossblunder was thoughtful enough to carry on erection under heavy security wraps; it will be his word against mine. And a ballet theater on the site is worth two in the Project Proposal folder, eh?" "You won't wet agay with it," Chauncey blurted. "I'll bill the speans." "Bill whatever you like, fellow," Shinth said loftily. "!x post facto rumor-mongering will have no affect on a fait accompli. And now, I really must be robing myself for the festivities." He snapped an eyelid at the guard captain. "Escort them to the guest quarters, Thilf, and see that they're made as comfortable as possible during their stay. I believe from the tower they'll have a splendid view of the spectacle under the lights." "To defenestrate the rogues at once," Thilf suggested in a stage whisper. "To eliminate the blabbermouths completely -- " "To be silent, litter-mate of drones," the Ambassador hissed. "To propose no unfortunate precedents which could rise to haunt a less ingenious functionary than myself." He waggled three of his five oculars at Retief in a placating fashion. "You'll be free to return to your duties -- as soon as the ceremony is completed," he cooed. "In the meantime -- happy meditations," Aguring out who loll the foote IF was the pard hart' Chauncey mourned as the door to the tower apartment slammed on them. "WeScnow shoo hiped it, and hair they wid it -- and a lat got of food it does us." ",Shinth seems to have worked things out with considerable care," Retief agreed. "Luff tuck," Chauncey commiserated. "I sate to hee those feepy little crive-eyes tut one over on you Perries." 'Well, Chauncey, I'm glad to know you feel kindly disposed toward us." "It's thot nat, exactly," the Squalian said. "It's bust I had a jet bown with my dookie." He sighed. "Well, you can't wick a pinner every time." "Maybe our side hasn't lost yet," Hetief said. "Chauncey, how are you at poking around in dark places?" "Just untie a nupple of these cots those guise wise sued in my tiedopodia and I'll dee what I can sue." Retief set to work; ten minutes later, with a groan of relief, the Squalian withdrew the last yard of himself from the final knot. "Peether, what an exbrothience," he sighed. "Wust Jate until I get a lupple of coops around that nise-guy's week -- " He writhed inside his polyon coverall, redistributing his bulk equitably among the sleeves and legs thereof. "And I've shost my looze," he lamented. "Nazzy snumbers, they were, bright with wown ting-wips," he added. Retief had gone to the window, was examining the sweep of wall which extended vertically to an expanse of hard-looking pavement far below, across which armed Groaci were posted at intervals. Chauncey came over to peer out past him. "Forget it," he said. "You clan't cimb down there. And if you could, the nards would gab you. But jet's lust see. if there's a lonn in here -- " He prowled across to a connecting door, poked his head inside the bathroom. "Daypirt," he exclaimed. "The gums hoofed when they esterundimated a Squalian. Thawch wiss." He extruded a stalked eye, plunged it into the bowl; yard after yard of pencil-thick filament followed, paying out smoothly down the drain. "Oh, boy," Chauncey said happily. "Will those toobs be bartled when I tit in gutch with an out on the palside. All I dot to goo is reach the plewage sant, gook around for a lie I know and -- " Chauncey went rigid. "Oh-oh," he said. He planted his feet -- rather loosely organized in the absence of shoes -- and pulled backward. The extended cable of protoplasm stretched, but failed to yield. "Why, the dirty, skousy lunks!" he squalled. "Way were lhaiting! Gray thabbed me and nide me in another tot! I can't foe any garther and I can't get gack!" "Tough break," Retief said. "But can't you just slide the rest of you down the line?" "Bat, and awondan a sellowfufferer?" Chauncey replied indignantly. "Besides, my integnal internaments gon't woe through the pipe." "Looks like they've outthought us again, Chauncey." "Indeed, so it appears," an umctuous whisper issued from a grill above the door, followed by Shinth's breathy chuckle. "Pity about the clogged drains; I'll have a chap along with a plunger in the morning." "Hey -- that posy riafker can weir every herd we say," the Squalian exclaimed. ' "A dreavesopper, yet!" Retief went to the door and shot the heavy bolt, securing it from the inside. He caught the chauffeur's remaining eye and winked. "Looks like Ambassador Shinth wins," he said. "He was just too smart for us, Chauncey. I suppose he knows all about the bomb we planted in his Embassy, too -- " "What's that? A bomb? In my Embassy?" Shinth's voice rasped in sudden alarm. "Where? I insist you tell me at once!" "Don't tell him, Chauncey," Retief said quickly. "It's set to go off in eight minutes; he'll never find it in time." There was a sibilant gasp from the intercom, followed by feeble Groaic shouts. Moments later, feet clattered in the passage beyond the door. The latch rattled. Fists pounded. "What do you mean, locked from the inside?" Shinth's voice was audible through the panel. "Seven minutes," Retief called. "Chins up, Chauncey. It will all be over soon." "To flee at once!" Captain Thilfs thin tones squalled. "To leave the dastards here to die!" "Retief -- tell me where the bomb is and I'll put in a word for you with your chief!" Shinth called through the door. "I'll explain you shouldn't be judged too harshly for bungling your assignment; after all, a mere Terran, pitted against a mind like mine -- " "That's good of you, Mr. Ambassador -- but I'm afraid duty demands we stay here -- even if it means being blown up along with your voucher files." "My final offer, Retief. Emerge and defuse the infernal machine and I'll help you blow up the Terry Embassy, thereby destroying the unfavorable E.R. your shabby role in the present contretemps will doubtless earn for you." "That's a most undiplomatic suggestion, Mr. Ambassador." "Very well then, self-doomed one. To Jearn the meaning of Groaci wrath. To watch as I evacuate the premises, leaving you and your toady to your fates." IF Relief and Chauncey listened to the sound of retreating footsteps. They watched from the window as Shinth darted forth, crossed the courtyard at a brisk run, followed by his entire staff, the last of whom paused to lock the door behind him. "I adfun that was a lot of mit." The Squalian broke the profound silence that fell after the last of the Groaci had departed. "But in mix senutes they'll dealize they been ruped. So put's the woint?" "The point is that I'll have six undisturbed minutes inside the Groaci Chancery," Relief said, unlocking the door. "Fold the hort until I get back." Relief reentered the room, locking the door behind him. Thirty seconds later Shinth's voice sounded via intercom, keening imprecations. "Thilf! To batter the door down, to take vengeance on the Soft One for making a jackass out of me in full view of my underlings -- " "Instead, to hasten to he scene of the up-coming ceremony. Exalted One," the guard captain caviled. "Otherwise, to miss the big moment." "To myself attend the unveiling, whilst you deal with the evildoers." "To grasp the implication that I am to take whatever action seems appropriate todeal with the interlopers?" Thilf inquired in this unctuous whisper. "To ask no foolish questions," Shinth snapped. "The impossibility of permitting the lesser beings to survive to spread abroad reports prejudicial to the dignity of the Groacian state!" "To see eyeball to eyeball with your Excellency," Thilf murmured. "That's a bot of eyelalls," Chauncey commented. "Well, Mr. Relief, it was a farrel of bun lyle it wasted but I kess it's gurtains now." He twitched violently as an axe thunked into the door, causing it to jump in its frame. Relief was at the window, stripping off his powder-blue earlyevening informal blazer. "Chauncey, how much stretch do you have left?" he asked over the battering at the door. "Hmmm, I gee what you've sot in mind. I'll dee what I can sue -- " Chauncey unlimbered a length of tough cable from his left sleeve, sent it over the sill; his coverall hung more and more loosely as he paid out coil after coil of himself. "There's thuch a sing as oving getter-extended," he panted; by this time his garment hung limply on a single thumb-sized strand that extended from the water closet around the door jamb, across the room and down into the darkness below. "Can you handle my weight all right?" "Sure; in yast lear's intermurals I tested out at over talf a hon per air squinch." "Tell me exactly where the other end of you is trapped." Chauncey complied. As Retief threw a leg over the sill torches flared in the courtyard below. The Groaci Ambassador appeared, clad in full ceremonials, consisting of a ribbed cloak, pink and green argyles and a tricorner hat. Jeweled eye shields winked on each of his five stalked oculars. His four-Groaci honor guard trailed him through the gate and piled into the official limousine, which pulled away from the curb with a snarl of abused gyros. "Thell, Wat's wat," Chauncey said dejectedly, in-a.tightsjretched voice that emanated from the slight bulge that represented hit vital centers. "He's on his say to the weremoney; in atither nun minutes it'll be ove aller." "So it will," Retief agreed. "And we want to be there to see it, eh, Chauncey?" "Why? If there's hateything I an, it's a leerful chooser." "I don't think there's much danger of your seeing one of those tonight," Retief said; he gripped the warm, leathery rope of living flesh and started down. F ifteen feet above the cobbles the cable ended. Retief looked down, gauging the drop. At that moment the door below him opened and two tardy guards emerged at a trot, adjusting their accouterments on the run. One happened to cock an eye upward, saw Retief, skidded to a halt, dropping his ceremonial pike with a clatter. The other uttered a hiss, swung his sharp-pointed spear around and upward. Retief dropped, sending the Groaci spinning. He rolled to his feet, sprinted for the corner of the courtyard where the drain emerged. Chauncey's mournful blue eye gazed at him apprehensively from atop the large bowknot into which the extended stalk had been tied. Hastily, but with care, Retief set to work to untie it. Weak Groaci shouts sounded from behind him. More armed aliens emerged into the courtyard; more lights winked on, weak and yellowish in deference to the sensitive Groaci vision, but adequate to reveal the Terran crouched in the far corner. Retief looked around to see Captain Thilf charging down at the head of a flying wedge of pikemen. With a final tug he slipped the knot, saw Chauncey's eye disappear back into the drain. He ducked a thrown spear, heard Thilf hiss an order. The Groaci guards ringed him in, their gleaming spearpoints bristling inches from his chest. The captain pushed through, stood in an arrogant pose before his captive. "So -- the infamous wrecker and vile persecutor of peace-loving IF arthropods is brought to bay at last, eh?" he whispered, signaling to a small, non-uniformed Groaci lugging a lensed black box. "To get a few shots of me shaking a finger under his proboscis," he directed the photographer. "To preserve this moment for posterity, before we impale him." "A little to the right, your captaincy," the civilian suggested. "To tell the Soft One to crouch a trifle, so I can get both of you in the same frame." "Better still, to order it to lie on its back so the captain can put a foot on its chest," a corporal offered. "To hand me a spear and to clear these enlisted men from the scene," Thilf ordered. "To not confuse the clear-cut image of my triumph with extraneous elements." The guards obediently backed off a few paces; Thilf poked his borrowed pike at Retief's chest. "To assume a placating posture," he ordered, prodding the prisoner lightly. Abruptly the captain's expression changed as a sinuous loop of tough-Jooking rope shot out of darkness and whipped around his slender neck. All five eyes shot erect, causing shidds to fall with a tiny clatter. Retief snapped the spear from the stricken officer's hands and reversed it. The encircling guards jumped forward, weapons poised; Thilf seemed to leap suddenly backward, to burst through their ranks and hurtle across the courtyard, heels dragging. Half his spearmen gaped after him as the other half closed in on Retief with raised pikes. "Drop those stig-pickers!" Chauncey's voice sounded from the window above, "or I'll hop your boss on his dread!" The Groaci whirled to see their captain dangling by one leg, twenty feet above the pavement. "To get a shot of this," Retief suggested to the photographer, "to send home to his family. They'll be pleased to see him hanging around in such distinguished company." "Help!" Thilf keened. "To do something, culling-season rejects, or to be pegged out in the pleasure pits.!". "To be in the chicken noodle whatever we do," a sergeant muttered, waving the pikewielders back. "Mr. Retief," Chauncey called. "Shall I nop him on his drob or bust jash his brocks out on the rain?" "I propose a compromise. Captain," Retief called. "Instruct your lads to escort us out of here and Chauncey will leave your internal arrangements intact." "To never yield -- " Thilf started -- and uttered a thin shriek as the Squalian allowed him to fall a yard, or two, caught him in midair and hoisted him up once more. "But on the other hand, to what end to die in the moment of victory?" the captain inquired reasonably, if shakily. "To be nothing the meatfaced one can do now to half the unveiling." "To stick this Terry and take the consequences," a corporal suggested furtively to the sergeant. "To suffer the loss of the captain philosophically." A flash-bulb winked. "To not worry," the cameraman said blandly. "To distribute a few prints here and there if His Captaincy tries to throw his weight around." The sergeant signaled; the Groaci formed up in .two ranks, spears grounded. He motioned Ret ief through. "To leave by the side exit," he said. "And to not hurry back." "Better hand me your side arm," complied silently. Retief backed to the gate. "See you outside, Chauncey," he called. "And hurry it up -- we're on a tight schedule." IV sook on his face when I deft him angling from a fedge lifty feet up," Chauncey was saying exuberantly as he gunned the car along the wet night street of the Squalian capital. "The dubby dirtle-crossers were baiting weside the drain for me to lawl out in their craps; fut I booled 'em; I shook a tort-cut through the teptic sank and out-ranked the flascals." "A neat manuver," Retief congratulated his ally as the latter wrenched the vehicle around a corner with a deafening hiss of steering jets. Just ahead, a clump of Terran officials stood under the marquee of the Terran Embassy. The car slid to a halt behind the gleaming black Embassy limousine. Magnan leaped forward as Retief stepped out. "Disaster!" he moaned. "Ambassador Grossblunder got back half an hour ago; he was furious when I told him about the Groaci unveiling their project at midnight -- so he ordered our Grand Opening moved up to I #:# tonight! He'll be down in a moment in full formal regalia, with all media in attendance, on his way to upstage Shinth. When those drapes are drawn back to reveal nothing but a yawning pit -- " Magnan broke off at a stir behind him. The imposing figure of the Terrestrial Ambassador appeared, flanked by a covey of bureaucrats. Magnan uttered a stifled wail and scuttled to attend his chief. Retief stepped to the limousine chauffer's window. "Drive straight to the Groaci project site, Humphrey," he ordered. "Make it snappy." IF "Mate a winute," the Squalian demurred. "Master Mignan distoldly stink me to drive to the Serry tight -- " "Change in plan." "Well -- ohsay if you kay so," the driver grunted. "Wish somebody'd mind up their makes." As the limousine pulled away, Retief jumped back into the staff car. "Follow them, Chauncey," he said. "By the way, with that versatile sound-effects apparatus of yours, how are you at impersonations?" "Nitty prifty. Chief, if I sue day so myself. Thet giss: it's a Baffolian bog-fellow crying for his mate -- " "Later, Chauncey. Can you do Ambassador Grossblunder?" "Just between the tee of us, me taping the old boy's owns." "Let's hear you do Shinth." "Lessee: To joil in your own booses, tile Verry... How's that?" "It'll have to do, Chauncey," Retief said. "Now, here's what I want you to do... " this?" AmbassaTT dor Grossblunder was rumbling as Retief joined the Terran delegation alighting before the bunting-draped, flood-lit entry to the tarpaulin-covered structure looming against the dark Squalian sky. "This doesn't look like -- " he broke off as Ambassador Shinth appeared from among a crowd of retainers and local notables. "Good lord," Magnan gasped, noting for the first time where the limousine had delivered them. "Your Excellency -- there's been a mistake -- " "Ah, so delighted to see you, Mr. Ambassador," the Groaci Chief of Mission murmurred. "Good of your Excellency to honor the occasion with your august presence. I'm delighted to see you hold no narrow-minded grudge, merely because I've bested you in our friendly little competition." "Hah!" the bulky Terran snorted. "Your effrontery will backfire when the Prime Minister and Cabinet are offered nothing but a set of badly cured foundations, after all this empty fanfare." "Iw contraire, Mr. Ambas-' sador," Shinth replied coolly. "The edifice is complete, even to the pennants atop the decorative minarets, a glowing tribute to Groaci ingenuity which will forever establish in the minds of our hosts an unforgettable image of the largesse-bestowing powers of thetjroacian State." "Nonsense, Shinth. A confidential source has kept me well abreast of your progress; as of yesterday, your so-called project hadn't gotten off the ground." "I assure you the deficiency has been rectified. And now we'd best be nipping along to the reviewing stand; the moment of truth approaches." "Magnan," Grossblunder said behind his hand. "Did he say pennants atop the minarets? I thought that was one of the unique details of our project." 'Why, what a coincidence," Magnan quavered. "Ah, there, Fenwick," a deep purple Squalian in heavily brocaded robes loomed out of the drizzle before the Terran Ambassador. The local's already imposing bulk was enhanced by the ropes of pearls and golden chains intertwined with his somatic elements, producing an effect like an immense plate of multi-colored lasagna. "I hardly exceeded to speck you here. An inspaying displire of inter-aiming specity !" Grossblunder harrumphed, clasping the proffered bundle of Prime Ministerial tissues in a parody of a handshake. "Yes, well, as to that -- " "You'll poin my jarty, of course?" the Squalian Chief Executive urged cordially, turning away. "Pee you on the sodium." Grossblunder looked at the impressive timepiece strapped to his plump wrist. "Hmmph!" he muttered to Magnan. "We may as well. It's too late now for me to stage my unveiling ahead of Shinth, a grave disappointment, regarding which I'll have words with you later." "Retief," Magnan hissed as they accompanied the group toward the brightly lit platform. "If we slip away now we may be able to sign on as oilers on that tramp freighter I saw at the port this afternoon. It looked unsavory to dispense with technicalities -- " "Don't do anything hasty, Mr. Magnan," Retief advised. "Just play it by ear -- and be ready to pick up any dropped cues." On the platform, Retief took a position at Ambassador Shinth's bony elbow. The Groaci gave a startled twitch when he saw him. "Captain Thilf didn't want me to miss anything," Retief said. "He decided to let me go after all." "You dare to show your face here, after assaulting my -- " "Kidnappers?" Retief suggested. "I thought under the circumstances perhaps we could agree to forget the whole incident, Mr. Ambassador." "Hmm. Perhaps it would be as well. I suppose my role might be subject to misinterpretation -- " Shinth turned away as the orchestra, composed of two dozen Squalians doubling as brass and strings, struck up a rousing medley of ctassic Elvis Presley themes. As the music ended a spotlight speared out, highlighting the slender figure of the Groaci Ambassador. "Mr. Prime Minister," he began, his breathy voice rasping in IF the PA system. "It gives me great pleasure -- " signal; an inconspicuous strand of pale purple that had glided snake-like across the platform slithered up behind Shinth, and unseen by any but Retief, deftly whipped around the Groaci's spindly neck, quite invisible under the elaborate fuffs sported by the diplomat. A soft croak issued from the speakers spaced around the plaza. Then the voice resumed. "It grates me pleazh givver, as I was saying, to tray pibute to my escolled teamleague, Amblunder Grossbaster, by ungaling the Verran tift to the palion Squeeple." The Groaci's spindly arm, assisted by a tough length of Chauncey, reached out and yanked the tripline holding the tarps in' place. "What in the world did he say?" Grossblunder growled. "I had the distinct impression he called me something unprintable -- " He interrupted himself as the canvas tumbled away from the structure to reveal the baroque pile dazzling under the lights, pennants awave from the minarets. "Why -- that's my Bolshoi-type ballet theater!" Grossblunder blurted. "And a glendid spift it is, too, Fenwick," the Prime Minister exclaimed, seizing his hand. "But I'm a fit conbused -- I was inder the umpression this decereful little lightemony was arranged by Amshisiter Balth -- " "Merely a bit of artful misdirection to keep your Excellency in suspense, ha-ha," Magnan improvished hastily. "You mean -- this strendid splucPM expressed confusion by writhing his features dizzyingly. "But I had a direct stinkollection of ceding the site to the Groaci Mission -- " "Magnan," Grossblunder hissed "What's going on here?" As Magnan stuttered, Retief stepped forward, offering a bulky pairchment, elaborately sealed and red-taped. Grossblunder tore it open and stared at the Gothic lettering. "Magnan, you rascal! You staged all this mummery just to add an element of suspense to the proceedings, eh?" "Whom -- I -- your Excellerl?" Magnan croaked. "Don't be bashful, my boy." Grossblunder poked a meaty finger into Magnan's ribs. "I'm delighted! About time someone enlivened the proceedings." His eye fell on Shinth, whose body was twitching in a curious rhythm, while his eye stalks waved in no discernible pattern. "Even my Groaci colleague seems caught up in the spirit of the moment," he boomed heartily. "Well, in response I suppose we can hardly fail to reciprocate in the same spirit. I suggest we all troupe off now to witness the presentation of the Groaci project, eh?" "Laybe mater," a faint voice croaked. "Night row I got to boe to the gathroom." Shinth turned stiffly and tottered away amid shouts, flashbulbs, bursting skyrockets, and a stirring rendition of the Dead March from Saul... "Retief," Magnan gasped as the Ambassador and the PM moved off, chatting cordially. "What? How -- " "It was a little too late to steal the building back," Retief said. "I did the next best thing and stole the deed to the property." iver thin ice," Magnan said, lifting a plain ginger ale from the tray proffered by a passing waiter. He cast a worried eye across the crowded lounge toward ArfTbassador Grossblunder. "If he ever finds out how close we came to having to write a Report of Survey on one Ballet Theater -- and that you violated the Groaci Embassy and stole offi' cial documents -- and that one of our drivers laid the equivalent of hands on the person of Shinth himself -- " he broke off as the slight figure of the Groaci Ambassador appeared at the entry beside them, his finery in a state of disarray, his eyes canted at an outraged angle. "Good lord," Magnan gasped. "I wonder if it's too late to catch that freighter?" "Thievery," Shinth hissed, catching sight of Retief. "Assault! Mayhem! Treachery!" "I'll drink to that," a portly diplomat said blurrily, raising his glass. "Ah, there, Shinth," Grossblunder boomed, advancing through the press like an icebreaker entering Cartwright Bay. "Delighted you decided to drop by -- " "Save your unction," the Groaci hissed. "I am here to call to your attention the actions of that one." he pointed a trembling digit at Retief. Grossblunder frowned at the latter. "Yes -- you're the fellow who carries my briefcase," he started. "What -- " There was a sudden soft thump, merged with a metallic clatter, Grossblunder looked down. On the polished floor between his feet and those of the Groaci were spread several hundred chromeplated paper clips. "Oh, did you drop something, your Excellency?" Magnan chirped. "So!" Grossblunder bellowed, his face purpling to a shade which aroused a murmur of admiring comment from the Squalian bearers gathering to observe the byplay. "Why, however did those paper IF clips get into my pocket?" Shinth wondered aloud, but without conviction. "Ha!" Grossblunder roared. "So that's what you were after, eh? I should have known -- " "Bah!" Shinth responded with a show of spirit. "What matter a few modest souvenirs in the fight of the depradations of -- " "Few? You call sixty-seven gross a few?" Shinth looked startled. "How did you -- that is to say, I absolutely deny -- " "Save your denials, Shinth!" Grossblunder drowned the Groaci out. "I intend to prosecute -- " "I came here to speak of grand larceny," Shinth cut in, attempting to regain the iniative. "Breaking and entering! Assault and battery!" "Decided to make a clean breast of it, eh?" Grossblunder boomed. "That will be in your favor at the trial." "Sir," Magnan whispered urgently. "In view of Ambassador Shinth's magnanimous blunder -- I mean gesture -- earlier in the evening, don't you think it might be possible to overlook this undeniable evidence of red-handed theft? We could charge the paper clips up to representational expenses, along with the liquor." "It was his doing!" Shinth pointed past Magnan at Retief. "You must be confused," Grossblunder said in surprise. "That's just the fellow who carries my briefcase. Magnan is the officer in charge of the investigation. His harassment got to you, eh, Shinth? Conscience found you out at last. Well, as Magnan suggests, I suppose I could be lenient just this once. But that's one you owe me -- " Grossblunder clapped the Groaci on his narrow back, urging him toward the nearest punchbowl. "Heavens," Magnan breathed to Retief. "What a stroke of luck! But I'm astonished Shinth could have been so incautious as to bring his loot along to the reception." "He didn't," Retief said. "I planted it on him." "Retief -- you didn't -- " "Afraid so, Mr. Magnan." "But -- in that case, the paper clip thefts are still unsolved -- and his Groacian Excellency is being unjustly blamed." "Not exactly; I found the sixtyseven gross stashed in his office, concealed under a flower box full of jelly-blossoms." "Good lord -- " Magnan took out a scented tissue and mopped at his temples. "Imagine having to lie, cheat and steal, just to do a little good in the world. There are times when I think the diplomatic life is almost too much for me." "Funny thing," Retief said, easing a Bacchus brandy from a passing tray. "There are times when to me it seems hardly enough."  Always know your enemy -- but know yourself even better! I T he great blue sun was a long way from the planet called afheavily over the hot sand under its of Survey and Contact Bureau, Syrian Combine, thanked the One God that its heat was no worse. It barely approximated # F on Terra. Even so, only Powers' superb condition enabled him still to keep moving at the steady trot he was forcing himself to maintain. Beside him the lean, seven-foot form of his Lyran partner sped on with no visible effort, flexible tail streaming behind him, slender five-clawed toes making only a faint rustle in the black sand of the canyon's floor, a noise imperceptible to anyone but the man running beside him. Powers could barely hear the thud of his heart but he had no trouble with the crunch of his feet as the plastic sandals bit into the ground and occasional patches, of naked rock over which the two ran. Sweat poured from his nearly naked body. It was kept from his eyes by a crude headband, hastily made of cloth torn from the coat of his vanished uniform. Other than this, sandals and his calf-length service pants, he wore nothing at all. In the waste all wasjstill save for the two running figures. Above them, on both sides, the towering walls of the mighty gorge rose sheer and stark, black and red rock making a pattern of ferocious beauty. Except for ah occasional gray cactus -- like shrub clinging to the rock or rooted in some crevice, no vegetation was visible. Down the almost straight hundred-foot width of the canyon floor the two ran, as if competing in some strange contest. In another quarter of a mile Powers stole a glance at his wristchron. "Break," he croaked and came to an abrupt stop. The Lyran checked at once and whirled in one easy motion to look back up the canyon, his long tail curling gracefully as he did so. Seeing nothing, he turned his great red goggle eyes on his human companion, his immobile, snouted face looking like nothing as much as a magnified head of a Terran chameleon. But there was both intelligence and concern in the huge, lambent orbs as he saw how Powers panted while he crouched on one knee. "Bill," he said in Universal, making it sound more like Hipeei "you don't look so good. Can you last much longer?" "Why in hell, you overgrown skink, you don't get out of here, is beyond me," gasped Powers. "How much water you got left?" The Lyran examined the skin water bag slung over one bony shoulder. "Maybe a quart. Maybe a touch more. Want some?" "Yeah," said the man, holding up one hand for the water. He drank rapid gulps of the muddy, lukewarm fluid and handed the skin back in silence. The olivescaled Lyran stood above him, lean double-ankled legs locked as he braced himself on his long stiffened tail, the whole forming a rigid triangle on which to rest. In this IF portion he also shaded Powers from the sun but neither one mentioned it, any more than he did the fact that only Powers had used the water. native of Beta Lyrae IV or Zzorm, an ancient, arid planet, a world not unlike the Karoo desert of Southern Africa over much of its expanse. He needed little water at any time and the hot blue glare of giant Origen bothered him hardly at all. It was the man who was in really bad trouble and they both knew it. There was no need to make any comment. The help was an automatic reflex and on a different, perhaps wetter, world, would have been as freely given in reverse. Powers' breath had subsided to normal and he checked his chron again. "Let's go," he said, coming to his feet. "I've had five minutes and we haven't got time to hang around. We don't know what those hellions turned loose after us. We only have the one chance and we need cover." "Quiet a moment, please," said the Lyran. He was now standing fully erect and his broad, plte-like tympanum surfaces, far more sensitive than human ears to vibration, were quivering as he strained to catch a sound. Powers waited, also staring up canyon. He could sec and hear nothing. The shimmering haze, caused by heat reflected off the rocks arid sand, made visibility almost nil more than two hundred yards away. "Yes," said Mazzechazz after a moment. "Something comes, something large and with many limbs, my friend. We had best resume our journey. We can do nothing here." The two began to run down canyon again, their eyes ceaselessly scanning the terrain ahead and on either side. They needed an ambush spot, anything at all that would give them a chance against whatever horror had been loosed on their trail. A chance to use their one weapon. As he ran Powers cursed the grim humor of the Arghor war chiefs to himself, not for the first time. They had carefully deprived the two agents of all their weapons, even down to knives, leaving them only a food pack, water and a limited amount of clothing. Two items of Powers' personal jewelry had been overlooked or considered unimportant. One was his wristchron, the other the large Space Academy ring he wore, set with a green stone. Next, the Arghor had left them at the head of the great gorge and told them to run. "One comes perhaps, whom it would not be well to meet," the oldest chief had growled jovially and all the surrounding warriors had yelped in what passed for delighted laughter, some even slapping their black-furred thighs in a fair approximation of mirth. For the tenth time since their capture at the end of the previous night, Powers had, with dignity, pointed out that he and the Lyran had the status of ambassadors and that the sky gods would curse any who harmed such. "We have harmed no one. Skydweller," snarled the old chief venomously. "You came unasked, out of nowhere, on behalf of other irreligious, muck-eating monsters like yourselves down on the plain yonder. Whom we will kill in due course. You claim to be heralds, ambassadors? We asked for none, nor were w asked by your people to receive any. We found you at night lurking on our land near your sky machine, doubtless engaged in some vile skypeople plot. We could kill you at once without losing honor. This one with you looks like an evil spirit. "But you are heralds, you say? Perhaps. We will release you then. If you are true warriors you need no cowardly death beams," and he pointed a massive, pelted hand at the two Ferraby handlasers lying on the ground. "Let us have our knives then. Eldest," rejoined Powers, staring impassively into the angry yellow eyes. "If you leave us defenseless entirely, then who will be the coward?" "No!" roared the angry old chief. Standing so close to Powers that his sharp-snouted, hairy face was only inches away. "No -- we give you a chance for life, no more. You deserve no more, like all the dirty leaf and root eaters in your tribe. If you are true people, true hunters, make the most of it and save yourselves. Otherwise, die here and now." "We are ready," interrupted the Lyran. He had been standing, arms folded, not speaking, while Powers argued. Now he took Powers by the arm and gently pulled him back. The Unitrans machine which had taught them both to speak the Arghor dialect could not help to make the barks, growls and grunts as fluent for the reptilian mouth of the Lyran, but the tribemen nevertheless fell silent when he spoke. Humans they were used to seeing, but Mazzechazz was un-. canny, and the fact that he could speak to them in their own tongue made them even more nervous. They were not afraid, exactly, but there was a grudging respect in their attitute toward the towering lizard shape that was absent in their attitude toward Powers. "Go then," grunted the old chief, "You have been given food and a skin of water. If you escape from the Hunter of the Sands we will kill you later -- but in fair fight. Now go." Powers turned and followed his IF partner down the crude vine ladder to the canyon floor far below. At the bottom he looked up, expecting to see the assembled tribe gazing down, prick-eared in the clear light of the coming dawn. But the ladder was hauled up by invisible hands and then there was nothing. The Arghors had vanished, apparently uninterested. "I think we had better run, friend," said Mazzechazz gently, taking the unspoken thought from his mind. "They surely would like to see us die -- and that means they are probably extremely scared of what's coming. They are not hanging around to see how we'll make out." N OW, three hours later, they had been running, running and running, thought Powers. And still they had found no position for making a stand. The level bottom of the canyon had stayed smooth, large, flat rocks alternating with fine gravel and sand, but with no break or usable crevice in the towering walls. The gentle downward slope never varied or ceased. Only the timed rests and his iron will had kept Powers from collapsing, but Sakh Mazzechazz could still go a long way. Powers knew that the big Lyran ought to have left him but he had given up arguing. The other had made it plain that he was not going to desert his partner for any reason whatsoever, mission or no mission. As he pounded grimly and undeviatingly along. Powers tried to keep his mind off his straining muscles and laboring breath by recasting the events of the past few cycles in his mind. Everything had happened quickly -- too quickly. While returning from a pirate scan near the outer Magellanies he and his teammate, Mazzechazz, had been beeped by a subdimensional probe, matching velocities with their two-man, deep-space Farover. The powered message capsule, actually a tiny ship keyed to a molecular frequency in their own vessel's construction, had been taken aboard, stored for return to base, its coded contents read. The message had come through the subspace dimension from H.Q. on Sirius Prime. It seemed that no Word had been received for three weeks. Universal time, from a new human colony on a TerraThe colony was one of the products of an influential religious body, the Methodist Revival Templars, a group originating on old Terra in the distant past, still with Terran headquarters, but powerful on other worlds also. The Templars were ancient Christian in their remote antecedents and gave their clergy a lot of authority. A strongly pacific -- even pacifist -- sect, they had a previous record of planting useful and healthy colonies on a number of worlds suitable for agriculture. They did not despise scientific technology but favored the simple life. Although the colony was human, thenative inhabitants of Origen classified as clearly mammalian. Pictures and data on the planet, its ecology, resources and all other pertinent matters were included in the message. The Templar colony had been supposed to report twice a (Universal) week, but via sub-space radio, not capsule. Mission for Powers and Mazzechazz: Go find out what was wrong and either report ortake appropriate action. Coordinates were given. That was all. T he silent colony on Origen cate. Set in a valley at the base of a mountainous and rugged peninsula on the larger of the two northern continent, it could be picked up easily on a clear night by its blaze of light. No natural satellite circled the planet to give light and the glow of the settlement was .very plain. Farover landed easily, flickering out of the black sky into a glare of flood lights at the edge of wiiat quickly revealed itself as a brand-new, defensive perimeter. Heavily armed men, their faces haggard with strain, had swarmed around the ship as soon as it touched down. On emergence, the two Survey agents were caught up in a babbling crowd of excited people, all talking at once and were rushed almost off their feet to the office of the colony's governor, who was also its chief priest. Behind them as they went. Powers noticed guards digging still more trenches and laying wire around the S. and C. ship, enclosing it in the zone of defense. When all others but the six members of the governor's council had been excluded and a guard had been posted outside, the two agents were finally able to ask questions. At least, so they thought. Governor Halk Tahira, #resbyter of the Faith, was a man of late middle age and, if Powers were any judge, late middling experience and intelligence as well. He had been ready to explode for days and waited no longer. "Do you know what's been going on here?" he had shouted rhetorically. "This place was cleared, pronounced safe by all official sources. Safe and harmless! The natives were listed as 'primitive, s.emi-nomadic indigenes, mammalian type, humanoid in structure and intelligence and friendly to outside contacts!' Friendly! Humanoid! That's what the official report said. "Do you know what we call this place? Wolf World!" He had raved on. And since IF Powers and Mazzechazz were learning something from his attitude they made no move to interrupt. Finally he ran down, more from lack of wind than emotion and the real questions started. Allowing for hysteria and shock, what had been allowed to happen seemed bad enough, in all truth. Someone, and it looked like Survey and Contact, which bore the responsibility for the first reports, had goofed, but good. semi-nomadic all right -- carnivores at various levels of Stone Age culture, who ate nothing but meat unless literally starving. Cannibalism was usually a matter of ritual but perfectly acceptable if the meat were an enemy warrior of one's one tribal group. The planet provided a variety of environments, all of them swarming with large and small game. Most of the big game animals and their attendant predators were highly dangerous themselves. You worked for your dinner. At first friendly enough, the natives had swiftly become contemptuous on discovering that the humans were omnivores whose basic diet was vegetable, who did not eat each other and failed to see hand-to-hand combat as the only hobby for an idle moment. The natives were erect, bipedal and possessed five digits on what a zoologist would style manus and pes or hand and foot. Opposable thumbs were present. In general appearance and at a fast look the natives resembled nothing so much as human-sized, black dogs walking upright, although they wore harnesses of leather and made sophisticated bone and stone tools. They lived in palisaded villages, used fire and were quite as intelligent as any member race of the Syrian Combine. Their economy was strictly primitive, however, and since they actually occupied a very small share of the planet's total surface, the Combine Xenological Bureau had given permission for a colony, subject to the usual safeguards. These, were designed to protect the natives, be it stated, and not the colony. The Grawm, as the race styled itself, was anything but united. Primitives almost never are and exception. T he particular body of Grawm who called themselves Arghor, was a widespread confederacy of ten tribes, numbering perhaps a bit less than ten thousand warriors. As part of their hunting grounds they owned the peninsula on which the human settlement had been placed. Sparked by anti-vegetarian disgust and apparently urged on by a powerful (and hitherto unsuspected) shamanic priesthood, they had attacked the colony in broad daylight a month earlier. Despising humans and unaware of what advanced technology possessed in the way of weapons, the Arghor warriors had relied on head-on charges. At tremendous cost to themselves, the "Wolves" had penetrated to the governor's quarters, destroying the subspace radio shack en route and by mere chance. When they were finally driven out, ninety-two men, twenty-two women and eleven children were dead or missing. Merely wounded in one degree or another were two hundred and ten more. An estimated, thousand Arghor, all fighting males, had been killed, mostly by close-range laser fire. Now the colony had been placed under a loose but effective siege. At first individual Arghor warriors tried to kill Templar sentries at night, for both weapons and prestige. A jury-rigged radar network had quickly put a stop to this practice. It was now safe to move around the colony perimeter, but that was all. No hunting was possible except by airboat and the boats had to land and retrieve anything killed at once. The seven existing airboats could hardly feed the eight hundred people who remained in any case, and the emergency food stocks were already half gohe. The speed-growth crops on which the colony had relied for the coming season were totally destroyed, the fields stamped flat by the enraged Arghor. All in all. Powers had reflected, a fairly fnessy situation. He was not unaware of the psychic damage either. Peaceful people, who hated violence, had been forced to kill and had seen loved ones killed as well. This was as much a tragedy as the purely physical aspects of what had happened. He had interrupted the fuming governor at this point in the story and inquired what that ecclesiastic official thought ought to be done. "Ought to be done?" spluttered Presbyter Tahira angrily. Powers decided Tahira was a standard Mark I bureaucrat -- overweight, confused and helpless in an emergency. "We should get a battleship. Marines, heavy lasers, clear this end of the peninsula," the governor had suggested, his voice rising. Other members of the council had joined in. "Paralysis beams -- null rays -- grabbers -- rover bombs -- " The babble had slowly died away as it became apparent that Powers and Mazzechazz were simply sitting, saying nothing, waiting. Finally the room was silent again. Reverend Presbyter," Powers had said. "I'll tell you what we're actually going to IF do. You Templars, despite your religion and its training, all seem to have forgotten the Combine Charter. This is not your world, unless the intelligent inhabitants want you. This they no longer do. Whose fault your coming here was originally means nothing, understand me, nothing." He had stared coldly at the council and no eyes had met his. The Lyran had waited quietly. This was human business. Powers then continued. "My partner nd I will try to fix up this mess. Peaceably. You people can defend yourselves if attacked and that is absolutely all. I am assuming military command of this post. Does anyone oppose my authority for so doing?" Again there was silence. No one had wished to go on record as opposing Survey and Contact Field Agents. The reputation of the Corps insured that. In addition, the reminder of their religion and its teachings was not making them deeply ashamed. Reinstalling the governor as commandant, but this time as his deputy. Powers had filed a subspace report of the situation to Prime base from the ship's radio. After ordering an emergency supply ship to leave at once and outlining his procedures and ideas as part of the report. Powers had not waited for an answer. The two S. and C. specialists had decided to head for the main Arghor encampment that very night and start the ball rolling. He and Mazzechazz had taken one of the colony's airboats and landed on the rim of the plateau about a mile from the blaze of fires marking the main Arghor camp. Several canyons and gorges ran up from the end of the peninsula and the human settlement's location to the top of the massif. The Arghor apparently were based in a whole series of camps, in the mountains and sent their warriors down to attack the offworlders in rotation. At any rate, with less than one more Universal period left of the local, or four-day, night. Powers and Mazzechazz decided to try a sneak survey of the main enemy position. They landed, seemingly undetected. Only the cry of some distant bird thing and the hum of insects had. broken the velvet darkness. As the airboat touched down gently on the grass of the plateau a local mammoth-sized herbivore had burst, trumpeting loudly, out of an adjacent clump of brush and trampled heavily on and over the rear or engine part of the machine before galloping ponderously into the surrounding gloom. In no more than five seconds, before they had even left the airboat, the two agents had been robbed of ninety percent their mobility. Badly shaken around and battered though they were, yet no real bodily injury had occurred. Feeling more or less safe, both from the distance to the enemy camp and the presence of the hulking brute which had smashed their aircraft, Powers and the Lyran had started to examine the damage to the little vessel. They later agreed that one of them should have manned the combat radar, but by the time the hide lassos had dropped neatly out of the black night and over their shoulders it had been a bit late to worry about it. Caught by an alert Arghor hunting party, which had chanced to be downwind of their landing, Terran and Lyran had been dragged before the hastily summoned Assembly of Chiefs, stripped and sentenced, all in one operation. As dawn came up they had gone down into the canyon. II T he two runners rounded a sharp bend in the gorge -- and both abruptly halted, looking at each other as the topography sank in. This was the first sharp corner they had found since starting. "Do you think we can do better?" hissed Mazzechazz. "We have perhaps five minutes before it comes." "This looks quite possible," said Powers absently. In front of him were two hugh, steep-sided rocks, giant boulders over twenty feet high, which almost blocked the whole canyon. The last flash flood must have failed to move them farther down the canyon floor. A narrow gap between the rocks -- only about six feet wide -- constituted the sole pathway to whatever lay beyond. Walking through this opening and pacing it. Powers estimated its depth at about ten feet and the distance to the corner they had just rounded at double that. "This is okay," he said. "We can relax, I think, unless what's coming is a lot tougher than it has any right to be. Should be quite killable on a Terranorm planet though." "It comes now," said the Lyran and proceeded to crouch low at the downcanyon base of one of the great stones, the one to the right. His tail was coiled neatly about his ankles and his great eyes were covered by his long-fingered hands. The man stepped out into the middle of the gap and waited. He finished very carefully removing the large stone, an oval green Cadmean fire eye, from the ring on his right third finger. As he looked upcanyon he hefted the stone in his right hand, keeping his thumb and index finger pressed on it. He could hear the rustling himself now -- it was rapidly becoming louder and louder. Powers poised for action. Around the corner of the cliff appeared two immense whiplike antenna, a sickly blue in color. They IF were followed by a great, flat head surmounted by two monstrous pupilless eyes, also blue. From mighty mandibles at the front of the head drooled a foul-scented ichor as the creature paused to examine the puny-looking prey, which seemed to await it with such confidence. Six great, jointed legs, tipped with spiked claws, and then an armored, ten-foot body slowly followed the. awful head around the corner. Powers and the beast were now no more than fifteen feet apart. "Down!" shouted the Terran and hurled the three-quarter inch stone square, flat and low, at the nightmare head. Even as he released the tiny trigger pressed down underneath the stone, he was diving to the left for the shelter of the other great rock. He fell prone -- face ground into the sand -- behind it as the tiny Osmium wrecker bomb went into its nuclear cycle, exactly on target. The huge boulder actually shifted in its bed next to him and a blast of superheated air came over its top and around the sides. Powers, his eyes tightly shut, hugged the sand as the terrific heat of the almost soundless explosion eddied around his body and the sand swirled over his naked back and shoulders. His eardrums ached from the pressure of the blast. "Get up. Bill," said Mazze chazz. "It worked." somewhat embarrassed by the fact that he had not yet realized it was safe to do so. He found the big Lyran standing in the gap between the two mammoth stones. The sand on which his clawed feet rested was now covered by a thin film of fused, black glass, a mute tribute to the tiny bomb's intense heat. The two looked back up canyon but except for a scorched area,, fifty feet across, where sand and rock had flowed together, there was nothing to be seen. "Superscorp seems to have bought it," acknowledged Powers. There was not a speck of matter to show that the giant arthropod had ever existed, so savage had been the instant furnace created by the nuclear Osmium. "That's the second time that ring has saved my life," aid Powers, turning away. "Give me a swallow of the water and let's go. If my bearings are right, we should make the base camp in three more hours, provided the Wolves don't pick us off first." "They probably have the camp ringed by scouts," said Mazzechazz, passing over the canteen. "We know how good they are. Why not signal, use smoke or something and call down one of the three big airboats they have left?" "The Arghor could reach us a lot quicker, I suspect." They both glanced up at the rims of the gorge, far above against the white sky, but no sign of life or movement could be seen there. Some winged creatures circled higher still, probably the local analog of vultures. The oppressive heat of Origen, the great, blue sun, still lay all around them. The man drank some lukewarm water and considered, while the Lyran waited. Of the two, Mazzechazz was the profounder thinker, the philosopher-logician, the chess player. He was also the memory bank, a living library of history and technology, spanning many races and worlds besides his own. But in a situation calling for lightning action, reflex moves and brutal cunning Homo sapiens had still not met a peer in the galaxy. Powers was the decision maker here by mutual consent. Just as he had cold-bloodedly risked annihilation for years by wearing a long-outlawed nuke ringstone, so he now ran the combat situation on a moment-to-moment basis. In this case his decision stayed fixed. "We have a better chance trying it on foot," he decided aloud. "They won't be expecting us and I'm pretty sure the whole tribe back at the main camp thinks we're dead. We got caught good when the airboat was stomped -- but I'm damned if I think any primitive can beat us at scouting when we really work at it." Without another word they set off down the canyon again. They now possessed no weapon at all, save for their wits, but the prospect of meeting another ravening life form daunted neither of them. They were trained to do all they could and not worry about what could not be helped. Worrying, as opposed to forethought, clouded the mind. A clouded mind could mean bad reaction time and that got you killed. So, at a trot calculated to save energy, the two agents loped along, looking for the next obstacle. T en Universal hours later Powers was as tired as he had ever been in his sometimes very active life. He and his partner were uncomfortably ensconced in a giant tree, about a half-mile from the fortified outer zone of the Templar settlement. To all appearances, as far as their getting to home base safely went, they might as well have been on the other side of the planet. They had emerged earlier from the mouth of the canyon to find themselves in more or less dense forest, although moving in the right direction for ultimate safety. Realizing that they probably stood a good chance of being slaughtered on the ground by native predators, if not by the Arghor, they had taken to the towering trees and moved more or less easily along through them toward the base. Their alien order probIF ably helped keep what animals they saw at a distance. But now, out of water and hungry, they seemed stuck and could see no way to go farther. Arghor sentries, easily spotted from high above, were spread all around the section of base perimeter the two could observe. The offworld agents had managed to count nine of them, in a layer three deep, crouched in immobile watchfulness. The warriors were not too close to one another laterally; that is, each file of three formed a rather isolated line extending out from the base to the forest's edge, each of the enemy being about one hundred and fifty feet apart. With the wolf people's keen scent and hearing the formation appeared an effective one. It was hard to see how man and Lyran could get by without detection. "Suppose we went between two of the files?" said Powers in a whisper. "Then both sets would hear or  smell us," said Mazzechazz. "But I have an idea. These are very proud, independent creatures, help unless desperate. Many savages act so. Now suppose we come down, you in front and then -- " Powers' answering whisper grew excited. An hour later they were hailing the Templar sentries manning the perimeter. And ten minutes after that they were relaxing in air-conditioned privacy on their own ship. "I'm amazed that anything that obvious worked," mumbled Powers as he chewed away at the second large steak he had cooked. Across the dining table, Mazzechazz was eating spiced, processed fruit. His people had never been carnivores, or at least not since a stage analogous to a shrew in human evolution. He finished a portion of something purple and juicy and flicked a handful of seeds out of his mouth with his slender tongue before answering. ogy. Action is not everything. What could be simpler? You walk up to a sentry, naked, unarmed and hands in the air. By the way, there is food for thought in this area of defenselessnes. I must consider it, "To resume, can he kill you? No, you are helpless, he has to talk, figure things out, try to understand why you are out there coming from the wrong direction. This is too much of a puzzle. In the half-minute it takes to think of asking for advice, not help, mind you, advice, I, the quieter moving of the two, have eased up behind him and throttled him into insensibility. The sentries in the files to left and right have heard nothing and the two remaining in his own line but nearer to camp have not been called. He gets tied up, I take his knife for insurance and we repeat the performance twice more, all the way into camp. Psychology!" He selected a package of Terran figs and carefully opened it, transparent nictitating membranes snapping over his eyes in anticipation. For a while the two ate in silence. At last, his belt groaning. Powers leaned back and reached for a pipe. "So now what? We managed to get out safe and sound, but that's all. Got any ideas? "It seems to me," he went on, without waiting for the other to speak, "that we have to recommend evacuation. The Atghor are intelligent, quite highly intelligent, even if they've only arrived at the Neolithic. They now detest humans and want to kill them all. It's their planet and they have the right to do so if the humans remain. The humans, under Syrian Combine law, do not have the right to kill the Arghor, even in self defense, once they the humans that is, have been officially told to leave and the Combine has evaluated the situation and agreed. Which would seem to make evacuation the only possibility. Someone is going to get a very noisy kick in the pants over this," he added. "I mean the S. and C. team that recommended this hell hole for colonization. And that's our service responsibility. The whole of Survey and Contact is going to look awfully incompetent when this news gets out. Even the Bureau can't keep this one quiet. There are too many people and departments involved, Xenological. Colonization -- all those, etcetra." He subsided, stoking his pipe with black Cannicotea antarea, lighting it and emitting clouds of lavender smoke. T he Lyran ran his tongue around his wide, lipless mouth, pushed the empty food containers away and leaned back in his hammock, supple tail curling neatly around the stanchion which supported one end of it. he said gently. "We have only been here a little over one cycle. Besides, if my ideas are correct, there should be no real trouble about this colony. A little thought is what is needed, a little philosophy, a little history, and a little psychology. Something workable exists in our common store of experience for every eventuality. We have only to tap the proper circuit." "Have you got something to use all that quickly?" said Powers. "Short of driving the Arghor out of an area and erecting a large force field, I can't think of anything." "There are several possibilities," said the Lyran. "They are perhaps eighty percent carnivIF orous or even more, from the recorded data. We could quite easily remove most of the game animals from any given area, perhaps drive the animals out with contact sonics. The Arghor would also have to move or starve." "That's interference with a native intelligent life form. Destroying or moving their food supply is hardly noninterference, is it?" "All right," rejoined Mazzechazz. "But it's not lethal and surely allowable." "Not, and I stress this point," said Powers smugly, "unless the people or civilization or culture or what have you constitute a menace to the peace of the civilized universum. From "constitute" on, that's a quote from our own manual, which you know better than I do." He leaned back and .exhaled more of the pungent smoke. Since Lyrans have no powers of scent worth' mentioning, Mazzechazz had never noticed the aroma of Powers' pipe, which made many other beings as well as humans ill. never really intended this proposal seriously: I simply wished to indicate that there are any number of solutions to any given problem and that we should be exploring them and not trying to evade our duty. We need to reason matters through, not simply report that matters are hopeless," Powers tried to look thoughtful. All that came to his mind was a desire to rest, which was not very helpful. The Lyran, however, had a modest share of the strange telepathic talent of his race. "Go lie down," he said. "I don't feel tired. When you wake up I'll give you a dozen solutions, all good. Then you can explain why none of them will work. Yet one of them will be correct. The clue I will leave you to dream over is this: the answer lies in ancient Terra, in your own past." T he following day, local time, was busy indeed. Once persuaded that the weird proposal made by Mazzechazz was quite legitimate and even practical. Powers had to sell it to the governor and council of the Templars. He knew that if these men, particularly the Presbyter-governor, could be convinced, the rest of the colony would follow. The debate was long. "Presbyter, I am not a merriber of your splendid religion," he said, trying a new argument, "but isn't there a saying 'Oh, Ye of little faith -- ' in your holy book?" "Yes, there is," said Tahira  Four Universal #-hour (Terran) perithe human colony Universal Time based on this cycle was maintained artificially, since the days and nights were simply too long for human activities. The Grawm were largely diurnal but not entirely so. sourly. "However, you are offering an explanation based on science not religion. And if you are wrong we will all perish miserably, women and children as well." "All the Research and Biological authorities we have messaged on Prime Base bear my partner out," countered Powers. "They also say that if the plan is not tried the only alternative is to recommend immediate evacuation. The colony will be completely written off and the planet will become an educatable ward of the Syrian Combine. Perhaps it will be opened to colonization again, by some more reasonable, adaptable group." Alwiys save the sting for the tail, the psych books said. "further," he continued, "your remark about all perishing is silly. There is some danger to a few of us -- those out in front -- I agree. I will be out there in front, you know, with whoever volunteers from your colony. The extrapolation based on BuPsych readings says about twenty men should be enough. No women or kids need be involved at all." "Suppose they use missile weapons, spears maybe, from a distance?" said a younger council member; one of the smarter ones. Powers recalled. "They'll be barred from doing so for two' reasons," said Powers. "One, we'll be away out in a part of your fields near no cover when they spot us. Two, they kill hand-tohand from preference. We'll be isolated, almost naked and empty-handed when they first see us working. The results will surprise you, I guarantee. "Look," he went on, "Sakh and I dug up one of the dead Arghor you buried and dissected him right down to his capillaries. These are pure and simple pack carnivores, only a lot more intelligent than the four-footed variety you and I are used to. In fact, let's face it, in lots of ways as intelligent as you or I. No species precisely like them has been encountered up to this point, but they obviously had to appear at some point just because of the law of averages. And as Sakh points out, they're a picture-book example of what had been predicted they would be like if they ever did appear. "They live in tribes, which are little more than extended families or clans, rather like Terran primitives. "The Amerindians of old Noramerica," said a hitherto silent councilor. "Exactly," said Powers, glad of any support, however vague and qualified. "To go on, they possess a high degree of what used to be called chivalry. They never harm the females, the aged and the young in their battles with each other. War is a sport for healthy males only. Again, there are numerous Terran parallels." IF that what you have said earlier is correct, this last obviously is totally wrong,' sneered the Presbyter. "They killed every child and woman they could reach in the battle. A number are just plain missing and you have admitted that they were probably carried off to be eaten. Is this an example of your so-called chivalry?" Patiently Powers returned to the scientific explanation he had presented earlier in the day. "There again are two points to take note of. Presbyter, One, what were women and children doing during the attack? Two, what is the Arghor view of human beings, inculcated by both your food habits and by the arguments of their priests, wizards or whatever you want to call them? "Don't answer," he went on. "I know what happened and so do you. When attacked by hairy, savage monsters the women and kids fought. Who wouldn't?" I agree entirely. But if they had known more, if they had been trained, they would not have fought at all. All they had to do was what I've told you. "Sakh and I took an Arghor prisoner some twelve standard hours ago and we went through his mind up, down and sideways. We knoy the Arghor, I tell you, and Sakh's idea is pure genius -- which is nothing more than intuition, memory and scientific knowledge all coalesced. You have to try this or go home with your tails between your legs, beaten by a bunch of primitives and savages." The Templar councilors stared at one another for a few seconds without speaking. Powers leaned back in his chair, projecting a good imitation of casualness and tried not to look at the silent Lyran across the table. He, in turn, had no trouble appearing calm. A reptilian face seldom displays emotion in any way a human can read. Powers was aware that his last shot had been fired. And he had managed to conceal a major source of his concern from the council -- the fact that Shrvey and Contact would get a public black eye if the colony were forced to leave. This was something to avoid at all costs. Now he could do nothing but wait. But in truth, the decision had already been made. The Presbyter-governor broke the silence. "It means only risking twenty men, I suppose, and we have lost many more. We need eighteen volunteers, gentlemen." "You mean twenty, don't you, Reverend, sir?" said a council member. "Agent Powers and I make two," said the governor drily. He met Powers' eyes squarely for the first time and even managed the ghost of a smile. Powers said, "I'm honored." The details were easily settled. The long local night was coming to an end. The idea would be tested at dawn by Powers and the others. Mazzechazz would remain in command of the perimeter, most of which would be unguarded. Save for the party of exposed men who had volunteered; there should be no real danger to the rest of the humans on the planet. And in last analysis, the Farover possessed enough armament to stand off with ease anything the whole Arghor confederacy could summon up. But it was not supposed to come to that. There was going to be no violence at all. Powers told himself silently as the meeting broke up-:-.not the slightest bit of violence. Ill chewed-up, rock-strewn piece of what had once been a Templar grain field in the pitch dark just before dawn. Powers was not quite so sure. He and Governor Tahira, plus eighteen other nervous men had shipped out in the colony's airboats a half-hour earlier. They had been dumped, almost naked and armed only with wooden sticks, in the middle of what had been the Templar's ttgricultural area, over a mile from the nearest woods. They were all pretending to hoe. Powers concentrated on mental calisthenics and recited twelve Vegan verse palindromes backward, chopping savagely at the ground as he did so. He could hear nothing and see very little but he felt sure that he and the others had been accurately pinpointed by the Wolves. Quit calling them that, he thought. You re getting to believe Mazzechazz too much and too hard... , And where was that reptilian conman? Why, back on the ship, since he would be useless in this human problem and would merely confuse the issue for the Arghor minds. Artificially preoccupied with such reflections. Powers was taken by surprise by the coming of the dawn. Almost without warning visibility became unlimited. As the rim of the giant sun poked above the horizon he lowered his gaze and squinted. Unconsciously, he and the other men began to draw slowly together, their eyes shuttling to the dark forest. "There they come -- " A young settler, pale but determined, stopped pretending to hoe and pointed. Shading his eyes. Powers saw the line of black dots break out of the forest and move rapidly toward them. "Remember," he shouted, "they can kill us in seconds if you don't obey orders and do what you've been taught. Have faith!" IF "As a priest myself, Agent, in a case like this, perhaps I should be above fear." Presbyter Tahira had moved close to Powers and' spoken in a low tone of voice but his eyes twinkled and he seemed quite calm. The Arghor were now only a hundred yards away, and suddenly the blazing dawn's quiet was shattered by a concerted howl. The warrior nearest to Powers was now charging, heavy, stonetipped spear drawn back in one hairy arm. Others who had outstripped their fellows were about to fall upon Tahira and his eighteen Templars. "Now!" shouted Powers. ing Powers himself, dropped to the ground. The men lay flat on their backs, knees drawn up to protect their stomachs, backs arched and arms extended at full length on the ground. All bent their heads back, so that their straining throats were exposed to the sky above. In this posture, eyes wide open, they waited for the enemy. By rolling his eyes. Powers could see the six-foot, black-furred warrior who had been about to skewer him stop a few yards away, dumbfounded, fanged jaws agape. Unmoving, Powers watched the Arghor approach, spear drooping, until he stood over Powers' body, his rank odor a pungent reminder of alienness. "What is this skyfolk madness?" the Arghor growled. "Get up and fight, die like a warrior, skyman?" Powers remained frozen in his strange posture. The Arghor raised his spear as if to strike and suddenly shrieked horribly. Somehow Powers managed not to flinch. The Arghor stopped screaming. Staring at Powers, he yelped with frystration, shaking his hairy head from side to side and doing a little dance of sheer rage. "Get up and die," he howled again, dancing in a circle. Powers could hear a similar and deafening chorus all around him. It was music to his numbed ears. He allowed himself a small smile. His neck muscles ached from the upward jut of his throat and chin but he could hold the cramped posture a long time if he had to do so. So, he was sure, could the others. Now that they realized it was actually working, they could hold it all day, spurred on by success. His own screaming Arghor suddenly stood squarely over his body, furry legs straddling Powers. Growling horribly and wordlessly, the savage fumbled with his leather breechclout. By God, Sakh even predicted this... Powers then closed his eyes tightly. The ultimate insult and also the ultimate award for success. The prize for cunning was hardly pleasant but it was a far cry from death or defeat. He waited, honest laughter exploding deep in his body, but outwardly as rigid as ever, for the final and irrevocable gesture of contempt. "its first subspace jump on its return trip to Sirius Prime the two agents relaxed, each in his own way. The ship was on automatic and its computer could take care of almost any emergency imaginable. Stripped of his harness, Sakh Mazzechazz was going over his body inch by inch with a tiny battery-operated buffer, polishing his minute scales until his whole yellowish green body gleamed and shimmered in the light. "You must have a date," said Powers. Equally relaxed, he had been transcribing notes for his own private records. Now he put down his recorder and turned his gaze on the Lyran. "I said, you must have a date. Am I right?" "A young female from my delegation's staff on Prime Base has brought me messages from the nearer members of my clan. It is only natural that I hear them in the proper atmosphere of privacy. Otherwise proper reverence would not be displayed." "Yes," agreed Powers. "You mean you have a date." "That's right," said the Lyran. His red goggle eyes met Powers' and the transparent membrane flickered up and down rapidly in an uproarious laugh. Powers smiled. "You deserve a date," he said quietly. "As a matter of fact, you deserve a medal. Not that you'll ever get one, pal. Mind telling me the background of your wizardry back there on Wolf World? You said the clues that gave you the idea were from my own racial history, I know, but we had no time to go into it in any detail." hardly worth discussion. It will be in the report and you can read it later back at H.Q." "Ah, ah," said Powers. "Play fair. Lizard face, I know how modest you pretend to be but this time don't bother. I want a story. Let the backroom boys read it at H.Q. You just tell Daddy in simple language." The Lyran's gular pouch suddenly swelled out into a great, bluish fan under the long, thin jaws. The sight was a frightening one to someone unaccustomed to his race. The gesture meant absolutely nothing, as a matter of fact, being purely vestigial and used perhaps as a yawn or stretch in a human. "Very well," said Mazzechazz, "since you are so insistent. But it hardly bears telling. When the human governor, the priest Tahira, spoke of the Arghor as IF 'wolves,' something clicked in my mind. Somewhere, long ago, I had seen a reference, perhaps far back in time, as a young student. It was to the Terran carnivorous animals called by this name. The reference, too, must have lain in some sphere of my own interest, which, as you know, mainly comprises alien psychology and things related to it. "The Lyran mind, organized as it is, must reject useless information and store usable data only. This reference then must lie in the latter category. I therefore put myself in a trance state while you listened to the history and the hysterics of the governor and his council, and isolated the reference, as well as several related to it -- and others still more remote but bearing on the general subject. The matter of recall under such conditions requires training, of course. But it was not so hard as the time I -- " "Never mind past triumphs," growled Powers. "Stick to Wolf World." "If you insist, Softskin. Your own education may even be raised an infinitesimal notch. Unliklier things have happened." He neatly ducked a seat cushion and went on talking. "Long, long ago on Terra, before your first Global Interregnum, the science of behavioral psychology, which even ! must admit, you excel in, was still in its infancy. Certain of your early scientists, led by a man named Lorenz, postulated that rules of behavior which rigidly governed the lower animals also might affect human beings. The fact that Lorenz and the others had barely begun even to discov-. er the basic rules which governed the lower animals made their work very difficult. "But they persevered. One of them, whose name I never memorized, having no reason to, was working with Canis lUpus, the wolf, the ancestor of all the dogs and doglike things you humans carry about with you to this day as pets and guardians. This person discovered that a pack-living carnivore such as the wolf is the most rule-bound, other-structured animal in creation. It has to be. If it were not, the race it represents would perish. The rules are simple but unbreakable and they go as follows: #) Females and young of its race may not be attacked unless the young are approaching maturity. Then the adult pack leaders may expel them. #) Territories are inviolate and may not be entered without elaborate ceremonial and ritual between packs. #) Any members of the same species, that is, a wolf which exposes its vital organs, such as the throat and belly, and refuses to fight may not be harmed. "The last rule is perhaps the that these rules are common sense for a carnivorous animal. Omnivores and herbivores, such as you and I, can kill our own species with ease. In the case of my planet, a world government came mercifully early, you know the unhappy and bloody history of your own before the Syrian Combine discovered Terra and compelled you to seek membership. "But a true carnivore can only kill on a very small scale. Any male Grawm would have to have a civiltions old to overcome the inbred inhibitions against total war upon his own species. Fighting other males for sexual reasons, smallscale raids for prestige. Tor sport really, all these things, yes. But males and above all those who will not fight back, never! He can't do it. The pack leader can kill any pack member. This is because he is the strongest and the wisest, the most cunning in battle. Those below him do not fight back when he punishes. It would be interesting to know what happens to old leaders! I think I can guess, however. "Once I had recalled all; this I examined, nientally and physically, a Grawm male. It then became a simple matter to set up a construct and a field problem. And of course it worked, because my examination proved my theoretical postulate to be more than approximate. It was more exact than I could believe." "Irritating though it is to' agree with you. I'm afraid you're right," said Powers. "You were so right," he went on, "that when that hairy buck standing over me relieved himself I almost wanted to yell, 'Not me, Mazzechazz did it!' You told me that this was a probable gesture of utter contempt among such a species and it certainly was." "The extrapolation for such an action was only sixty-five percent, allowing for the differences in intelligence and culture between Grawm as a higher species, and wolves," said the Lyran. "I was lucky." "I wasn't." Powers grinned. "But even that kind of bath wasn't much of a price, I agree, not for what we got. Once they realized that the twenty males they had pinned down wouldn't move, wouldn't fight, they sent for the big chiefs. It took xjuite a while but there was no real problem.! simply made it plain that we were nonfighters. That all the fighters had been killed in the big raid and that we would never send any more. That we were cowering behind the colony walls trying to think of a way to tell them this. "They were almost physically ill when I finished. In a generation, maybe, the Propaganda boys can start a little work of an underhand kind and begin to IF civilize them. Meanwhile, they want no part of any human. "Now," he went on, stretching lazily, "we can forget about the Arghor Confederacy -- or any Grawm as a problem. Every colonist will be taught as an infant to flop on his or her back, throat exposed, the minute a male Grawm appears. I strongly suspect that all the Arghor villages will change location to miles away from the settlement -- and very quickly at that. The sense of disgust, the sheer revulsion, at being located near a colony of non-fighting males must be hideously strong. "I am incapable of truly appreciating -- or should I say feeling mammalian emotion, as you know," said Mazzechazz. "I would not have risked this operation without your approval despite all my theory." "The minute you suggested it I knew it would work," said Powers. "These Arghor aren't so very far from my own ancestors in a lot of ways. The main problem, of course, the real risk, was a rather subtle one. Did the Grawm species, specifically the Arghor, despite their hatred and contempt for us, feel we were their spiritual equals? If they didn't, if they saw us a weird but lower form of animal, then all bets were off. Things could have been different. The wolf inplies to one's own kind, not to rabbits or deer. That was the only real chance we had to take. Your figures said it was an extremely good chance, so I took it and persuaded the others to take it as well." "Actually," the Lyran began, "actually you took no chance at all." He appeared in some impossible way, embarrassed at what he was saying. Finally, after looking at a bulkhead, he stared his partner in the eye, using ono of his own periscope orbs, head turned sideways. "I had a needle-beam laser on electronic reflex aimed at your Had he moved one wrong muscle they are -- the telltales, I mean -- he would have died at once. So would the others." Powers was horrified. "My god, that would have violated the major Prime Directive! Are you crazy? How would you have explained it later?" The Lyran's membranes flickered up and down over the great red eyes. "Oh," he said. "I would have thought of something. I am too lazy and too conservative to become accustomed to a new partner, you see. It has nothing, of course, to do with sentiment." Powers looked hard at the Lyran and then himself glanced away at a sealed port. "Yes," he said. "I see."  Science had deprived him of death... T he house had been empty for several days. The skeleton staff had been dismissed well in advance of his arrival and all incoming business calls had been transferred elsewhere to be handled by underlings. Darius Wynter did not wish to be disturbed. His private retreat was so artfully concealed that it seemed from a distance to form part of the rocky headland jutting out of the lugubrious northern coastline. A solitary window in his study overlooked the gray and restless sea. The glass had been treated to eliminate glare and to prevent reflected sunlight from advertising his location. He sat at his desk with his back to the window, a distinguishedlooking man accustomed to supporting his considerable share of his time's problems upon his broad shoulders. Serenity was a familiar companion to him but from time to time deep shadows of doubt crossed his mind. His gray eyes were locked into some inner vision. He sat motionless for some time, conscious of the mournful sound of the distant surf raging against the jagged rocks at the foot of the headland, while his practiced intellect inspected the facets of his problem. Eventually he reached a decision. He reached into an open drawer on his right, withdrew a number of documents and placed them carefully in front of him. He hesitated. Then his hand, guided by familiar reflexes, groped deeper into the drawer and emerged with an ornate handgun. The workmanship of the weapon was remarkable. It was one of the last remaining examples of late twentieth century craftsmanship in the realm of portable lasers. The intricate hand-tooling had always delighted the connoisseur in Darius Wynter. Guns fascinated him and his collection of antique hand weapons was perhaps the finest in the known universe. This particular item was his favorite. He handled it fondly. His long white fingers traced the tactile sensuousness of the intricate patterns of filigree and brought a smile of satisfaction to his weary face. His right hand closed affectionately around the polished jade butt and his finger curled over the firing button. The weapon seemed to come to life under his touch. A warmth spread through his fingers that was like shaking hands with a friend. Yet he knew that this was an illusion, that the warmth, the contentment, came from within himself and were transferred into the beautiful instrument of death. He smiled again. The gun felt comfortable in his hand, as though it had grown there in answer to some need. He lowered his hand until his knuckles touched the cold top of the desk. His mind toyed idly with possibilities. With the beam adjusted to "fine" the gun, when fired, would incinerate an area roughly two feet in circumference -- large enough to burn a man's head into ashes and remove him from all worldly cares -- and quickly enough for him never to know what had happened. His fingers moved, playing with the corrugated adjustment dial on the bridge of the weapon. His eyes had acquired a cool, dispassionate air. He shifted his grip so that the narrow muzzle faced him and his thumb was poised over the small white firing button. A ghost of a smile clung to his bloodless lips. There was always time for one last thought -- behind him he could hear the patient surge of the restless ocean and felt a brief moment of pity for its senseless striving. His left index finger flipped over the safety catch on the ornate handgun. He looked indifferently into the small black eye of death. And pressed the firing button. But time reeled to a stop. Before the last gram of pressure had been applied to the shiny white button under his thumb his hand froze. A sudden stasis grabbed at his body and made it rigid. His blind eyes stared wildly ahead at nothing in particular. Only his thoughts remained active and they tumbled around in his head in no reasonable order; for the time being he had lost the ability to think sequentially. A moment later his Follower materialized in front of him. The Follower was a young man dressed in powder-blue coveralls who had the flat, unimaginative features of a public servant. He stepped casually from the travel portal and moved over to the desk. Behind him the glowing golden nimbus of the portal dimmed but remained in position, ready to transport this servant of the rich back to his observation post once this small crisis had been ironed out. Around his waist was a wide steel belt studded with an array of switches. He carried a small black box, which he deposited on the carpet in the center of the room. Then he walked over, leaned across the desk and carefully pried the handgun out of Darius Wynter's hand. He relocked the safety catch and placed the weapon to one side with a bored, indifferent expression. He stood back and undipped a small, cylindrical instrument from his waist and waved it slowly around the room. He consulted a small dial fixed to one end and nodded, satisfied. He kneeled and pressed several switches on the small black box on the floor. A faint vibration shook the room and blurred the outlines of the furniture and two men inside it -- the effect lasted for several seconds before the room returned to normal. Darius Wynter blinked. His lungs relaxed and expelled the air they had held since his seizure. His eyes focused first on his empty hands and then on his visitor. "Oh," he said. "So it's you." He had failed again. Giving the impression of a man suddenly too weary, he leaned forward and buried his face in his hands. The tips of his fingers dug into his forehead and then worked slowly down his cheeks. "Fm sorry," he said. "I didn't mean -- " "That's all right," the young man said quickly. He was required to appear solicitous, but his conditioned and supposedly cheery smile had a facile look. "We've been watching you for days." Wynter looked genuinely surprised. "So long?" The young man tapped the end IF of the cylindrical instrument in his gloved left hand. "You've been giving off quite a high potential for some time. We knew you'd try something eventually." "But I had no idea -- " "Until a few moments ago, when you picked up the gun?" Darius nodded. The young man's smug expression became suddenly grave. "I think it only fair to caution you that I'm still.getting a rather high probability indication." He raised his instrument significantly. "Of course it sometimes takes time for these things to die down. Personally, I would advise you to try and grab hold of yourself as quickly as possible." Darius Wynter managed a convincing shudder. With some effort he pulled himself together. "If you don't mind," he said, rising from his desk, "I'll pour myself a drink." "Go ahead, Mr. Wynter. You probably need one." Dapius waved open his wall cabinet and poured himself a good strong whisky with surprisingly steady hands. He turned around. "Could I offer you something?" The young man shook his head. "Sorry, Mr. Wynter, but you see we have rules against -- " "Yes -- yes of course. I understand. How stupid of me." He brought the elegant crystal decanter back with him and set it down on the wide desk. His eyes skipped quickly past the beautiful little handgun the Follower had left there. He managed to look both guilty and embarrassed at the same time. "You've had a go at this before, haven't you?" the young man observed. D arius shrugged, "if you've been watching me for as long as you say you have you'll have familiarized yourself with my file." "That I have, sir. You've made seven previous attempts to take your life, most of them rather clumsy and well telegraphed. I'm glad to say." "Yes," Darius agreed, a trifle wistfully, 'Hhere was always a Follower handy." "Well, that's what you pay your premiums for, isn't it?" The young man made no effort to conceal his contempt. Darius declined to comment. Instead he resumed his seat in the well-upholstered desk chair and looked thoughtfully around the room. "I had no idea this room was bugged." The young man smiled smugly. "I suppose you thought that your insurers wouldn't have heard about this place, that you would be able to sneak away up here without anybody's knowing? But what use is a comprehensive coverage if you can cheat like that? Trudential is, Mr. Wynter, the most experienced insurer in the business: we never leave anything to chance.We're thorough, Mr. Wynter, and that's why we have the best record in the business." He moved his portable meter around while he spoke; he was still getting a faint threshold signal and this made him wary. His careless arrograhce annoyed Darius. "How old are you?" "Twenty-seven," the Follower replied guardedly. "Why do you ask?" Darius shrugged and sipped his drink. "The impetuousness of youth interests me. Do you like your job?" The young man made, a vague sort of gesture which might be taken to mean yes. "I see. Well. I suppose you would have to, wouldn't you? And I suppose you're chasing a little slice of immortality along with the rest of us?". The word was a joke. Rejuvenation was a costly and unpredictable business, difficult to discipline. Some recipients had barely managed to scrape through another hundred years, while others had endured the entire span of two and a quarter centuries since the introduction of the anti-agathics. Everything depended on the individual metabolism and how it reacted to the drugs. The techniques improved every year and the ultimate goal was a golden, predictable longevity for every person in the known universe -- according to his means. And there lay the rub. Sometimes, when his lonely mind was wrapped in cynicism, Darius found it amusing that, in this age of material abundance, the accumulation of worthless baubles and artifacts had given way to a universal scratching for another few years of life and, as always, the prize went to the richest. The young man didn't answer, but this didn't worry Darius -- his words had been an observation, not a direct question. He saw a flicker of greed appear self-consciously in the Follower's cold blue eyes, but it was soon erased by a look of professional aloofness. "How long have you been a Follower?" Darius asked. "This is my first year." But he answered off-handedly. His eyes were intent upon his meter and he seemed disturbed. He looked up. "Mr. Wynter, I must mention again that I am still getting a rather high probability index on your emotional register." Darius' tolerant face framed an understanding smile. "I wouldn't worry about that. I mean, if I'm still determined to kill myself, then the observation circuits which your people have so cunningly concealed in this room will very soon throw me into stasis. Isn't that correct?" IF The young man nodded, but did not seem able to shake his uneasiness. Preventing people like Darius Wynter from taking their life was one thing -- the emotional registers built into the house monitored the degree of the subject's depression and were always ready to forestall any self-destructive act -- but it was also his sworn duty to safe-guard the mental health of his client. "I urge you to relax, Mr. Wynter. I will summon a therapist and -- " Darius waved a deprecating hand. "That won't be necessary. I assure you; I have never felt better in my life. And I do wish you'd stop Fiddling with that thing. It's probably registering something left over from a few moments ago. Strange, but it already seems ages ago. You shouldn't worry about my making another attempt -- after all, ninety-nine percent of all suicide attempts are decisions of the moment, are they not? And once that particular moment is past the mind has a chance to reconsider its motives." He smiled and picked up the ornate little handgun and held it fondly. The young man tensed. "Don't worry," Darius laughed. "As you very well know, the moment I turn this beautiful little weapon against myself -- or make any other move that threatens my existence -- the circuits will apply stasis. But note -- as long as I keep it pointed away from myself they do not react." The gun was now pointing in the general direction of the Follower. "Take a quick peek at your meter," Darius directed. "Is it still registering strong depression, suggesting suicidal tendencies?" T he young man shook his head. He was conscious of the deadly weapon pointing vaguely in his direction and puzzled by the contradictions provided by his meter. He was getting a reading that vacillated between minor depression and sudden elation -- the latter, he knew from experience and training, was the feeling of relief that enveloped the subject when he realized that his life had been saved and his ridiculous act subverted. "So why don't you relax?" Darius suggested. Mischievous humor danced across his face. "There's nothing to worry about. And I'm rather enjoying your company at the moment. Tell me; haven't you ever wondered why there's such a high incidence of attempted suicide among the immortals?" This was the name that had somehow become attached, albeit romantically, to the world's leading industrialists, politicians and artists and all those who had managed to survive, like Darius Wynter, longer than anybody else because they were wealthy enough to maintain their rejuvenation treatments for more that two hundred years. The young man said nothing, only stared at him with a mixture of puzzlement and uneasiness. "But surely," Darius went on, "you must have wondered, at some time or another why we, who have lived for so long and enjoyed every boon life knows, should suddenly want to end it. And try over and over again. Doesn't the duality puzzle you -- that we court our own deaths unpredictably and at the same time take out this costly insurance to guard against dying? If 'immortality' is worth so much wealth and effort, why do we seek to abuse it when we have it?" His face softened. Some of the humor drained from his eyes and he studied the little weapon in his hands thoughtfully, his fingers caressing the delicate filigree. "It isn't boredom, you know. That's the popular misconception. God knows there's enough I haven't done to keep me occupied for quite a few centuries yet. Absolute wealth requires absolute management -- I haven't nearly as much time to myself as I would like. Yet to live forever I must manufacture wealth to make this possible -- you follow?" A flicker of interest showed in the young man's eyes -- and a little confusion as well. Darius pressed on, warming to his topic. "So it isn't boredom. Rather, it's a basic conflict within ourselves. It's been there since man first became intelligent and adapted to his world -- and iCs been cruelly accentuated by the boon of longevity. From the moment we recognized the existence of time we have walked hand in hand with futility -- the anti-agathics have also given us more time to consider the dim worthlessness of achievement. But that is only the consideration of our intellect -- the animal part of us will cling tenaciously to life for want of a suitable substitute. The intellect cries out that all activity is dross, that nothing lasts forever, that even the weariest river flows somewhere to sea; but the primitive, unthinking part of us demands that we endure. "That is the struggle -- to endure. And in the past most of us have. It is the prospect of immortality that makes life so dull for us -- and sometimes the intellect wins and takes it upon itself to end the dreadful duality. At such moments we try to take #ur lives -- but the animal in us reasserts itself if we can be prevented from taking the final, irrevocable step and are pulled back abruptly to the real world. And we are again prepared to cling to life with renewed tenacity. But most of that you must already know. The information is included in your training." The young man agreed that this was so. IF "You must realize, then, that ninety-nine percent of your calls are merely attempted suicides. Your intervention allows them the catharsis of decision and ensures their gratitude -- but what about that other one per cent?" The young man thought for a moment. "They are, by definition, insane," he replied. "Their desire to take their own lives is not so much a product of depression but of a mind which has reasoned itself out of existence." "Quite so," Darius agreed. He waved the little laser slowly back and forth, always keeping it directed in the general direction of the Follower. "And tell me, what are the symptoms of this sort of mind? I mean, how are they registered on that little meter you have there?" The young, man licked suddenly dry lips. "By -- by an unnaturally high elation." His eyes remained Fixed on the dial in front of him. He looked suddenly afraid. D arius leaned forward and rested his elbows on the desk. The barrel of the gun now pointed unwaveringly at the young man. "If you're so keen to kill yourself," the Follower said, "why not simply cancel your premium? Then you could take your life without fear of intervention." He was talking for time and Darius knew it. "But to do so would spoil the game," he said. "Game? What game?" "The game of so-called immortality. To cancel my policy would ensure that the next time my intellectual despair got the better of me there would be nobody around to stop me when I opted for oblivion. And that would be dreadful. You see, this animal we have inside us is old and wise and every bit as determined to endure as our fiendish intellect is to dispose of us -- and in most cases it will have its way." "It's all a farce," the young man blustered. "You know you'll never succeed. You just play out this little game to assuage your ego." "No, that's not correct. You see, there's always the chance -- small, I must admit -- that our Follower won't be on hand at the exact second that he's needed. Or that the observation circuits will malfunction -- or something equally stimulating will occur. Those have happened occasionally -- haven't they?" The young man looked uncomfortable. "I believe so. Once or twice, perhaps -- no more." "No more? But no matter. Even those few instances are sufficient to bring an element of chance into the situation. I'll admit that the odds are astronomically in your favor -- but that little uncertainty remains and gives spice to the game. It introduces the fascinating concept that one's death does ultimately rest in the arms of blind chance -- a prospect that fascinates the intellect as much as it repels the animal part of the mind." An expression of pain passed briefly across the face of the immortal. "Oh, I really am sorry. I shouldn't be talking like this to one as young as yourself. To you the universe must seem a marvelous place and life itself a constant source of pleasure." The young man's troubled face denied this. "How terribly thoughtless of me to introduce this dark philosophy in to your aspiring young mind. But let me caution you, my lad -- do not covet longevity. It is a boon with barbs in its tail and these will dig down ijjto your heart and tear out your hope, your dreams and your confidence. The ancients were right -- three score years and ten is time enough to consider the mocking ghost of time; more than that is a burden which a man cannot bear, because he was made to be mortal. We mock the gods when we outlive our allotted span -- and their wrath is devious." The young man had inched slowly back towards the glowing portal behind him while Darius talked. "Don't do that, please," the immortal directed. "If you take one more step I will kill you where you stand." The Follower frozd to the carpet, stunned. Darius tightened his finger across the firing stud of the handweapon. His hand was steady and the expression on his face was determined. "Do I frighten you? Did you ever consider this, that I might take your life?" He smiled crookedly. "The circuits in these walls wouldn't stop me if I did. After all, they are only programed to prevent me from taking my own life, not from taking someone else's." With a great effort the young man pulled himself together. "I think you'd better put that down, sir. You need help. I'll call a therapist and -- " "No you won't." "But, sir -- you need help! You need care and attention and -- " "I need nothing of the sort," Darius interrupted. "Tell me, young man, is there any way you could prevent me taking your life, if I wished?" His Follower said nothing. But Darius noted with satisfaction that his right hand had strayed to the wide steel belt around his waist and was hovering nervously over one of the bright switches. "I know for a fact," Darius pointed out, "that you can generate a fairly effective force field from that belt of yours -- adequate enough to repel the more commonplace energies of our Technology but hardly likely to disIF place the concentrated output of a finely tuned laser -- " The young man's face telegraphed a look of pure terror. His right hand twitched and snapped down against the switch on his belt in a desperate gamble. An expression of wild exultance leaped into Darius Wynter's eyes and he pressed the firing stud on the beautiful handgun with intense satisfaction. He had surreptitiously adjusted the small dial on the bridge of the weapon while he talked, A wide beam of energy reached out for the terrified Follower. His protective screen went up a fraction of a second before the ravenous force leaped at him -- a fact the immortal had insured by calculating his firing delay to the exact fraction of a second -- and the charge ricocheted away from the feeble -- but, in this case, effective enough -- shield. The widely beamed energy bounced back from the protected figure and raced toward the wide window looking out over the timeless sea. Darius Wynter caught the full force of the charge calmly. His desk was engulfed and incinerated in an instant and the life was torn from his weary body and blasted out through a great rent in the window. stunned and frightened Follower saw the burned and disfigured body of his client poised in an incongruous attitude. The protec-' tive circuits had whirled into action much too late to save the life of Darius Wynter but they had thrown this dreadful husk into stasis and kept it in position, sitting in the charred ruin of a chair that would have collapsed under his living weight, and surrounded by the still smoldering ashes of his desk. The young man stood in a state of shock for some time. He was overcome by a terrible sense of failure that was somehow related to something more personal than the mere loss of a client. Eventually he shook himself out of this state and walked over to survey the mocking corpse. Its dreadful charred face looked back at him. A cold wind howled in the space where the Window had been, but was powerless to move the lightest ash in the room. The young man shuddered. And then he kneeled for the second time to activate a switch on the small black box he had left on the floor. The room shimmered and dissolved as the stasis effect was' canceled out. The grotesque figure of the dead man collapsed slowly into a soft pile of ashes on the charred floor, where the mournful sea wind stirred it gently and rolled away the mocking smile of triumph.  He fattened on knowledge -- until consumed by a greater wisdom!   edge," said the salesmanthing. Claude Mabry looked all around his room: mildewed wallpaper, broken linoleum, dirty long underwear slung over a chair that had a weak leg, the clock face that had been cracked and repaired so many times with scotch tape that he could hardly see it said #:#. "I'm smart ertough for me," he said. "There's such a thing as being too smart for your own good." "That't right," said the salesman-thing, "and there's such a thing as being so smart you have to wash dishes down at Stan's Chili Bowl to earn enough to live -- here." Claude could not reply. The whole thing reminded him of the Bible: a snake or whatever it was dressed up like a man, offering "knowledge" -- it just didn't make sense. "Look, I don't mean to be unpleasant," said the salesman. "But we Guzz are a hell of a lot more powerful and a hell of a lot smarter than your species. If we'd wanted to, we could have vaporized your whole planet -- but it's not our way. So when somebody comes offering to make you smart, don't knock it." Claude wanted to rip off that grinning, false mansuit and see what the Guzz looked like. He half-rose, then sank back again and looked at the floor. "If you're so good, why do you want to do anything for me?" "I don't want to do anything for you. I voted to turn Earth into a bird refuge. But we have a democratic form of government and the majority wanted to make your kind fit citizens to share the universe with us." "All right, how do I know you can make me smart?" The salesman opened his briefcase and took out a handful of bright brochures. "Don't take my word for it that we can make you one of the smartest men on Earth," he said. "Don't take it from me that being smart is our plan. Thousands have tried it already. Have a look." He handed Claude a folder showing full-color pictures of quiet scholars, white-coated scientists, dignified judges and beaming businessmen. Their testimonials were capped with red headlines: couldn't read own name -- "hated arithmetic" "dumb ox" months! "But -- what would I study?" "Everything" The salesman produced another slick booklet and began turning the pages, showing Claude pictures of happy housewives and hairy-handed laborers reading heavy volumes, farmers peering through microscopes and grannies using slide rules. "We call our system the Interface Way. Every person we accept must study at least two subjects intensively. If the subjects are unrelated, all the better. We mix mathematics with literature, we throw theoretical physics at a medical specialist, we give the mathematician theology." "What would I get?" "If we accepted you, you'd be tested. Then we'd know." "What do you mean, if?" Claude felt he had just been offered a million-dollars, but at the word "if" it had shrunk to about a nickle The stranger, sensing his anxiety, spoke soothingly. "Don't worry too much about that. We won't be testing your I.Q. or previous knowledge. In fact, the less of either, the better. We want people who haven't had a chance, people who feel useless because the sleeping genius within them has never been awakened. What do you say?" "I don't know. What would it cost me?" "All the money in the world couldn't buy you a better education pal. But all it costs is your signature." "Well -- oh, hell, why not?" "Why not?" echoed the salesman, handing him a pen. Claude signed a few forms in various colors and the salesman gave him a copy of each. "Claude," he said, "you've just made your first intelligent decision." T he Guzz had pretty well taken over Earth, in every way. Guzz-developed gadgets were in every home. Clergymen thanked the Lord from their pulpits that the Guzz were not warlike or vicious but a truly democratic -- ah -- people. The government made daily announcements of new Guzz gifts to humanity. They quietly disarmed the nuclear powers, they made efficient clean-air and sewage-disposal systems for our cities, they introduced new food sources and birthcontrol plans in Asia. Hardly a government bureau in the world had not been approached by the Guzz with a suggestion or a gift -- and these aliens used no stronger forces than tact and kindly persuasion. The only disagreeable thing about them was the way they looked -- both at home and in Earth-drag. On their own planet (or so it was said, for no one had yet visited them) the Guzz were disagreeably vermiform. Here, so as not to spook the natives, they wore human forms of plastic. IF Their movements in these were natural enough, but they all looked alike. As far as most people, including Claude, were concerned, the Guzz were just so many talking store-window dummies. T he first box that arrived was a table-top computer equipped with keyboard, microphone, speaker and visual display screen. That night when he returned from Stan's Chili Bowl, Claude lay awake looking at all that gleaming, complicated junk and wondering if he might have made a mistake in even hoping... Next day three packages arrived. The first contained books and a sheaf of documents: a certification that Claude Mabry was eligible for this correspondence course, more copies of the various forms he'd signed -- and a booklet entitled: Welcome, Future Genius! The government of Guzz and your own government wish to take this opportunity to welcome you... conditions and bylaws... You may not always see the reasons for instructions given you in this course, but they are necessary to ensure efficient use of your time. The enclosed books are for Lesson One. The books required for each lesson will be provided with the lesson. At various points in the program you will be asked to study them thoroughly. Claude glanced at the titles of the books: The Interpretation of Dreams, Sigmund Freud; Verbal Behavior, B.F. Skinner; Towards Information Retrieval, Fairthorne; were only a few. The dream book looked interesting but inside, like all the others, it was full of long-winded sentences that didn't mean anything. The second package contained a tape cassette titled: Program for Lesson One and simple instructions for loading it into the teaching computer. As soon as Claude could do so, he switched on the machine. He might have expected it to give him a problem, to register the fact that it was turned on, or at least to ask his name, but it did none of these things. Instead, it politely requested him to eat a sandwich. Claude scratched his head. The Guzz had to be joking. He could imagine them watching him right now, laughing at his stupidity. So this was the big learning course! So this... He remembered the third package and tore it open. Inside was a cellophane-wrapped sandwich. THbugh Claude turned it over and over, he could see only one difference between this and any other cellophane-wrapped sandwich: Inside the wrapper was a plain printed name slip. But instead of "ham and cheese" or "peanut butter and grape jelly" it simply read: Eat me. The bread was a little stale but he enjoyed the salami or parasalami inside. An hour later he correctly answered a request to explain how and why dreams were subject to syntactical rules. The answer ,as obvious. Two hours later he had read Ayer's The Problem of Knowledge, read it at skimming speed because it was already perfectly familiar to him. A lesson or two later Claude had gone through about fifty difficult books without any trouble. He progressed rapidly through the programs, though it did not seem like progress at all: he simply knew what he was doing. Using Fourier analysis to solve problems in electronics seemed something he had always known, just as he had always realized the gross truth of Newtonian mechanics and the finer truth of quantum mechanics, the position of Hubert Van Eyck in Flemish painting, the syllogistic properties of an Andrew Marvell poem, the flaws in the historical theories of Spengler and Toynbee -- or for that matter, how to prepare sauce ozene with seven ingredients. Scraps of learning, areas of learning, even whole complex structures of learning were suddenly his. Having learned, he worked. By the fourth lesson Claude had gone through Godel's proof of the necessary incompletness of mathematical theorems and picked holes in Lucas's application of this to mechanical devices. He had also put forth an aesthetic theory understandable by perhaps ten men, refutable by no more than one. He had nearly destroyed mathematical economics, and devised a tentative translating machine. He was hardly aware that these things had not been done before, nor was he really aware of the transition from his job at the Chili Bowl to a research fellowship at a prominent university. T he transition came about from his publication of various monographs in journals, the names of which he knew only from footnotes in the books he was skimming. Some of the monographs came back. He had sent them to wrong addresses, or to journals long out of print. Others, like his "Queueing Theory Applied to Neural Activity" and "On Poetic Diction," became classics. Men with tweedy manners but sharp suits and clean attache cases came to see him. They sat in the steamy, oily kitchen of Stao's Chili Bowl and talked with him about quasar explanations, new codes of international law and logic mechanisms. True, many prodiIF gies were springing up now that the Guzz offered their massive home study program. But for the time being, genius was still something universities fought over. And so, almost without knowing it (he was thinking of other things), Claude Mabry gave Stan his notice, packed his T-shirts and blue jeans and entrained for Attica University. He remembered only isolated facts about this trip: sending a change-of-address card to the Guzz; losing his ticket; not bringing enough pager (and so alighting from the train at Attica, where University officials were waiting to greet him, his hands so full of slips of toilet paper on which were penciled notes toward a theory of history that he could not accept the handshakes of these venerables). Without comment he settled into his new life and went on working. From time to time he wondered what was in the sandwich that came with each lesson. A wonder drug that unlocked hidden knowledge. that lay "sleeping" within him? An intelligence accelerator? Whatever it was, it was essential to the process. The only time he'd tried studying without it, Claude had floundered among symbols that almost made sense. He wondered, too, about the Guzz. The little he learned about their planet and culture (in the final lesson) whetted his appetite for more. He longed to know everything about them, almost to become one of them: They alone would understand what he was doing. It was becoming clear that his colleagues at the university considered him some kind of freak -- he would not wear a suit, he could not converse about departmental politics and he was inhumanly intelligent. Claude ordered all the information on the Guzz he could get. This proved to be a slim volume by a second-rate anthropologist who had interviewed a few of the aliens. Claude skimmed it and began a treatise of his own. "Despite the advanced 'democracy' of the Guzz," he wrote, "they retain a few oddly 'primitive,' even sacramental habits." There was a knock at the door. The standard face of a Guzz looked around the frame, saw that he was alone and walked its standard body into the office. Without saying anything, it came over and struck hiiti on the forehead. Twitching, Claude slipped to the floor. The visitor busied itself with a set of plastic bags. The fallen man was muttering. Bending lower, the man-shape or...?" "Right you are!" boomed the Guzz. "Yes, we are analogous to your planarian worms -- so, of course, are you -- and we can transmit behavior genetically." He fished a long knife from one bag and tested its blade against a false thumb. "Of course our genes need help. Obviously our -- I mean to include your -- children do not learn much from their parents' genes. But these same genes, properly assimilated -- " "I knew it!" Claude croaked, getting up on one elbow. The blow had stunned him, but still the machinery of his mind ground on. With an estatic expression he said, "The old taboos against eating the king, eating the old man, the sage, the father yes?" "Check." With a hearty chuckle the visitor kneeled by Claude's side and felt for the carotid artery. "Those ridiculous taboos have kept your species back hundreds of thousands of years. We're just now making up the lost time for you." "The sandwich meat -- " "Housewives, mechanics, professional people -- all the people in that brochure you saw. Just think of it!" He waved the knife oratorically, and the plastic face turned up, as if gazing at a vista. "One genius provides three thousand sandwiches, each capable of providing -- with no wastage -- part of the education for one more genius! Thus learning will transform your whole species -- you will become as gods!" The Guzz returned his attention to the matter at hand. He poised the knife. "Superman," nfurmured the genius. "On white or rye."  Section #. Title #. United States Code). #. Date of filing: October #. #. #. Title of publication: Worlds of If. #. Frequency of issue: bimonthly. #. Location of known ofHces of publication: # Est # Street, New York, N.Y. #. #. Names and addresses of the publisher, editor and managing editor. Publisher: Arnold E. Abramson, # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #, Editor: Ejler Jakobsson, # Elast # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Managing Editor: JudyLynn Benjamin, # East # Street, Known bondholders, mortgagees and other security holders owning or holding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other securities: None. #. A. Total no. copies printed (net press run). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. B. Paid circulation. #. Sales through dealers and carriers, street vendors and counter sales. Average no. copies each issue during preceeding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. #. Mail subscriptions. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. C. Total paid circulation. Average no. copies each issue during preceeding # months: #. Single issue nearest to Hling date: #. D. Free distribution (including samples) by mail, carrier or other means. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. E. Total distribution (sum of C and D). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. F. Office use, left-over, unaccounted, spoiled after printing. Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to filing date: #. G. Total (sum of E and F -- should equal net press run shown in A). Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months: #. Single issue nearest to hling date: #. I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete: Lawrence C. Murphy, Subscription Director. The tricorn Pet S. We cash books of imaginative writing from all types... A Merry Christmas  to All Writers Everywhere I The kvcftf no'tl of I  hwi utW I Lester del Rey Hi V i    r The Science Fiction Book Club invites you to take Any # books erSal wAw !  with trial membership Including, if you wish, #: A Arthur C. Clarke Hunting an alien "presence" in the universe, # men and a computer gone psycho tic stumble upon the incredible secret of mankind's birth -- only to trigger the cosmic "booby-trap" that could spell Its death. A controversial best-seller by the most acclaimed science fiction writer of our era. Pub. ed. # #: A Space Odyssey bst-slling nevl and award-winning cinema spectacular Science Fiction has grown up. Have you kept up? A new literary genre has come of age -- your age. Mature. Sophisticated. Provocative. And respected. You are invited to explore it now under an amazing trial offer. Take any # volumes on this page (worth up to # in original publishers' editions) for only #, plus shipping and handling with trial membership.  New club selections will be described to you in advance each month. Choose from new works of fiction -- and fact -- by such acclaimed authors as Bradbury, Serling, Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein and others. Volumes are full-length, hard-bound -- and uncut. Though they sell for as much as #, # and more in their original publishers' editions, club members pay only # plus shipping. fYou may choose an optional extra-value selection at a slightly higher price.) Your sole obligation is to accept as few as four books during the coming year. Cancel any time thereafter. Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, N.Y. #. i Please accept my application for membership and rush the  I # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me i # plus a modest shipping and handling charge for all I I three. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin, Things  to Come which describes coming selection. If I do not  I wish to receive the monthly selection or prefer an alteri nate, I simply give instructions on the form provided. For I I each book I accept, I pay #, plus shipping and hani dling. Occasional extra-value selections are priced slightly  I higher. I need take only # books in the coming year and i I may resign any time thereafter.  I ductory package, I may return it in # days and member I ship will be canceled. I will owe nothing... I Print I Name I Address  I City State #. Beyond the Beyond, by Poul Anderson. # novellas by HufK) Award winner. About scientists, pirates, "loners." #. Dnnicrons Visions. Anthology of # original stories never before in #. The Left Hand of Darkness, by Ursula K. LeGuin. Finding love -- in a "Unisex" world! Nebula Award winner. Pub. ed. S# #. Childhood's End. Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. "Wildly fantastic!" Atlantic. Pnb. ed. # #. Downwnrd to the Earth, by Robert Silverberg. Alien planet with alluring secret of rebirth. #. Nightfall and Other Stories, by Isaac Asimov. # probing tales by this best-selling science fiction author. Pub. ed. # Electric! by Ray Bradbury. # maior piecesBradbury's first collection in five years. Pub. ed. S# #. The Fonndation Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov. The ends of the galaxy revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. # #. One Step from Earth, by Harry Harrison. # tales in matter "transmission." Mars "manshot"; new earth race. Pub. ed. # I If under #, parent must sign here I ##J #. Stand on Zanzibar, by John Brunner. Life in U.S. # years from now. Hugo Award Winner. # pages. Pub. ed. # #. Stranger In a Strange Land, by Robert A. Heinlein. He knew the Martian love secretand it spelled his doom. Pub. ed. # #. Three for Tomorrow. Novellas by Silverberg. Zelazny, Blish. Foreword by Arthur C. Clarke. Pub. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in Canada. Printed in U.S.A.  IH the magazine . of alternatives ' yj  The Anthony Boucher Memorial Anthology of Fantasy and Science Fiction As editor, writer, critic and friend, Anthony Boucher affected the lives of a considerable number of people. When he died in #, some of them decided to create a unique memorial -- twin anthologies of the kinds of stories he had been most closely identified with. Beagle Books is proud to publish the paperback reprints of-these antholoqies, beginning with Vol. #: Stories by Poul Anderson, Isaac Asimov, Ray Bradbury, R. Bretnor, Grendel Briarton, Fredric Brown, John Brunner, Doris Pitkin Buck, Mildred Clingerman, Avram Davidson, Jon De Cles, Miriam Allen DeFord, Richard Deming, Gordon R. Dickson, Harlan Ellison, Philip Jos# Farmer. Vol. #: Stories by Horace B. Fyfe, Randall Garrett, Damon Knight, Kris Margaret St. Clair, Howard Schoenfeld, Robert Silverberg, Jack Vance, Richard Wilson. appear in two volumes. # each wherever paperback books are sold. The Beagle science fiction and fantasy list also includes: The Arkham Edition of H. P. Lovecraft Lady Cynthia Asquith, ed. Edward Wellen #I Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. # US Morch-AprH, #I Vol. #, No. # Issue # IjUr Jakobsson, Editor Lostor do! Roy, Foaturo Editor Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Franc L. Roggori, Art Diroctor Jay Tunick, Circulation Diroctor L. C. Murphy, Subscription Diroctor Jack Gaughan, Associato Art Diroctor tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, Prosidont. Main offices: # East # Stroot, Now York, N.Y. #. #C par copy. #-issuo subscription: # in tho United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Univorsal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. Tho publishor assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. Dear Editor: I have been meaning to protest for some time, and finally got around to it. In the Hue and Cry column in IF, why don't you publish complete addresses ? It would hardly take up enough time or paper to be a bother, and the lack oj address is occasionally infuriating. For a blatant example, in the May-June issue you published a letter from one Brian Hval, who wanted information on organizing a local science fiction club. Since you provided no address to which information could be sent, why did you bother publishing his letter at all? It was certainly no help to Mr. Hval; okay, you published one reply, which was too general to be much help. With a published address, he might well have bombarded with information -- I'm certainly not going to send items specifically directed to one person to your magazine in the hopes that you'll publish them, and other fans feel the same way. They write directly or they don't write. If Ted White can publish complete addresses, why can't you? Not everyone wants his address published -- many people object to being targeted for mail-order solicitations, doorbell ringers or someone who just wants to argue. Mailing lists have become a marketable commodity and I don't want Hue and Cry so used. This policy will continue in effect, but you do raise a point. Let's try it this way -- contributors who want their addresses published may request that we do so and we'll try to oblige. Starting with you. Your comments continue:... What's all the alleged editorial confusion about Monarch being an ham series? The story fits, chronologically, parallel to Equals Four, which you ran in your JulyA ugust issue, with the ending of Monarch coming somewhere in the middle of Equals Four -- some time between the time the Jann leaves the observation booth and the time it returns to it. What's so enigmatic about that? Don't you read the stories you publish? Sincerely, ' Robert Coulson Route # Hartford City, Ind. Gentlemen: Monarch was a good story. I didn't read the first story or two of the sequence. The stories have seemed lighthearted, but there just is no way to be lighthearted about a slave-labor camp! To say the least, that was grim. Now, about the ending -- it's not enigmatic at all. The next-to-last story of this series, so far, was Equals Four, roughly simultaneous with this story (excluding trips to the past, of robot presenting him with Judy. The robot rescued her -- so the story ties in. Sincerely, Michael N. Tierstein Brooklyn, N. Y. ( Continued on page #) IF Do you have the "faults" that could mean you were born to be a writer? v Writers usually hate to be "labeled," but there's no denying most of them share certain characteristics. They're dreamers. Loners. Bookworms. Too impractical, intense, idealistic. If you have "faults" like these, remember they may be the most creative parts of your personality. They could be a clear indication of a gift. If you have such a gift, make the most of it. Hours you may be spending in timetive recreation. In the writer's world, you can let your imagination roam free, doing what comes naturally to you. A unique writing school But where do you begin? It's really very simple -- we teach; you learn. Here at Famous Writers School, we've created a truly unusual writing program that comes to you -- right in your home. The program shortens the years of trial-and-error; helps you avoid the failures of so many beginning writers. It's more like a shared adventure than a course. find the kind of line-by-line editing established writers get from their own editors -- plus a detailed letter of suggestions. No one can promise success. But with training like this, our students have sold to over # publications. Think about it. Could you convert your "faults" into a gift for writing? Find out by sending for our free Aptitude Test. We'll evaluate it and return it to you without charge or obligation. FW   i    #    Vh  An educational service of Famous Writers School Dept. W-#, Westport Connecticut # I want to know if I have writing aptitude worth developing. Please mail me without obligation, your Aptitude Test and illustrated brochure. ivii . Mrs Age Miss Circle one and please print You get individualized training All of our instructors are working editors or writers, who know what editors are looking for. While an instructor is working on your manuscript, he gives it his full attention. And when you get it back, you'll Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. When you're choosing between living and dying -- odds are all-important! novelette I morosely through the forward transparency of Module Five. The vehicle was traveling at a height of a few feet -- and at its maximum survey speed of five hundred knots -- across a flat brown desert. Apart from the plume of dust which roiled constantly in the rear screen there was no sign of movement anywhere on no sign of life. "Eight dead worlds in succession," he grumbled. "Why do we never find life?" "Because we work for the Cartographical Service," Dave Surgenor told him, shifting to a more comfortable position in the module's other seat. "If this were an inhabited world we wouldn't be allowed to buzz all over it like this." "I know, but I'd like to feel there was some chance of making contact with somebody. Anybody." "I would suggest," Surgenor said peacefully, "that you join the diplomatic service." He closed his eyes with every appearance of a man about to drift into a contented after-dinner sleep. "I'm indebted to you." Targett glanced resentfully at the older man's relaxed profile. He had a deep respect for Surgenor and his vast experience in the Service, but at the same time he had no desire to emulate Surgenor's career. It took a special kind of mind to withstand an endless succession of treks across bleak, alien globes, and Targett was aware that he did not have it. The thought of growing old in the Service filled him with a dismay that strengthened his resolve to make some money quickly and get out while he was young enough to enjoy spending it. He had even decided on where he would have his fling. Next furlough he was going to visit Earth and try his luck on some of the legendary race courses there, the ones where it had all started. A gambler had no trouble finding facilities on any of the Federation's inhabited worlds -- but actually to stand on the historic turf on Santa Anita or Ascot... "Dave," he said wistfully, "weren't you in the Service in the old days when they used to allow the modules to break the search pattern and race back to the ship for the last five hundred miles?" Surgenor's eyelids flickered. "The old days? That was only a year or so ago." "That's the old days in this line of business." Targett glanced at the instruments on the control panel, which told him there were less than three thousand miles between Module Five's present position and the planet's north pole, where the Sarafand was waiting. The mother ship had disgorged its six surIF vey modules at the south pole and -- solely under the control of the the six modules to traverse the planet with their geodesic sensors. "We used to race back to the ship, but it led to trouble once and they introduced a regulation specifically forbidding it." Surgenor sounded more interested in getting to sleep. "Did you make any money out of it?" Targett persisted. "By laying odds on the winner?" "It wouldn't have worked." Surgenor yawned theatrically, making his point about not wanting to talk. "Every module had exactly the same chance -- one in six." "Not exactly the same chance," Targett said, warming to his subject. "I happen to know that Aesop tolerates a dispersion of up to twenty miles when he's setting the Sarafand down at a pole -- and if it worked out right at both ends one module could have a forty-mile advantage over its opposite number. All you would have to do to set up a profitable book would be -- " "Mike," Surgenor interrupted tiredly, "did you ever stop to consider that if you poured all that ingenuity into a legitimate business enterprise you'd be so rich you wouldn't need to gamble?" Targett was appalled. "What has getting rich got to do with gambling?" "Is that not the whole idea?" "Go back to sleep, Dave -- I'm sorry I disturbed you." Targett rolled his eyes skyward and settled down to scowling through the forward transparency again. A range of low hills had appeared a few miles to the right, but otherwise the brown deserts of Horta had been slumped in his seat for perhaps ten minutes when the module's computer -- which was actually a sub-unit of Aesop -- made an annoucement. "Receiving atypical data," it droned. "Receiving atypical data." V- details," Targett said, nudging Surgenor. "Bearing two point sixty-three, cosine increasing with module displacement. Range fifty-oiie point eighty-one miles, tangent decreasing with module displacement. Metallic objects on planetary surface. First estimate of number -- three hundred sixty-three. Concentration and consistency of metallic elements indicate refining. Analysis of reflected radiation indicates machine-finished exteriors." Targett's heart began to jolt powerfully. "Did you hear that, Dave? What does it mean?" "It sounds to me as though you've got your wish -- those can't be anything but artifacts." Surgenor's voice betrayed no excitment, but Targett noticed he was now sitting upright as he made a bearing check. "According to the reading they must be in those hills on the right." . Targett scanned the slowly unfolding slopes trembling in the yellowish heat haze created by Horta. "It looks pretty dead over there." "The whole planet is dead -- otherwise Aesop would have noticed something during the preliminary orbital survey." "Well, let's go over and take a look." Surgenor shook his head. "Aesop won't agree to our breaking the search pattern unless there's an emergency. It distorts his world map." "What?" Targett bounced impatiently in his seat. "Who cares about the world map? Are we supposed to run straight on and ignore a real archelogical find? I tell you, Dave, if -- " He stopped speaking as he noticed Surgenor's smile. "You were doing your Oldest Member bit again." "I guess I was." Surgenor nodded. "Don't worry about passing up a find. We aren't archeologists, but there's a provision in Survey Regulations for this kind of thing. As soon as we get back to the Sarafand Captain Aesop will send a couple of modules out again for a closer look." "Everybody won't be in on it?" "If Aesop thinks it's important he might bring the ship down here." "But this has got to be important." Targett gestured helplessly towards the hills drifting by on his right. "Hundreds of machine-finished objects just lying on the surface. What could they be?" "Who knows? My guess is that a ship put down here, possibly for repairs, and dumped a load of unwanted canisters." "Oh?" Such a prosaic explanation had not occurred to Targett, and he fought to mask his disappointment. "Recently?" "Depends on what you mean by recent. The Sarafand was the first Federationship to enter the Horta system -- and it's been fourthousand years or more since the old White Empire withdrew from this cluster, so -- " "Four-thousand years!" Targett experienced a brief headiness strangely reminiscent of the sensation which had once come over him -- the time he had brought off an eight-throw antimartingale on the gaming tables of Parador. This was a new kind of gambling -- one in which a man staked lonely hours of boredom as he skimmed across the surfaces of dead worlds and the prize was a swift, clear look at the crazy sparkling treasures of reality, a handshake from the ghost of an alien being who had been computing his way across the ionic tides of space IF before the pyramids were planned. Suddenly, and for the first time, Targett was glad he had signed on with the Cartographical Service -- but suppose he was not among the group Aesop was going to send back to investigate the find? "Dave' he said carefully, "how will Aesop select the modules he wants to come back here?" "Like a computer." Surgenor gave a wry smile. "For an unscheduled foray he likes to use the modules which have clocked up the least engine hours -- and this old bus is due for -- " "Don't tell me -- a complete overhaul next month." "Next week." . "That's great," Targett said bitterly. "Two modules out of six. Odds of only two to one against me and I couldn't even bring it off. With my luck I'd -- " He fell silent as he saw the slow grin spreading over Surgenor's face. "May I make a suggestion?" Surgenor kept his gaze straight ahead. "Instead of sitting around here calculating odds, why don't you get suited up and take a walk over into those hills? That way -- " "What? Can you do things like that?" Surgenor sighed. "I would also suggest that you read Survey Regulations when you get back. of up to fifty hours for precisely this -- " "Skip all that stuff, Dave -- I can bone up on regulations later." Targett's mounting excitement overrode his respect for Surgenor's seniority. "Will Aesop clear me to leave the module and take a look at -- whatever is over there?" "He ought to -- the logistics make sense. You could give him television coverage and a verbal report while I'm taking this module back to the ship. Only one module would need to return to pick you up. And if your report shows the find is worth bringing the Sarafand down for, there'll be no extra engine time on the modules at all." "Let's talk to Aesop right now." "You're sure you want to do this, Mike?" Surgenor's eyes had become serious. "The Cartographical Service has an occupational disease all to itself -- there's a tendency for us to confuse the map with the territory." "I don't even know what that means." "It means that no amount of thinking about a ten-mile walk on an alien world can be equated with the actual experience. That's why Aesop hasn't' already taken the initiative and ordered one of us to investigate these objects -- the Service doesn't require a man to walk new ground alone." Targett snorted and pressed the ncct him directly to Captain Aesop, the vast artificial intelligence which occupied one entire deck of the Sarafand. II air, dipped its nose slightly and whined away to the north in a cloud of brown dust. Targett watched it vanish, mildly surprised at the speed with which all sign of the vehicle vanished. He took a deep breath of the suit's plastic-smelling air. It was early afternoon and he had about six hours of daylight to go -- ample time to reach the group of metal objects which lay due east at a distance of just over four miles. He began to walk toward the hills. tained no trace of oxygen and the planet had never known any indigenous life, yet Targett found he was unable to keep his eyes from scanning the sand underfoot for shells and insects. Intellectually he could accept that he was traversing a dead world, but on the instinctive and emotional level his consciousness simply rejected the concept. He walked quickly, feeling a little self-conscious each time the holstered ultralaser pistol bumped against his thigh. "I know you don't need it," Surgenor had said patiently, "but it's you don't wear it you don't go out." The planet's gravity was close to # and by the time Targett neared the hills he was sweating freely in spite of the suit's cooling system. He unbuckled the pistol -- which seemed to have maliciously quadrupled its weight -- and slung it over his shoulder. The ground was becoming increasingly stony and on reaching the hills he found they were composed largely of naked basaltic rock. He sat down on a smooth outcropping, glad of the chance to rest his legs. When he had sipped some cold water from the tube that nuzzled against his button on his communicator. "Aesop," he said, "how far am I from the objects?" "The nearest is nine hundred and twelve yards west of your present position," Aesop replied without hesitation, drawing on the data continuously fed to him by his own sensors and those in the six converging survey modules. "Thanks." Targett scanned the slope ahead of him. It formed an ill-defined ridge a short distance away. From there he should be able to see the objects, provided they were not buried under the accumulated dust of forty centuries. "How are you making out, Mike?" The voice was Surgenor's. "No problems." Targett was about to add that he was beginning to understand the difference between the map and the terIF ritory when it dawned on him that Surgenor had maintained radio silence till then with the deliberate intention of making him feel cut off. "How about you?" "I've got decisions to make," Surgenor said comfortably. "I'll be back at the Sarafand in less than three hours and the question is whether to eat now or wait for a proper steak dinner on board. What would you do, Mike?" "That's one of those tricky decisions you have to sort out for yourself." Targett kept his voice level with an effort. This was Surgenor's way of reminding him that by waiting a few hours he could have done his investigating in comfort and on a full stomach. As it was, he was going to spend an uncomfortable night with nothing to keep him going but water and surrogate. "Yeah -- I think I'll sleep on it. See you, Mike." Surgenor's voice faded into a yawn. "See you." Targett rose to his feet with a new determination to make his private expedition worth while. He moved up the slope, being careful not to slip on the loose surface stones and dust which cascaded around his ankles at every step. Beyond the ridge the ground leveled out for perhaps a mile before rising sharply to the rocky spine of the hills. The small plateau was bounded to the north and south by tumbled palisades of boulders. almost as if it had been cleared by bulldozers. Scattered across the level ground -- in random groupings -- were hundreds of slim black cylinders, the nearest only a few dozen paces from Targett. They were about twenty feet in length and tapered at each end. Targett' s heart began a steady, peaceful pounding as it came to him that the alien objects certainly were not discarded canisters, as Surgenor had suggested. He took the miniature television camera from his belt, plugged it briefly into the suit's powerpack and aimed it at the nearest cylinders. "Aesop," he said. "I've made visual contact." "I'm getting a moderately good picture, Michael," Aesop replied. "I'll go closer." "Do not move," Aesop commanded sharply. taking a step forward. "What's the matter?" "Perhaps nothing, Michael." Aesop was speaking at his normal tempo again. "The picture I'm receiving from you would suggest that the surfaces of the objects are free of dust. Is this correct?" "I guess it is." Targett examined the shining black cylinders, ruefully wondering how he had failed to notice their condition. They might have been scattered across the plateau only that morning. "You guess? Does some visual defect prevent you from being positive?" "Don't be funny, Aesop -- I'm positive. Does it mean the objects have been put here recently?" "Improbably. Has there been any accretion of dust in the vicinity of each object?" Targett narrowed his eyes into and saw that the cylinders were lying in cradles of accumulated dust, the upper edges of which were a few inches clear of the black metal. He described what he could see. "Repellent fields," Aesop said. "Still effective after a possible four thousand years. Itns not necessary for you to study these objects any further. Michael. As soon as the planetary survey has been completed I shall bring the Sarafand to your present location for the purpose of a full investigation." "Thanks, but I have no intention of cooling my heels for four or five hours." Targett made his voice firm, although he was uncertain of how good Aesop was at interpreting inflexions. "I'm going to take a closer look." "I will permit that, provided you continue to supply uninterrupted television coverage." Targett almost pointed out that, with close to three thousand miles separating them, the computer had no way of imposing its will on him, but he suppressed his irritation. During his months in the Service he had managed to swallow the facts that his crewmates addressed the ship's computer as "Captain" and obeyed its every instruction as though they were serving a three-cluster marshal. There was no point in blowing up about it just when something of genuine interest had come along to break the routine. He crossed the level ground, keeping the camera trained ahead. And as he walked, something about the general appearance of the cylinders began to disturb him. They looked like military materiel. Torpedoes, perhaps. The same thought must have occurred to Aesop. "Michael; have you made a polyrad check of the area?" "Yes." Targett had not, but he held up his left wrist as he spoke, examined the suit's polyrad dial and saw it was registering nothing unusual. He moved the dial into camera view for a second. "All clear. Do these things look like torpedoes to you, Aesop?" "They could be anything. Proceed." Targett, who had been proceeding anyway, clamped his mouth shut and tried to put Aesop out of his mind. He approached the nearest cylinder, marveling at its gleaming electrostatic freshness. IF "Hold the camera three feet from the object," Aesop said in his ear. "Walk around it and return to your starting point." "Yes, j," Targett muttered, moving crab-wise around the cylinder. O NE end of it tapered almost to a point, in the center of which was a one-centimeter circular hole, reminding him of the muzzle of a rifle. A ring of black glass, practically indistinguishable from the surrounding metal, was located a few inches back from the point. The other end was more rounded and covered with smaller holes like those on a pepper shaker. In the cylinder's mid-section were several plates set flush with the surface and secured by screws of a surprisingly Earthlike design. There were no markings of any kind. "Thank you, Michael -- now see if you can remove the plates from the center section." "Right." Targett was mildly surprised at Aesop's instruction, but he set the camera where it could cover his actions and unsheathed his knife. "Just a minute, Mike," Surgenor's voice cut in unexpectedly, loud and clear in spite of the hundreds of miles between Targett and Module Five. "You mentioned torpedoes a minute ago. What do those things look like?" "Dave," Targett said wearily, "why don't you go back to sleep?" ' "I've got indigestion -- now tell me what you've got there." Targett described the cylinders quickly and with a growing feeling of exasperation. His projected stroll down the centuries, among the relics of an ancient civilization, was somehow getting him more tangled than ever in the petty restrictions of the present. "Do you mind if I get on with the job?" he concluded. "I don't think you should touch those things, Mike." "Why not? They look like torpedoes. But if there were any danger Aesop would have warned me off." "Would he?" Surgenor's voice was hard. "Don't forget that Aesop is a computer -- " "You don't need to tell me that. You guys are the ones who personalize him." " -- and therefore thinks in a very cold, very logical manner. Didn't you notice his sudden change in attitude just noy? At first he wanted you to stay clear of the objects -- now he's telling you to take one apart." "Which proves he thinks it's safe," Targett said. "Which proves he thinks it could be dangerous, you bonehead. Listen, Mike, this little jaunt of yours has turned out rather differently from what any of us expected and, since you were the one who volunteered to go out on the limb, Aesop is quite prepared to let you saw down the tree behind you." Targett shook his head, although there was nobody to see him. "If Aesop thought there was any risk he would order me away from here." "Let's ask him," Surgenor snapped. "Aesop, why did you instruct Mike to remove the casing from one of those cylinders?" "To permit inspection of its interior," Aesop replied. Surgenor sighed audibly. "Sorry. What was the reasoning behind your permitting Mike to proceed with this investigation alone instead of waiting for the arrival of the customary two modules or the entire ship?" "The objects in question resemble torpedoes, tanks or bombs," Aesop replied without hesitation, "but the complete absence of electrical or mechanical interfaces suggests that they may be self-contained automated devices. Their contamination repellant systems are still active, so there is a possibility that other systems are either active or capable of being activated. If the objects prove to be robot weapons it is obviously better that they be examined initially by one man rather than by four or twelve." drily. "There you are, Mike. Captain Aesop is a staunch advocate of the greatest good of the greatest number." "I cannot risk the ship." He can't risk the ship, Mike. Now that you know the score, you are entitled to refuse to chance going near those objects until a team arrives with full probe instrumentation." "I don't think there's any risk worth mentioning," Targett said steadily. "Besides, everything Aesop said makes sense to me. I'm going ahead." A nalyzing his own feelings, Targett was surprised to discover that he was slightly disappointed in Aesop. He had always objected to personalizing the computer, yet in his heart he must have regarded Aesop as a benign entity who looked out for Targett's welfare with greater scrupulousness than could have been expected of a human skipper. Possibly there was something there a psychoanalyst could get his teeth into, but his immediate concern was with the interior of the nearest cylinder. He unclipped the heavy backpack, set it on the ground and kneeled beside the sleek black torpedo. The screws holding the mid-section plates had Y-shaped slots, which did not provide a good purchase for the point of his knife but were spring-loaded and turned easily when 'depressed. He lifted the first plate carefully, exposing a IF mass of components and circuitry, much of which appeared to be duplicated and arranged symmetrically about a central spine. The conduits were drab and not color-coded, but looked fresh enough to have been installed the previous day. Targett, who was not an engineer, suddenly felt a profound respect for the long-departed beings who had created the cylinders. Within five minutes he had stripped off all the curved plates and laid them in a row beside the cylinder body. An inspection of the complex interior told him nothing about the object's function, except that a mechanism in the sharper end had the hard uncompromising lines he associated with machine guns. "Hold the camera about two feet from the object," Aesop instructed, "and move along its entire length." Targett did as he had been told. "How's that? This looks like an engine section but the metal looks queer -- a bit crumbly." "That would be caused by nitrogen absorption associated with -- " Aesop stopped speaking in mid-sentence, a strangely human mannerism which Targett had never known the computer to exhibit before. "Aesop?" "Here is an instruction you must obey instantly." Aesop's voice was preternaturally sharp. "Scan your surroundings. If you see a rock formation that would give you protection against machine rifle fire -- go to it immediately!" "What's the matter?" Targett glanced around the shimmering plateau. "Don't ask questions," Surgenor's voice cut in. "Do as Aesop says. Run for cover." "But -- " Targett's voice faded as his peripheral vision picked up a sudden movement. He turned toward it and saw that -- in the center of the plateau -- one of the hundreds of cylinders had reared its sharp end at an angle into the air. It was swaying slowly and blindly, as though supported by a loose wire. Targett gaped at it for a moment, filled with an almost superstitious dread, then ran north toward the nearest barricade of rock. Hampered by the suit and the extra gravity, he found it impossible to pick up any real speed. On his right the cylinder spiraled lazily into the air like a mythological creature awakening from millennia of slumber. It drifted in his direction. Two others stirred in their dusty cradles. Targett tried to move faster but felt as if he were waist deep in syrup. Ahead he saw a black triangular hole formed by tilted slabs of rock. He swerved toward it. T HE sky to his right was clear again, giving him the impression the cylinder had vanished. Then he saw it moving around behind him, foreshortening, aiming itself. His thighs pumped harder in the nightmarish slow motion and the dark opening swung crazily ahead, but too far away. He knew he was going to be late. He threw himself at the opening -- just as a massive hammer sledged ferociously into his back. The television camera spun from his hand as he was lifted off his feet and flung into the space between the rocks. Astounded at finding himself still alive, Targett burrowed desperately for cover. The triangular space proved long enough to take his whole body. He squirmed into it, moaning with panic at the thought ofanother bullet finding him at any instant. Vm alive , he thought numbly, buthow? He slid a gloved hand around to the lower part of his back where the bullet had struck, felt an unfamiliar jagged edge of metal. His probing fingers discovered a crumpled, boxlike object -- the ruins of his oxygen generator. He started to reach for the back : pack containing the spare generator, then remembered the pack was lying out on the plateau where he had set it down before going to work on the cylinder. He clawed feverishly at the confining rock until he had reversed his position, then peered outside. The small segment of open sky he could see was crossed and recrossed with the black silhouettes of torpedoes in flight. Targett inched forward a little for a better view. His jaw sagged as he saw that the torpedoes had taken to the air in hundreds, swarming silently upward, their shadows rippling over brownish dust and rocks. Even as he watched, a few laggards angled their noses into the air, swung groggily for a moment and drifted up to join their fellows in the circulating cloud. A slight fold in the ground made it impossible for him to see where the backpack lay, or if the cylinder on which he had worked had also taken flight. He raised his head slightly and fell back amid a sudden shower of rock splinters and dust. The banshee howl or ricochets left no doubt in his mind that several of the torpedoes had noted his movement and used their guns. "Report on your position, Michael," Aesop's voice seemed to come from another world. "My position isn't too good," Targett said hoarsely, trying tocontrol his breathing. "These things seem to be robot hunters fitted out with machine rifles. The lot of them are airborne now -- perhaps the radiation from my television camera triggered them off -- and they're swarming about like mosquitoes. I'm hiding out under some rocks but -- " IF "Stay where you are. I will have the Sarafand there in less than an hour." "That's no good, Aesop. One of the torpedoes took a shot at me as I was getting in here. The suit isn't punctured, but my oxygenerator is out of action." "Use the spare from your pack," Surgenor put in before Aesop could reply. "I can't." Targett made the strange discovery that he felt embarrassed rather than afraid. "The pack's lying out in the open and I can't get at it." "But that gives you only -- " Surgenor paused. "You'll have to reach the pack, Mike." Targett could feel his lungs begin to labor as the suit's residual oxygen was depleted. "That's what I was thinking." "Look, perhaps the torpedoes respond only to sudden movement. If you crawled out very slowly -- " "Hypothesis incorrect," Aesop interupted. "My analysis of the sensor circuitry in the torpedo which Michael opened indicates that it was a duplex system, both channels of which use movement and heat for target identification. Any exposure of his body would be certain to draw more fire." "It already has -- I tried to poke my head out of this hole a minute ago," Targett said. "I almost lost it." "That shows my conclusion about the sensor circuitry was accurate, which in turn -- " "We haven't time to listen to you congratulating yourself, Aesop." Surgenor's voice crashed in the suit's radio. "Mike, have you tried your sidearm on them?" Ill tralaser, which was still slung over his shoulder, then pulled his hand back. "It wouldn't help, Dave. There are hundreds of those things buzzing around out there and an ultralaser pistol holds -- how many charges?" "Let's see. Twenty-six." "So what's the point of even trying?" r "Maybe there isn't any point, Mike, but are you just going to lie there and suffocate? Blast a few of them at least." "David Surgenor," Aesop interupted. "I instruct you to remain silent while I deal with this emergency." "Deal with it?" Targett felt an illogical stirring of his former blind faith in Aesop. "All right. What do you want me to do?" "Can you see any of the torpedoes without endangering yourself?" "Yes." Targett glanced at the triangular area of sky as a black cigar-shape drifted across it. "Only one at a time, though." "That is sufficient. Your record shows that you are a good marksman. I want you to use your sidearm on one of the torpedoes. Hit it." "What's the point?" Targett's brief, irrational hope dissolved' into anger and raw panic. "I've got twenty-six charges and there are three hundred of those robots out there." "Three-h u nd red-and-sixty-t wo, to be precise," Aesop said. "Now listen to my instructions and obey them without further delay. Direct an ultralaser burst against one of the torpedoes. Hit it as close to the nose section as possible and describe the effects of your action." "You smug -- " Realizing the futility of trying to insult a computer, Targett wrenched the ultralaser free of its holster and flipped the tubeless scopesight up into position. He set the sight for low magnification and wriggled around in the narrow space between the rocks until he was in a reasonably good firing position. The controlled breathing essential for high-accuracy shooting was impossible -- his lungs were working like bellows in the suit's stale air -- but the torpedoes were a relatively easy target. He waited until one came questing across his segment of sky, put the cross-hairs on its conical nose section and squeezed the trigger. As the first capsule in the weapon's magazine yielded its energy a quarter-second burst of ing briefly on the torpedoe's nose. The black cylinder seemed to falter slightly, then recover and cruise out of sight, apparently unharmed. Targett felt perspiration prickling out on his forehead. Incredible as it seemed, he -- Michael Targett, the most important individual in the universe -- was going to die, just like all the anonymous beings who had gone before him. "I hit one," he said through numb lips. "Right on the nose. It just flew on as if nothing had happened." "Was there any searing or scarring of the metal?" "I don't think so. I'm seeing them in silhouette, so I couldn't be sure, though." "You say the torpedo flew on as though nothing had happened," Aesop persisted. "Think carefully, Michael -- was there no reaction at all?" "Well, it seemed to wobble for a fraction of a second, but -- " "Just as I expected," Aesop commented. "The internal arrangement of the torpedo you examined suggested it had a duplex sensory and control system. The new evidence confirms this." "Damn you, Aesop," Targett whispered. "I thought you were trying to help me but you were just gathering more data. From now on, do your own dirty work -- I've retired from the Service." IF "The ultralaser radiation would have been sufficient to burn out the prime sensory inputs," Aesop continued unperturbed, "causing the back-up system to take over. Another direct hit on the same torpedo would make it fall out of control and the probability is high that the impact would cause catastrophic failure of the motor casing, which appears to have deteriorated. The high level of prolonged nondirectional radiation normally associated with failure in a motor of this design would in turn be sufficient to overload both sensory channels in the other torpedoes, causing them -- " "That's it!" Targett felt a fierce pang of relief -- it faded almost as quickly as it had come. He fought to keep his voice level. "Except that I could see no mark on the torpedo I hit -- and if I try to poke my face out for a better look I'll get it blown off. Maybe that would be the best thing that could happen -- at least it would be quick." ET me say something here,LrfAesop," came Surgenor's voice. "Listen, Mike -- you still have a chance. You've got twentyfive energy capsules left in your magazine. Blast away at the torpedoes as they go by and maybe you'll burn the same one twice." "Thanks, Dave." A gray mood of resignation settled over Targett as he realized what he had to do. "I appreciate your concern, but remember I'm the gambler in this outfit. Twenty-six into threesixty-two put the odds at about thirteen to one against me right at the start. Thirteen's a bad number and I don't feel very lucky." "A superstitious gambler's a loser, Mike. Let Aesop figure your odds. It's your only chance." "Not the only one." Targett gathered his legs beneath him in preparation for violent action. "I'm a pretty good shot with radiation weapons. My best bet would be to get outside fast -- out where I can track one of the torpedoes long enough to take two shots at it." "Don't try it, Mike," Surgenor said urgently. "Sorry." Targett tensed himself and edged forward. "My mind is -- " "Your mind appears to be confused," Aesop cut in. "Possibly due to oxygen starvation. Have you forgotten that you dropped the television camera outside your shelter?" Targett hesitated in the act of diving forward. "The camera? Can you see the swarm?" "Not all of it, but enough to let me follow individual torpedoes for a considerable portion of their circuit. I will instruct you when to fire and by timing your shots to match the general circulation rate of the swarm we can bring the probability of a second hit on one torpedo close to unity." "All right, Aesop -- you win." Targett settled down again, burdened by the dull certainty that nothing he could do would make any difference to the situation. His breathing had become rapid and shallow as his lungs rejected their own waste products. His hands were clammy inside their gloves. He raised the sidearm and peered through its sight. "Begin firing at will to initiate the sequence." Aesop's voice came faintly through the roaring in Targett'sears. "Right." He steadied the weapon, waited until a torpedo drifted across his segment of sky and directed a burst of energy onto its nose section. The torpedo wavered for an instant, then flew on. Targett repeated the sequence again and again, always 'with the same result, until the pile of expended capsules spat out by the weapon numbered more than a dozen. "Where are you, Aesop?" he breathed. "You're not helping me. "The ultralaser radiation leaves no visible marks on the surfaces of the torpedoes, so I am forced to work on a purely statistical basis," Aesop said. "I now have sufficient data to enable me to predict their movements with a tolerable degree of accuracy." "Then start doing it." There was a slight pause. "Each time I say, 'Now -- ' fire at the next torpedo appearing in your field of view." "I'm waiting." Targett blinked to clear his vision. Bright-rimmed black spots had begun to dance across it. "Now." A torpedo appeared an instant later and Targett squeezed the trigger. The ultralaser ray raked along the nose section -- but after an initial tremor the black cylinder drifted steadily out of view without changing direction. "Now." Targett fired again, with the same result. "Now." Once again the beam of energy flicked across a torpedo -- with no effect. "This isn't working out too well." Targett focused his eyes with difficulty on the indicator on the butt of his weapon. "I'm down to eight charges. I'm beginning to think I ought to go ahead with my own idea while I -- " "You are wasting valuable time, Michael. Now." Targett squeezed the trigger and another torpedo drifted heedlessly on, effectively unharmed. "Now." Hopelessly, Targett fired again. The torpedo had passed out of sight before it dawned on him that perhaps it had begun to change direction. IF "Aesop," he managed to say, "I think maybe -- " He heard a dull explosion and the triangular segment of sky turned a blinding white. Light seared Targett's eyes before the helmet filters automatically continued unabated for seconds. He imagined it burning out the primary and back-up sensors on the swarming robots, which would in turn blunder down and -- his eyes shut and buried his head in his arms. When the prolonged rumble of explosions and the almost palpable flood of brillance had died away he crawled out from under the rocks and forced his legs to accept his weight. He opened his eyes cautiously. The plateau was littered with hundreds of inert torpedoes, their motor compartments glowing red, vaporing. Several of the torpedoes were still airborne but they paid no attention to him as he ran, weaving drunkenly, toward the spot where he had left the backpack. On the way across the plateau the thought occurred to him that one of the torpedoes could have landed right on the pack, but he found it lying safely beside the stripped-down cylinder, which apparently had not flown. He 'opened it with trembling fingers, took out the oxygenerator and experienced a moment of exquisite dread as the ruined generator refused to let itself be detached from the suit's breather hole. With the last dregs of his strength he wrenched it off, clicked the replacement into position and lay down to await oxygen. "Mike? Are you all right?" Targett breathed deeply. "I'm all right, Dave. Captain Aesop got me through." "Did you say Captain?" "I said Captain." Targett rose to his feet and surveyed the littered battlefield upon which he and a distant computer had vanquished an enemy host which had lain in ambush for four thousand years. In all probability he would never know what the torpedoes' original purpose had been, or why they had been dumped on cheology seemed to have faded. It was sufficient just to be alive in the present. As he scanned the incredible scene one of the torpedoes which was still aloft flew blindly into a ridge more than a mile away. The resultant explosion drenched the plateau with radiance. Targett shielded his eyes. "There goes another one, Aesop." "Your meaning is not clear to me, Michael," Aesop replied. "Another torpedo, of course. Didn't you see the flash?" "No. The television camera is not functioning." "Oh?" Targett glanced towards miMoa befoul Dune Frank Herbert returns to the duneworld of Arrakis for an epic of imperial intrigue and human ecology-an epic that spans the universe. That's why we can tell you where it ends We're reprinting fast, but your bookseller may be out of stock. Order this and other frank Herbert books today: (N #) # (#) # (S#) # (S#) # (#) # Name  Address City State Zip Include list price plus a dime postage for each title. Dept, mhk # Madison Ave., New York # his former hiding place, where the camera had fallen. "Perhaps all those explosions burned it out." "No." Aesop paused. "Transmissions ceased when you dropped the camera. There is a good probability that the switch got jarred to the off position." "Very likely. I was moving -- " Targett stopped speaking as a disturbing thought occurred to him. "Then you lied to me. You weren't able to track the torpedoes -- " "That is correct." "But you were telling me when to fire. How did you know I would hit one of the torpedoes twice?" "I didn't." Aesop's voice was precise, unruffled. "This is something you in particular should understand, Michael. I simply took a chance." (( A LL this is great stuff for my Abook, Mike." Clifford Pollen's reedy voice was pitched high with excitement as he leaned across the mess table on the Sarafand, "There were three-sixtytwo torpedoes skimming around and you had twenty-six shots. That means Aesop staked your life on odds of about thirteen to one -- and the gamble came off!" "You'll never make a successful gambler, Clifford." Targett smiled pityingly as he cut up a king-sized steak. "You've no idea of how to calculate odds." Pollen looked offended. "I can perform a simple calculation. IF Twenty-six into three-sixty-two -- " "Has nothing to do with the actual mathematics of the situation, my friend. It was necessary for me to hit one of the torpedoes twice, right?" "Right," Pollen said grudgingly. "My first shot could hit any torpedo. There was one chance in three-six-two that my second shot would hit the same torpedo -- or three-six-one in three-six-two that it would not. For the third shot to coincide with either of the first two, it was two chances in threesix-two -- or three-sixty in threesix-two that it wouldn't -- and so on. In this sort of calculation it's easier to work out the probability against something happening, so all you have to do is multiply threesix-one over three-six-two by threesixty over three-six-two, and so on right up to the odds against my last shot which would have been threethree-seven over three-six-two. Multiply it all out and you get odds of around two to one that I would hit a torpedo twice. It wasn't much of a gamble, really." "That's hard to believe." "Work it out for yourself." Targett put a piece of steak into his mouth and chewed appreciatively. "It's a good example of the difficulty of judging complex probabilities by common sense." Pollen shook his head. "It's too complicated for me." "That's why you'd never make a successful gambler." Targett smiled again as he worked on his steak. He did not mention the fact that his own common sense had been outraged by the mathematics of probability, or that it had taken a long and tedious conversation with Aesop on a private link, after all danger was past, to convince him of the truth. And he would never mention the cold, lonely feeling which had come over him when he genuinely realized that Aesop -- behind all the illusions -- was simply a logic machine. At one point, wedged between the rocks, it had dawned on him that it would have been more comforting, while wandering on alien worlds, to address Aesop as "Captain", and to think of him as a superhuman being who never came down from his isolated command post on the SaraamTs computer deck. "We'll be putting down on Parador at the end of this survey," Dave Surgenor said from the opposite side of the table. "Are you going to give us a practical demonstration of how a successful gambler operates?" "I don't think so." Targett put another forkful of steak into his mouth. "The syndicates who run the gambling houses are probably sneaky enough to use computers to calculate the odds." He glanced at the nearest computer terminal and raised his cup of coffee. "No disrespect to Captain Aesop, of course."  "T#ie worlds exist in the mind alone -- Who knows this truth can dance with fire Or fly through the air or float on stone... I the wall of the railroad station in San Francisco. There was a long, withdrawn, melancholy honk down the tracks in the windy sunshine. Squashed popcorn paved the floor, all the glass was grimy, a quickshot bar with painfully exotic decor usurped a section of the lobby. Only the magazine stand on the platform was bright and clean. A chubby station guard with a Fu Manchu mustache ambled to the gates. Ravenshaw decided one efficiency derived from the shambles: no one would lounge here by choice. General Craddock brought up the rear of the hustling commuter crowd. He said, "Good morning," and didn't say another word until they had driven through the factories to the #th Street on-ramp and were into thick traffic on the Bay Bridge approach. Then: "I would not choose to live at any other time, but tell me this, Arleigh, why do some very pretty girls at Stanford dress like refugees from a Ukranian potato bog?" "To match their young men as romantic vagabonds." The general snorted. "Romantic?" "Dictionary says imbued or dominated by idealism." Ravenshaw followed the great arc of the suspension cables with his eyes. "Irrational idealism is a starving snake finding its own tail around a tree." Craddock took off his blackrimmed glasses and rubbed the bridge of his nose. "You have a pretty way with words," he said, "but watch your tongue when we meet the think-tank." "Yessir," said Ravenshaw. "Besides Rand Corporation and Systems Development and the Hudson Institute, what is a thinktank?" "Throw 'em a problem and they bark like a herd of seals -- a conditioned reflex -- how do I know? I never met one before. I take a dim view of the whole thing." They were running downhill from the anchor block of the twin suspension spans. It was a sparkling day, brisk and sunny, but Craddock was in a heavy fog of thought. "This outfit is supposed to be unique. They don't make egregious pronouncements. It's a club with a clubhouse. Very exclusive. They pick their own members. You've got to have a pretty good introduction to meet them." "How's their batting average?" "I asked that question. About eight-eighty, but a lot of the work is not susceptible to percentage analysis. There's another yardstick, and that's the hundred thousand dollars they got for investment fifteen years ago when they cranked up this brain machine. They have something over IF "Wow," said Ravenshaw, "a bunch of financial experts." They rumbled through the Goat Island Tunnel and onto the cantilever span. "They're a bunch of generalists," said Craddock, "not nuts-and-boltsers. But anyone who doesn't pay attention to money is obviously not quite bright. One of the secondary objectives of this group was to become self-sustaining -- and they are that." "Why have we got to talk with them?" "Because the man said so. While there are no fingers but my own in the day-to-day pie, I have authority to which I respond. Authority wants us to meet with the wise men." The East Bay spread out ahead of them, wind-polished and bright. Ravenshaw automatically found the Campanile on the Berkeley campus and the tall buildings of Oakland with the skyline hills beyond. There was no question in his mind that the Bay Area was among the most dramatic postcard pictures in the world, but he ignored it today. "Complete disclosure?" he asked. "Not on your life!" snapped Craddock. "The arguments about honesty and open dealing are byproducts of a mistaken appreciation of the nature of things. We'll put a hypothetical question to these people and see what happens." Ravenshaw angled through traffic onto the Bayshore Freeway north. "Well, sir, who are they? How do you make a think-tank?" "In this case, the man in Washington had some discretionary funds tucked away after the Korean War. It occurred to him that wise old men could be recycled like used copper wire. It was a tough job, because how do you evaluate wisdom? What he did was pick a couple of anchor men and let them do the recruiting. Questionnaires went out to a wide spectrum of groups, the National Association of Manufacturers, the Retail Clerks, the Geophysical Union, the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, the Farm Bureau, the Amalgamated Pretzel Benders, the American Association for the Advancement of Science -- you name it and they got an inquiry over a hot-line signature. Give us five names in your outfit,' give us five names outside, of the best general consultants you've ever come across. Out of eight thousand names, six hundred were mentioned more than four times. A grading scale was set up and the number cut down to just under a hundred. The anchor men interviewed these people and twenty were offered jobs. Eight accepted. They are a hardnose bunch. I've seen a couple of their recommendations and have a good opinion of their ability.' # "But you don't trust them' said Ravenshaw. He turned onto the university off-ramp. "Stop after the next light' said Craddock. "Park the car. I want to throw a little dust in the air. I want to obfuscate things a little." He brooded as they crossed San Pablo and Ravenshaw pulled to the curb. "Trust them? I trust them to do what they want to do. I can nail responsibility upstairs, but it's a bitter exercise to fix blame when the horse is gone." ly, "Do you see any end to this?" He meant the entire perplexing problem of the infinite worlds he had stumbled into when General Craddock had pulled him out of Vietnam to head Wide Blue Yonder, Inc. Craddock did not misunderstand him. "I see dozens of unacceptable solutions and very few I like. Arleigh, I used to go to the Saturday afternoon movies when I was a boy. In one serial a goat ate what they called a 'biscuit bomb' and followed the hero around. The caption read: 'Tick-tick, ticktick.'" At the time my sympathy was not with the goat. Now, with this funny feeling in my stomach -- " His attention was caught by a girl walking toward them. She was in a benny, a maxicoat from the Salvation Army. Craddock sighed. "Will hemlines go up again in our time?" Ravenshaw pursued his thought further. "I could go back to active duty -- hide out in a jungle war," he said tentatively. "Cut and run? Turn back the clock? Cop out? Stop the world, I want to get off and spit?" Craddock pulled his suitcase from the back seat and opened it. He slammed it shut again. "Ravenshaw, you and I are lucky beyond the dreams of fortune. We stand at a hingepoint of history. How we act, what kind of men we are, is a question of weight and import,  thought I was a fortunate man, being placed to write a footnote to a footnote. Now it's large type in the main copy. Very sobering. We are involved in affairs of genuine consequence." Ravenshaw nodded doubtfully. "And if there's any constant but change, it's Start From Now," Craddock went on. Tattoo that on your heart. I believe in sins of comission and to hell with virtue by default." "Yessir," said Ravenshaw. "Right," said Craddock. He turned his attention to a large, leather-covered shaving kit from his case. He took an ivory toothpick from his breast pocket and stuck it into one of the covered hinges. He turned the kit upside down and pulled one snap. He looked at his watch. "I also believe in a few small precautions," IF he said mildly. "One minute forty -- " he pulled the other S nap -- "and here are your papers, Mr. Bill Quintard. Go through your pockets. Match books, laundry lists, the rental contract for this car, wallet, the works into the kit. Got a label in your coat?" "Eddie Bauer in Seattle, outdoor gear and goosedown garments, a national mail-order house that imports Harris tweed." The general nodded and Ravenshaw read the letters addressed to Bill Quintard, checked the address book and put three scraps of notes into his pockets along with a swizzle stick labeled Plainsboro Jughandle with a little green mermaid on top. In the wallet, his picture was on an ID card from the James Forrestal Research Center. "Do I show off this stuff?" "It's subliminal support. I am Marcus Holloman and I am your boss. Be secretarial and a little bodyguardish. Questions?" "Why did you say a minute-forty when I made it a minute-ten?" "Complete disclosure? Hell no. If you got smart and' opened this case, you'd get fogged with ethyl mercaptan plus an interesting dye that usually wears off in six weeks. Also, an acid eats the papers inside." The general grinned. "Other questions?" "What is the think-tank called?" "Cassandra Investment Company." "I can't believe it," said Ravenshaw. He started the engine. "Are we off in a blizzard of skunk?" Craddock put on a pair of glasses with thin gold rims. They gave him a mild, scholarly air. He whistled the first notes of the Air Force Academy Song and Ravenshaw pulled into the traffic. II T HE building was modern nondescript, with a row of thirtyfoot arches filled with glass. An old five-story, brick apartment house stood behind it. To the left of the lobby was an open floor with desks, secretaries and business machines. To the right were stairs to the mezzanine, a guard in uniform, vaults and private offices. And a pretty girl. "My name's Holloman. Mr. Quintard and I have an appointment." "Yes, sir." She ticked their names on a list. "John, will you take these gentlemen to the elevator." They followed the guard to a door in the rear and around a corner. The hall was too deep by twenty feet, Ravenshaw noted. They were in the brick apartment house. The guard used a key at the elevator and pushed the button for them. When the door opened they stepped into a reception room between chromed poles two inches in diameter set in footsquare boxes. There was an immediate bizz-abizz-bizz noise. The man walking to meet them stopped in his tracks. He waited until another man appeared from 'a side door. "As you know, gentlemen, this is a sensitive area. Will you please empty your pockets onto the desk." He was urbane, competent and sincere. Craddock had a pocketful of change and Ravenshaw had his four-inch stock knife. On invitation they stepped back between the poles and the buzzer was silent. The man examined their credentials. They retrieved their belongings and were escorted down a cork-floored corridor to a pair of disguised fire doors with top quality panic hardware. There is nothing ostentatious about a dead solid floor and dead quiet ventilation except both are as rare as the owner who can afford them. The room Craddock and Ravenshaw entered was equally low key, but the carpet was wool of theater quality, guaranteed to show no wear after a million people had tromped on it. The egg-crate lighting probably did not vary ten lumins in any part of the room and the bookcases were solid oak of meticulous craftsmanship. There were no windows, there was no fireplace, and the chairs and tables had a well-maintained and well-used appearance with no offensive smell of cedar or lemon oil. Two groups of men were gossiping. A gray man was consulting a London Times Atlas on a stand. Another fellow had his hands cupped over his eyes in a deep chair. A third man came to greet Craddock and Ravenshaw. He had a head like a patent-leather owl, with close-set ears and black Irair too flat and polished to be anything but real. "I'm Swafford Jain," he said, "moderator for this month. I hope our security didn't bother you. I'm convinced precautions are protective to us and not primarily directed to our visitors. Mr. Holloman and Mr. Quintard, right? Coffee? Later, then. We've found it works best to brace the board with the question and socialize with a common background. Agreed?" His eyes were as direct as a living owl's and, to Ravenshaw's pleasure, he swiveled his head on fixed shoulders. He led them to chairs at the end of the room behind a low table with a fresh bouquet of single roses. He pushed aside an air copy of The Economist and rapped on the table with his knuckles. The groups broke up and Jain plunged directly into business. "This is our first general meeting of the year and will be conducted on a no-record basis. We have a new member, Mr. Sam Asabian, but my reminder to put IF doodlings into the security wastebasket on leaving this room is not directed to him as much as to his absent-minded elders in terms of service. Sam, will you do me the favor of making certain I carry away nothing?" A man with a bronzed moon face nodded and Jain bowed to Craddock. The general stood, slouching a little, and said, "I'm Marcus Holloman and Bill Quintard is with me. I am engaged to offer no source for the information behind the question I'd like you to consider. It should be regarded as a preliminary inquiry into a totally speculative condition. We are after guidelines and no reasonable guesses will be refused. An analogous situation might be that of a group gathered to consider the implications of flight before the Wright brothers got into the bicycle business. "We are aware that our fundamental premises may be in error. We appreciate the impossibility of detailed forecasts. I can't enlarge on the background, but I'm allowed to say some tentative evidence exists. This is the question: what happens if it becomes practical to travel to an infinite number of alternate worlds?" T HE twelve men were in a loose semicircle. Their ears did not flap nor were they at rigid attention, but Ravenshaw had a feeling that they saw more casually than a pride of Admirals would see on purpose; he would bet that every man could write a thousand words about Craddock by the end of his sixty-second speech. This was a redoubtable group. The man who had been cupping his eyes dropped his hands. "Break out the Second Coming type," he said in a bullfrog voice. "I'm Alonzo Johnson," he added, "and I thank you for such a notion." "Who's coming? Aimee Semple McPherson? Buddah, Ogier the Dane, King Arthur?" asked a small man, his feet stretched out in front of him. He had a face like a wedge of putty with home-cured olives pressed in for eyes. "The Honorable Joseph Levering," murmured Swafford Jain. "Exactly the point, Joe," said a man with a classic Roman profile, worn by time. "If you have infinite worlds, presumably everything can, has, or will happen. Aimee Semple McPherson has returned from the dead again somewhere, and the Four-Square Gospel Church rules the world in righteousness. I'm Ed Masterson. What I want isn't hard. Just give me a world where Shakespeare wrote Charlemagne or Boadicea or whatever title you like. Give me a world where the library at Alexandria was preserved so I can read Euripides' Andromeda and give me a world where the Bishop of Yucatan was a scholar instead of a fanatic." "What did Keats write at sixty?" asked a bald stocky man. "I'm Brander Lugard. What are the limiting factors, sir?" "Unknown, Mr. Lugard," said the general. "Then anything is possible, invasion from Mars, peace declared, the Greeks stop biting themselves in the small of the back and develop the scientific method." "Why not?" said a big man with stooped shoulders. "And Count Dracula has just put electric lights in his Transylvanian castle, sure he has. The whole thing's too open for meaningful discussion. Walt Milias." He nodded to Craddock and Ravenshaw. "Not so. I'm Cyrus Pfister. The same laws would apply -- forget a chlorine world -- and any real world has to be self-consistent. If you want intelligent animals, you've got to give up steak or eat your friendly neighborhood cow. There is an irreducible rationale in human affairs because of the inbuilt nature of the creature. That's your limiting factor. If intelligence is not human it's a different ball game." "You're saying that a world must be psychologically viable? Then there's no world of reason, if you rule out fantasy." "Who needs one hundred percent reason? Panic saves, just like Jesus." "You're talking about unknowns, not irreconcilables -- " " -- mystique about cold steel until some pragmatist with a Colt forty-five blows out the cobwebs the swordsmen use for brains -- " " -- another Mesabi to work over -- " " -- you can't move a society by example. What influence do the Swiss have on the world except the gnomes who drill holes in the money structure and cheese -- " " -- buffalo management and herds of native meat -- " " -- but even knowing it can be done is vital. Look at the four-minute mile. As soon as one man did it, so could a dozen -- " " -- existence is all the proof logic requires -- " The discussion became general and Ravenshaw was content to look and listen. Sam Asabian was puzzled by his peers as they supported preposterous structures and toppled them with snorts of laughter. The men were alert and mischievous as a cageful of monkeys, some solemn, some jocular. Milias was pompous with a twinkle in his eye, a happy target who would sit on a pigmy with elephantine grace whenever he could lure one close enough. The hottest argument was not heated. Asabian's face cleared as he understood this was for fun, deadly earnest and candy-castle spinning all at once. Ravenshaw wondered what firm base of values made the IF bedplate on which these men could bounce ideas like ball bearings. In a lull, Alonzo Johnson asked, "Mr. Holloman, what is your point of view? What do you want? Where do you stand?" "Good of mankind," said the general promptly. "Good of the United States. Good for you and good for me." "Open-ended enough," said Brander yLugard. "What I'd like to see is a world with no World War I. That was a generation cut short of generation." "So is every generation sir, not only that illuminated by star shells and the crepitating light of Victorian putrescence -- " " -- show me a people whose goal is not sloth, indulgence and selfgratification -- " "Contentment is the seed of destruction." Asabian threw that into the pot and settled back with a contented smile as two of the old wolves began to growl at it. With the discussion fragmented again, Ravenshaw found Swafford Jain's sardonic eyes on him. "Well, Mr. Quintard, what do you think of Our tank? We shock a good many people." Ravenshaw was off guard. "I suspect you'll resolve the question and touch reality like a custard pie spilled on the floor." "Or a bowl of applesauce?" said Jain softly. "Gentlemen, it's time for refreshments." get away from the Cassandra think-tank. General Craddock sat at his side, bemused behind a pair of dark glasses by the exotic youngsters hitchhiking along University Avenue. He marveled at the "heshes" but when he saw one couple dressed in Elizabethan costume holding a cardboard sign reading "Sackamenna" he evidently decided it would be all downhill from there and asked, "Do you want lunch?" "After that a la cart? No, sir." A security man had driven in a battery-powered tea cart and plugged it into a wall socket. It was the size of a hospital bed and had featured three general sections. Coffee, tea with cozies over the pots had occupied one end. The center had been taken up by a buffet of doughnuts and pastries, cold cuts and sun-cured olives and pickles and San Francisco sourdough. The other end had held a brave display of ice, bottles and bar tools. "If we turn right," said the general, "isn't there a bridge at Richmond? Then we can cut back over the Golden Gate and on to the airport." Ravenshaw nodded. "My feelings are mixed," said the general. "I was throwing rocks ahead on that foggy trail and a couple of times I didn't hear them hit. Who spilled the drink on your coat and sent it out to be sponged off?" "Rameses Three, the spry old devil with the criss-cross face. He was browsing the atlas." "Austin Mummery," said Craddock, and fell silent. Mummery had approached Ravenshaw and said, "Come with me, Mr. Quintard. I'm a leading local spiritualist." He had led Ravenshaw to the cart and expertly popped a split of champagne, pouring two tall glasses half full. He had topped them off with a bottle of Guiness and said, "Cheers. What do you think of our little group?" "A pleasure,"  Ravenshaw had said. He had looked admiringly at the cart. "How do you get into this club?" "It's a little tricky. You've got to be right." Austin Mummery's eyes were black and his upper lids drooped a little. "I have another question," Ravenshaw had said. Hooded eyes -- that was the technical term. "How did you pick the name?" "Cassandra? She was right, you know, but nobody believed her. She was the daughter of Hecuba and Priam and she was cursed by Apollo. I've not been able to satisfy myself whether the curse was knowing the future or the character flaw of telling other people about it." "I don't know how inquisitive I'm allowed to be," Ravenshaw had said, "but has Cassandra dug any bomb shelters?" "No. Whether the consensus derives from hope, rationality or futility, I cannot say." Mummery had smiled. "Those who endeavor to pin our butterfly beauty to statistical charts give us about ninety percent, which is a long way from being right all the time." "You speak of consensus -- " "The powerful force behind democracy. Forget ephemeral intellectual fashions and forget the committee that built a camel instead af a horse. The fuel for Cassandra is accord." "Agreement on what, sir? Your approach seems -- " "Frivolous?" Even Mummery's lips were seamed and the terrain of wrinkles changed when he smiled. "We were solemn once, until we found we were friends and party people. We only suspected this on the outside because we felt obligated to wear a mask of sobriety in front of the peasants." He was a provocative old scoundrel. "This is Liberty Hall, Mr. Quintard, and we do as we damn well please." "And the price of liberty?" "We have no formal philosopher to keep us vigilant with Ps and Qs." "So what is' your base philosophy?" Ravenshaw was certain that Mummery examined arid igsecond. He had to be over seventy, but he wq a man like an antique beartrap, old and powerful, with steel teeth in the jaws. "We all want to be heroes," IF Mummery had answered. "Carlyle pointed out, 'It is the property of the hero in every time, in every place, in every situation, that he comes back to reality; that he stands on things and not the show of things " Ravenshaw had shuddered. Grue is a thin ice that floats in Scotland -- he had felt as if someone had scooped up grue and dropped it down his back. Only serious men can afford comedy, buffoons crack jokes. Remembering Mummery's eyes, Ravenshaw shivered again. G eneral craddock looked over at Golden Gate Fields from the overpass as they left U.S. # for State #. "A Chinaman said he was already convinced that one horse could run faster than another. Do you bet races, Arleigh? Who's fast horse?" "Could be a dead heat. Jain and Mummery. What control do they have on Cassandra?" "I don't know," said Craddock. "It's a pretty plush setup. Each man has an office; they pay themselves about twenty-five thousand and the club picks up the tab for common expenses. Let me see. Those people in the front office-smarter than average guards -- manager -- overhead -- " He brooded as they zagged and zigged through Richmond to the hill suffused with hydrogen sulphide from the refinery and drifted down to the toll plaza of the bridge. They were on the whaleback with a spectacular view in all directions when Craddock said "Yup. Maybe so. Well, well. When I get back to Washington I'll put a little heat under this pot and see if it percolates." Ravenshaw winced. "What about their conclusion?" "'We recommend the positive action of doing nothing" the general quoted. "Well, that's the course we've been following. I am the king of an island and I own one boat. I keep that boat busy fishing and I'm scared to let it explore. It has been caught in storms and blown away to strange coasts a couple of times, but so far it's come back home. One boat and there aren't any more." He glanced at San Quentin to the left and sighed. "How is the fishing going, Arleigh?" "Got a sad rascal on a bare hook the other day," said Ravenshaw. "Maybe he thought I was a booking agent. He opened his cooler and took out a Manhattan in a plastic container with a lid. It had a slice of orange and a maraschino cherry in it. He drank the dfink. He put the cherry, stem and all in his mouth. He took it out with the stem tied into an overhand knot. He went through the same routine with another Manhattan and spat out a square knot. He said he was retired Navy and he was going to work on it until he could tie a bowline with his tongue, but all the drinks were expensive. I suggested putting the cherry in a glass of beer and he walked out mad." The general had a pained expression. While he drove around the hill and snaked over to #I south, Ravenshaw told about the man with the pickling method for rustclad steel. It seemed the material took a while to oxidize and dripped rust on the passersby. Then there was a real estate broker withan in-tank fuel pump, and the postman who had built an electrostatic dry-wash machine for flour gold in the desert. As they drove past Mill Valley Ravenshaw pointed out it was still a materials handling process even though the mill was supposed to have a ninety-four percent recovery capacity. "Anyone following us?" asked Craddock. "No, sir. I've been checking." "How about that chemical orereduction process?" "It's another thing I don't understand very well. I once had a fair background in chemistry and physics, but not any more. Maybe we ought to have a smart young man in the office instead of me. I've been away too long." been a surprisingly successful vendor of R  D. Others want in." "The word gets around," said Ravenshaw. "We're getting a caseload of technical hotshots. We see anybody who walks in the door, and the last time I checked, we hit one out of fourteen. A year ago it was one out of thirty-three. We're getting people from all over, not just locally." "Our primary mission is still inexplicable phenomena," said the general. "How come you weren't tempted by that offer from Lyne Jolley, about twice what you make as a lieutenant colonel." "I guess I like fishing." "How about Nell Rowley?" "Delightful," said Ravenshaw. The freeway ran through the hills above Sausalito. It was comparatively old and had the faults of youth. It leaped canyons on balanced fills from eucalyptus-sloped cuts. The leaves reflected the cold afternoon sun, thin gold and green. "But with that lady, you've got to learn to bob and weave." They ran downhill to the Golden Gate Bridge. "I wonder if you can have crooked wise men?" mused the general. "I'm going to bob and weave with those boys. How do you buy wise men? They've got everything they want. Knaves don't bat eight-eighty. What is their price, do you suppose?" Ill i ordered his life to smooth out IF the ups and downs of exuberance and depression. He didn't like to wallow in the troughs or be blown by the high winds of exhilaration. A side effect of this position was detachment, and he had no shame about leaving his opinions suspended in the air, like Mohammed's iron coffin. He filed the Cassandra affair in the back of his head and went about his business as chief of of quiet work and modest pleasure, when problems were challenging and solutions appeared with gratifying regularity. Jethro Wellaby had made a hat with a propeller on it. "Swamp cooler," he said. "Sweat evaporates. Cool in shade." The electric motor was powered by selenium cells mounted on the brim of a solar topi. Ravenshaw took it to the window to catch the sun and the propeller picked up speed and sounded like a wasp. "Next model inside hat," said Wellaby. "Problem, not enough power for bigger fan." Ravenshaw asked about more cells on the side of the topi, a fourbladed propeller and an inner shell to conceal the machinery without clipping ears. Wellaby said he had grape pickers in mind and had to hawkeye expense. Ravenshaw said it looked more like a luxury item and maybe the thing to do was encase the fan in a glittering expanded metal cage on top It would be a novelty and status symbol for fishermen and golfers and Abercrombie  Fitch. Wellaby said be liked grapes. Ravenshaw said he would like to see Mark II and Wellaby said thank you and stumped out of the office. Nell Rowley opened the door and asked what Beany wanted and Ravenshaw told her he had read about such a gadget years before, but had never seen one in action. "So it's been a variegated day," he said. "Miss Moffet and Leggitt in the morning, and artificial sunlight and Beany in the afternoon." "You have a man named Timberline Binghorst at four," she said. "He's from someplace in Utah and wants your advice." "Did you ever see a cat like that?" said Ravenshaw. Nell said Miss Moffet had to be out of her head to put a cat on her stomach to cure indigestion, no matter what she believed about sympathetic vibrations. Ravenshaw said it was not just any cat, but a cat from this particular quaint old English village. Nell asked what he was going to do about Leggitt, the polywater man who had followed Miss Moffet, and Ravenshaw said he had phoned the Advanced Research Projects Agency at the Pentagon and they were going to have Dr. Hugo Trumble fly down from Seattle for a look-see. They doubted that any druggist could come up with a catalyst for polywater, orthowater or anomalous water. Ravenshaw didn't know anything about the polymer waters except they boiled high, froze low and turned into a funny kind of ice. Their eyes met and Ravenshaw kept a carefully straight face. Nell said composedly that she would get out the rest of the letters. Ravenshaw stood at the window and watched a cruiser driving down San Diego bay, headed for Point Loma and the open sea. He did not admire the Navy, but for a moment he wished he were leaning on a rail watching San Diego drop down the curve of the world, away from the question of Nell Rowley. Oh well, he thought,the Navy served a purpose. If it didn't exist, the Army would have to invent it. Nell Rowley now, she boiled low and froze high and turned into a very funny kind of ice. She had been his secretary for eighteen months and together they had found a black box that delivered air from # feet up or water from # feet down. They had encountered a robot watchman redesigning common household appliances to standards of its own technology. Most recently they had scrambled through the infinite worlds together. Sometimes, at night, Ravenshaw awoke, taut with alarm, and turned on the radio and a pot of coffee to reassure himself he was a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army on. special duty and was safe in his own apartment in his own world. attracted the lightning bolts or if the endeavor was mutual. Presumably she was a Mier, a member of a family or tribe or race from an alternate world, but her memory had been blanked out as a child and Ravenshaw lived in anticipation of the day it would return. "Nameless dread," he said wryly. Nell tapped on the door and announced Mr. Timberline Binghorst. Binghorst walked into the room, said, "Heh, heh -- " and blushed. He wore store clothes, a hairy double-breasted blue suit, probably purchased for an occasion thirty years before. His shirt was pale yellow and his fruitbowl tie had slipped off center. He said, "Heh, heh -- " again and Ravenshaw asked him to sit down. "I won't take much of your time,!' Binghorst began in a voice likje rocks rolling down a distant canyon. "Heh, heh." He cleared his throat and started again. "I read about you in the San Diego Union because I have a friend who works in the maifroom and Ben Knell thinks the Union has a better flavor than most, so sometimes when we're snuggled around the Ashley with the snow hip-high IF outside and we're tired of Clarence E. Mulford -- " He ran out of breath and panted, his brown eyes beseeching Ravenshaw for patience. He took a deep breath and started again like a man running uphill. "It's just that we live at Red Warrior in the Pine Valley Mountains in Washington County Utah not awfully far from St. George but the road is pretty rough even with the 'dozer work I had done last spring because it was a highwater year and made the Narrows so infernally rough I hung up on the gearcase -- and almost busted the housing -- and after that -- I said to myself -- " He was distressed that he had to stop to breathe again. "I have a house in St. George," said Ravenshaw kindly, "just off Tabernacle on Third West. I inherited it when my wife died. It's a yellow waterstone built in the nineties." "My wife's father and uncle were Mormon -- Zadok and Sylvanius Sandler -- " "Syl and Zad, old, old friends! Dead now. My, but this is nice, Mr. Ravenshaw. Oh, but that Syl was comical! He said there were four liars in Washington County and I was one and Zad was the other three!" The old man laughed joyously. "Once Zad returned from Cedar City and said the people there mistook him for Syl and Syl said quick as a wink, Tm just as ashamed of it as you are!"' Binghorst choked with joy and Ravenshaw grinned in sympathy. "Oh, that Sylvanius Sandler! He was laid up on his death bed and somebody remarked he couldn't get around as well as he used to. Know what Syl said? He said, 'If my fool body could keep up with the dictates of my head, I could still get over this country better' n a mountain goat.' Indeed I do, I miss them both. So you knew the Sandler boys! Married Zad's girl, didn't you? Big eyes, bundle of springs, whip bright?" Ravenshaw nodded. "How this takes me back. Sylvanius, he was a comical fellow. Oh, years ago, he took some grain to Stanley Mossis to have it ground to flour. Syl became impatient and said, 'Damn it, Stanley, you grind so slow that I could eat that flour as fast as you grind it.' Stanley wanted to know, 'For how long?' And Syl, he said, 'Until I starved to death!"' The old man laughed until he had to wipe his eyes with a blue bandana. "Ah, Mr. Ravenshaw, it's a great pleasure to meet home people in a big city like San Diego." "How can I help you here, Mr. Binghorst?"   thing on my mind besides reminiscences." The old man blew his nose on the bandana. He explained he had been clearing out an abandoned stope and had come across an old trunk Zadok Sandler had stored there when he had left the country for California. It was filled with oddments of no particular value, but it also contained Zadok's journals. Binghorst leaned forward, his hands on his knees. "You see, that's the entire point. Ben Knell and me's the only ones left at Red Warrior. The road's twenty-seven miserable miles to St. George and in the winter there's not much to do, so I suppose we read over the journals twothree times. There's something naggy , something I can't quite see, and I am troubled in myjnind. Ben Knell would be rolling cigarettes on his machine out of the San Diego Union and we'd both be puzzling away -- and I still don't know what the matter is." "What sort of man was Cay's father?" "Quiet, quirky, fifteen years younger than Syl. Oh, for instance, he speculated on the names of things. He wanted to hire a pharmaceutical house to manufacture liquid hair soap so he could jokes, like the summer of 'fortyone when he bought a pound of columbine seed wholesale. McKana's Improved, I think the name was. Went into the Sierras after tungsten and sprinkled the seed all up and down Mono Creek and the Recesses where columbines grow. Said the native flower was pale gold and all the reds and purples and pinks ought to pop peoples eyes. He found scheelite so far back and high up nobody could get at it. "Another thing Zad did was paint apples. Down in Santa Clara they grow very sprightly apples. He stirred up some whitewash and painted punkin faces on Romes and twenty-ounce and Wolf Rivers over at the top end of Mother Jepperson's place when the fruit was a month from harvest. Just before picking time, he went in and wiped off the whitewash -- and left the pale jack o' lantern face on the red skins. Caused a stirNever knew who did it until I read his journal." "What would you like me to do, Mr. Binghorst?" "Well sir, I'm not a poor man. Even at thirty-five dollars an ounce, Ben Knell and me shoot just twice a year. Then we high-grade and concentrate and go over to Denver to the mint. Me and my partner bought the discovery mine when all the smart fellas quit." Binghorst stuck out his tongue and raised his eyebrows in mock surprise. "Don't really need to shoot twice, but it makes a change. So I can indulge myself." He took a record book out of his coat pocket. It was five by six and half an inch thick. "I'd like you to read it, Mr. Ravenshaw. This is IF the last one, nineteen-forty to nineteen-forty-one. What will it cost?" "Nothing. It might take a while." "No-no, whatever' s right. I am not easy in my mind." "How do I get in touch with you?" "Qh, Sylvanius! I do miss him." The old man's voice was gentle and his smile was very sweet. "Somebody asked Syl how the weather was on Pine Mountain and he said, 'We have nine months of hard winter and three months of damnlate-in-the-fall.' It snowed after we got out and we can't get in a while. Just write to St. George." in the back seat of the # Cessna. She had folded her windbreaker for a pillow and wore a plaid wool shirt that would drive a Scotchman to drink. Ravenshaw looked through the window and marveled that the pioneers ever reached the Pacific. This section of desert was desolate and deserted as it had been a hundred years before. The sun flooded the cabin as they flew east at # feet at nine on a Saturday morning. The pilot chewed gum, watched the instruments and the sky, listened to his earphones and occasionally adjusted the trim. He was a fine, narrow-minded young man, interested only in flying. Ravem shaw approved of him, however dubious he might be about the trip. General Craddock woke him at six with a report on Cassandra Investments. Alonzo Johnson owned a string of newspapers in Nebraska and the Dakotas. Brander Lugard had been chief of the Charleston Port Authority. Cyrus Pfister had built a medical supply house into a mini-conglomerate that dominated certain phases of the industry. "How about Jain?" said Ravenshaw. "Georgia Christian College, Rochester Institute of Technology, University of Chicago. That's a mixed bag. A commodity speculator, presidential economic advisor. World Bank expert. A very sharp and shifty sort of man." Asabian was a highway contractor, Milias was railroads. DeWitt, Masterson and Roehlich, O'Conner, Taddonio and Levering, all were low-profile success stories. They were models of financial acumen, but in some aspects, slippery as greased pigs. Jain had once kept a mistress in all the Bowash cities and, when threatened by a blackmailer, had said, "Publish and be damned." The invulnerability each man made for himself seemed to be a common factor. "Mummery is a wild westerner, old school. He was up and down in sheep and cattle and minerals until the war made him sell. He parlayed that money into a fortune when the Salt Lake exchange went wild with uranium in the early 'fifties. He's into primary resources now, and holds things together with an agrochemical company in Stockton." Ravenshaw asked if Cassandra had cooked the books and Craddock replied if they had, they were combing them. He asked what was him about the man growing Holland cucumbers in an old citrus packing shed under red and blue lights. Ravenshaw had told the grower that incandescents gave off the same colors and the system was not patentable. The man accused him  of floccinaucinihilipilification and he condescended to explain it was the action or habit of estimating as worthless. "So maybe I'm overreacting to the charge. I'm going on a wild hare chase in a couple of hours. I made a deal with Fabio Marquien for his plane and a pilot. I'm victim of my expressed opinion that I should be Johnny at the rathole." at an Italian restaurant and told her about Binghorst. She asked to see the journal while they were waiting for the pizza. Ravenshaw studied the Lombardy poplars on the wall, and the sheep and shepherdess with a rougish twinkle in her eyes, while Nell looked through the old record book. She read by the light of a candle stuck in a wax-encrusted bottle. Her palomino hair was in disarray and her jumper, if he had the term right, was just as handsome a weave as Binghorst's suit. Her eyebrows were mahogany brown and smooth and her lashes cast shadows on her cheeks. She looked up and Ravenshaw's heart stopped beating. "Listen to this," she said. "May fifth, nineteen-forty. Germany invades Holland, Belgium and Luxemburg. The cold war is hot. I have no faith in Gamelin or Weygand. Cay asked why I was so excited by a war five thousand miles away. Must get new battery for allwave Zenith. Mucked out today. Drill tomorrow." How could he ever have thought her voice high when it was silky velvet? Pitched above middle register, it had a sheen like sun through a bottle of clover honey. "September twenty-two, nineteen-forty. Kraut-Wop-Jap pact. Should not familiarize the enemy. Now it's sure we won't keep out of the war. School people agree Cay can stay at Red Warrior as long as Betty will teach. They supply books. Betty was onstage when Melchior watched the swan boat pull out ahead of time. How odd to have an opera star at Red Warrior and teacher for Cay." Her honey voice had lime in it, or lemon, or alum or quinine. Ravenshaw relaxed. A voice like IF cough syrup, that's what. "Are you listening?" She marked a page with a finger. She had violet eyes that ranged from soft lavander to purple. "Do you want to know what happened on December second? I'll tell you what, Arleigh. Pearl Harbor." "Sure. Zadok's interests were Cay, the war and mining." "December . second? Pearl Harbor?" "Uh-oh. I see what you mean." "And I don't think the Germans invaded Russia on June seventeenth. If the error's constant, he's always five days off." "That could be what puzzled Binghorst. Wait a minute -- I know -- Zadok had a nineteenthirty-five calendar in nineteen forty. "Sure he did. And he used the. same calendar in nineteen-forty one." "Nineteen-thirty-six would keep the five-day differential. Binghorst said Zadok had a fey sense of humor. Quirky practical jokes a specialty of the house. This is a chuckle from beyond the grave, that sort of thing." "Are you being intentionally obtuse? Sometimes you are. Just suppose you could see five days into the future." " 'If you're smart, why ain't you rich?' " said Ravenshaw. "When her father died, was your wife poor?" "We were married a year later. Now look, Nell. The old man played the market. He went down to Fresno once a week and sat around at brokerage house. Cay got a fat wad of stocks and more money than anyone ever figured. But tell me this, if Zad could read the future, why should he piddle around with mines? I don't believe it." "Arleigh, are you rich?" "It runs to pie i la mode , if that's what you want." "Arleigh, why have you stayed in the Army?" "Just so I could meet you," he said promptly. "You're a devious man." She leaned back. "An evasive scoundrel." Ravenshaw sighed heavily. "There used to be a popular philosophic ploy called free will versus predestination. It was just as much fun as counting angels on the point of a pin -- " "Arleigh -- " "All right. I suppose we'd better look at the other journals. Thank God, here's the pizza. I'm hungried to death." G eneral craddock had listened to all this and said, "Give a man enough rope and he can tie it around his world and measure it." "Isn't there something about hanging himself?" "Then hang loose," the general had said and hung up. They were flying over Lake Mead now, the rock hills turned into peninsulas and the barren valleys into ragged coves by the startling blue water. The day was speckless. Boulder City was a sharp miniature in the crisp air. Ravenshaw studied the map and asked, "Could we cut over by Pine Valley Mountain?" The pilot said, "It's a little uphill. Ten-three, isn't it?" Ravenshaw said he didn't want to fly over, just parallel the range on the Pirte Valley side for a few minutes, then back and south to St. George. The pilot said, "No sweat." The Virgin River gorge made Ravenshaw glance at the snug interior of the plane, but the instrument panel with the full avionic pack, the toggles, switches and dials did not reassure him when he looked down again at the choppedup land. He was intricately packaged, but he was conscious of the fragility of his protection. The amazing red sandstone country crawled lumpily below and built to the sweep of Pine Valley Mountain. While, the canyons were dun atid black with brush and evergreens, every shelf and valley was white with snow. "Maybe we've had a nice outing," he said to Nell. "Enjoy the scenery." They banked and went downhill to St. George. The Temple was white and the cliffs were red, the cottonwoods and poplars were leafless. The landing gear clunked and they set down at the airport. They taxied to the tie-down line and the pilot said he'd get gas and lunch and maybe a nap. A medium-sized helicopter with private markings was being fueled by a small tanker. Standing to one side was a lean figure in cavalry twill pants and coat. The man had a paisley scarf at the open neck of his shirt. He said, "Hello, Mr. Quintard," and touched the brim of his dove-gray Stetson. Gray eyes in a gray, seamed face. Austin Mummery. IV had #-# hindsight. He could have said, "Nice to see you -- " and gone his way. When Mummery said he was going over to Red Warrior to check the cabin after last week's blizzard, Ravenshaw might have said it was a fine day to fly up to Salt Lake City. Mummery said he had grubstaked Timberline Binghorst years before and they were partners in a mine. He had flown over from his ranch up Meadow Valley Wash from Glendale and why didn't they come along to Red Warrior with him? I # mph and they might enjoy the, experience. So, like a cheerful idiot, Ravenshaw told his pilot they'd be back IF in a couple of hours and the pilot said if they were delayed, the Cessna flew well in the dark and he liked instrument flying. Mummery introduced them to Ned Vasu, his pilot, a Filipino whose parents had come to Wenatchee before the war. He had learned to fly in the Army and had spent three years in Germany. He was a quiet man with an impassive face and obviously an expert. The Aloutte rolled ten feet and bounded into the air. The noise level was lower than Ravenshaw had expected and there were none of the windleaks he associated with helicopters. Flying a bird was the same as patting your head and rubbing your stomach. Mummery explained. It took dexterity and timing to handle the cyclic stick, the collective stick and the foot pedals all at once. "It's expensive in time to learn," he said, "and you've got to ration time. I'll never be a lapidary because I can't afford the patient hours. Options close in as you get older." Ravenshaw said, "Hadn't we better turn north?" "We'll run over to the ranch for lunch," said Mummery. His hooded eyes were not smiling. "No way," said Ravenshaw. "Turn this thing around. My time won't wait for lunch." "Nor for any man. Colonel Ravenshaw?" "Back to St. George." Ravenshaw unlatched his seat belt. "Relax and enjoy, " said Mummery. He had an old SW revotver in his hand. "You are being kidnaped." The gun had a bore like a sewer pipe. "Fasten your belt. No shenanigans or I'll plug your girl first." Ravenshaw raised his voice. "Vasu! They jug accessories." "Mr. Vasu came to me from Ft. Leavenworth on the intercession of a quite influential congressman. Ned, is there anything critical in that panel under the window?" "Only insulation, sir."  "Then don't be surprised." Mummery squeezed the trigger. The bullet grazed Nell's knee. Ravenshaw surged against his belt and dropped back. His ears rang. The .# was fastened on him. Mummery coughed. Nell was white, staring at the rip in her pants and the blood beginning to seep from the scratch. Mummery coughed again as the fumes sucked out. "That should establish my bona fides. Don't delude yourself. I was curious enough after our first meeting to put men at the airports. Holloman lost himself at O' Hare, but Quintard turned into Ravenshaw in San Diego -- and he turned out to be a mysterious Army officer who was once married to Zadok Sandler's daughter." Nell patted the slow seep of blood with a handkerchief. Ravenshaw turned his attention back to the mad old man. At the same time he went onto war status. Perhaps it showed, because Mummery's big hand tightened on the pistol grip. "What do you have in mind?" asked Ravenshaw. "Friendly persuasion." Air whistled through the hole in the panel. "Stuff your handkerchief in there, girl." Nell did as she was Mummery smiled and Ravenshaw noted that only his teeth and eyes were unwrinkled. "You are going to tell me about the alternate worlds and how to get there." "You've flipped your wig." "Lace your fingers behind your head, Ravenshaw. Don't  fiddle with the belt. The life you save may not be your own. I don't like waste, but there are lots of scrubby women around." straggled over her face; one shoulder and elbow were pulled in toward her body. She looked like a charwoman after a twelve-hour shift. She may have convinced Mummery, but Ravenshaw thought she was as frightened as a nest of hornets. "My colleagues at Cassandra are resigned to fate," said Mummery in tones of sweet reason, "except for Jain -- and I beat him to the punch. No question, the great achievement of the human brain is association, the assembly of disparate facts to a purpose. What good is bumbling, innocent Binghorst, or Sandler's crazy journals mildewing in a stope. Good for bait. Before we land, we'll radio your pilot and tell him to drop off your bags at McCarran in Las Vegas and to go on home." The revolver cracked again. The cut on Nell's knee was paralleled by another. Mummery coughed and his eyes watered. The pistol did not waver. "I'll tolerate no more tomfoolery," he told Nell. "Next time I take off your kneecap." "I duh-duh-didn't mean anything," she blubbered. "You're raising hell with a good secretary," said Ravenshaw. "You won't be needing one -- unless you cooperate." "A carrot (or the donkey -- what's in it for me?" "Surcease," said the old man. "And if you can persuade me to it, something better. I have only the simplest inducements to offer: food, water and warmth. That ought to be enough." He glanced through the window and back at Ravenshaw. "We're over the Tule Desert now and we'll land on the Meadow Valley side of Mormon Mountains. There's an old line house by a spring. Remote, isn't it?" There was no sign of a road, not even a game trail. Snow salted the tops of the ranges. Clouds were gathering to the north. It was lonesome lost country where in IF summer a coyote would pack a canteen. Vasu was mumbling into the mike about St. George and Las Vegas and leaving gear at McCarran. Mummery said, "About a week ago Ned and I sawed off four-foot lengths of light rail -- fifty pound -- and fixed them in concrete. Got some old logging chain and welded it to the tops of the posts, six inches off the ground. It's twenty-foot chain and the spring is thirty feet away. Got some cuffs and tacked them on. One post on each side of the little creek. Nothing fancy. You can listen to the water until it freezes. When you want to talk with me. I'll be in the cabin drinking coffee." "What do you want?" said Ravenshaw. "Twenty or thirty or fifty years." The old man was in dead earnest. "Is it a gate? A door? An entrypoint at Forrestal? Or is that a stinking red herring? I don't expect a fountain of youth. Maybe Jain had that in mind. There have got to be worlds where a man is not cut off in his prime. Too much to ask? I think not." That answered General Craddock's question about price. Mummery wanted something money couldn't buy. The helicopter was descending. Ravenshaw caught a look at a crooked stream in the bottom of the valley. Beyond, on a low mesa, was a large house with outbuildings. Jn the clear air he could see a caterpillar tractor painted cat-yellow by a corral. Dust swirled as they hovered a few feet above the ground. They landed -- whup-whup, whup -- the bird was quiet. Ned Vasu flicked switches. In a careful ritual dance, he stepped behind Mummery and opened the door, never blocking the pistol. Mummery ordered his guests to the ground. "Don't make a break for it. I gave the hands a week off with pay. There's nobody around for twenty miles minimum." The air was sharp and smelled of snow and sagebrush. Nell winced as she stepped down. Mummery backed off and Vasu stood slightly to his rear. The Aloutte was across the creek from the old line shack and Ravenshaw got a good look at the posts and chains. The ground was sandy and had been cleared of brush. Thunder grumbled miles away. The little creek was rimed at the edges and the white trunks of the bare aspens made the landVasu stepped behind Mummery and whipped an arm around his neck, seized his right wrist and bent it behind his back. The cabin door opened and Swafford Jain walked toward them, an incongruous figure in high-laced boots of another age, whipcord breeches and a cashmere sweater under an old duffle coat. He wore a sheathed hunting knife. He carried a pump shotgun as if he knew how to use it. "Join your friends, Austin," said Jain. Vasu had the .#. Mummery stumbled over to Ravenshaw and Neil, coughing and rubbing his wrist. "Two items to mull over in hell, Austin," said Jain, swiveling his head like an owl. "Ned is tired of driving your chopper and the important figure in our little puzzle is Holloman -- General Bill Craddock in real life. You should # not be taken in by appearances." He pushed his fur cap back on his polished hair. "I can do without the three of you." He raised his shotgun. The stakes were high. He was a pragmatic old man. Nell switched worlds., V Ravenshaw off his feet. A shotgun bellowed. He was in the middle of a melee and he got up with a broken branch in his hand. A man in mottled brown and red came at him and Ravenshaw broke the length of punky aspen on his head. The man went down. Over the grunts and blows and shouts of the donnybrook came a whooping, steamy whistle -- whoo-woo, whoo wow, A man in green spun him around and Ravenshaw mashed his nose sideways with the heel of ' his hand. He caught a glimpse of Nell being dragged off before he was blindsided and hit dirt. His fingers closed over the shotgun barrel. The stock was bent but solid. He swung it right and left with satisfying thunks and shoved the butt into the stomach of a man who staggered into Austin Mummery and knocked him over. The whistle sounded again. The fight stopped as suddenly as Ravenshaw got into it. Men in red and brown ran downhill to a peculiar vehicle with a fiat platform. It began to move with a stately achoof-achoof noise. Jain had been dragged aboard with Nell. Ravenshaw ran toward it and sprawled over a body. The platform picked up speed on eight big wheels, mashing the sagebrush, lurching and creaking at # mph. "My God, what's happened?" Mummery clutched his arm. "Where did all those crazy Indians come from?" "Custer's last words," snapped Ravenshaw. The man who had tripped him was Ned Vasu, dead and already dusty with a shotgun blast in his chest. Mummery was babbling. The old nan drew back in alarm when Ravenshaw pulled away, and did not follow him down the slope. No one followed. Ravenshaw jogged through the sagebrush, thinking about the revolving barrel at the funhouse in Santa Cruz. Once you slipped, there was no way to go but head over heels until you found your feet again. Nell Rowley had the preIF posterous ability to slip into the infinite worlds with as much effort as falling through tissue paper hoops. He did not know how she did it, he only knew he had the nightmare sensation of being dropped into the middle of noontime Istanbul with no trousers. A worse nightmare was being separated from Nell and marooned in an alternate world. A wide shallow river ran down the valley with flourishing cottonwoods on either side. The sage was tall) and the bunch grass thick. Aspen and low oak grew on the slopes. The leaves were just beginning to turn color and this country obviously had more rainfall than his own world. The mechanical platform disappeared behind a low hill and Ravenshaw dropped to a walk with a stitch in his side. Beyond the river was a rise to a bench, a low mesa with broken hills beyond. There were two long, enormous blurs on the bench, unlike anything he had ever seen before. A smaller blur squatted between the two. The sun was warm and the temperature in the seventies; there were no heat mirages and the air was crystal. The platform forded the river and struggled slowly up the slope on the other side. The passengers dismounted and pushed. He could see them clearly against the long reach of the northern blur. A shallow wash meandered to the river and he stopped into a clump of screwbeans and looked back. Austin Mummefy was walking with some men in green. Even a half-mile away he looked chirlcy as a cricket. Ravenshaw waited until Mummery and his friends crossed the river and made their way up the rise. Ravenshaw went up to his chin in a channel near the far shore. There was no footpath and no road. He climbed the slope and crawled to the crest. T HE mesa had been leveled, but the ground was gullied to within a hundred yards of the blur. A concrete apron ran to the reach of his fuzzy vision. It was broken back here and there, in spite of a riprap and gravel base. He had a corner view of the enigma. It was rectangular and ran half a mile to the west and a full mile south. The middle blur was much smaller and oval in shape. He stood and followed the concrete apron south, to cut the tracks of the lumbering steam vehicle. There were no friendly beer cans or gum wrappers. A low dune of rippled sand ran for two hundred yards along the blur, piled there by some subtlety of wind and configuration. He walked over a stretch of mud puddled halfway up the sloping concrete, curled and crazycracked since the last rain. The wall was sixty feet high and cast a shadow beyond the river by the time he crossed the tracks. The tracks ran near the end of the structure and vanished into the blur. Ravenshaw examined the building closely for the first time. He tossed a rock at it. The stone slowed and fell to the ground. He broke a switch and poked. It was the same as poking a pound of butter on a boulder. When he whipped the branch, the energy of its motion was soaked up before it reached the surface. He had seen this phenomenon once before in the protective clothing worn by a man who called himself a Drishna. It was evidently a physical principle unexploited on his own world. Because he was unable to knock and there was no doorbell, he continued around the structure. The south side was also featureless. He thought a strobe light might help and blinked, but he was not in any kind of synchronization. He reached the southwest corner and walked off the concrete for a better view. The terrain was irregular at a slightly lower level than the pad. If he crossed to the hills, he could at least see over the wall. They were a mile away but he get a look before dark. Ravenshaw found himself walking in an area intricately intercut by vertical channels. Sparse brush and a few rocks dotted the top; the cuts in the hard white clay bottomed out at twenty to twentyfive feet. The sun set and a few pink clouds reflected from the water standing at the bottom of a little gorge. He scrambled down for a drink. His thirst satisfied, he continued along the narrow trench to an intersection with another and followed it upstream to meet a blank wall. He returned to the first channel, missed his way. It was almost dark before he made it to the surface. A chilly wind had picked up, but he stood and thought that he had put in an outstandingly stupid day. Given a choice, he unerringly picked the door that dropped a bucketful of slop on his head. He groped for a handful of rocks and pitched one at a darker patch. It rattled down the side of a cut. He broke a branch of brittle wood and had to cut the leathery bark with his knife. He tasted the cambium and it was bitter. He thought of long-rats, the freeze-dried long range patrol rations issued by the army in Vietnam. He wished he were there and poked ahead with his stick. Eleanor Farjeon said. The night will never stay I The night will still stars You pin it to the sky... Ravenshaw thought this was a damn lie. It was the dark of the moon and the night had gone on for several weeks. He felt like a printed man in a maze puzzle for children: Little Arleigh wants to  get into the picture. Pick up your pencil and help little A rleigh. self that he was standing on a IF surface totally surrounded by moats. It was impossible. He tossed a pebble. He could touch the other side with his stick. He jumped in the dark and sprawled on another impossible tabletop. On legs rubbery from hunger, he followed a gray streak that led into a gorge. He could see the North Star and much good it had done him. He had been as directional as a hot Mexican jumping bean. The wind was cutting cold. The walls rose on either side. He stepped into ankel-deep mud and was too tired to swear. A little later his foot slipped and he sat down in water. He was not as tired as he thought. He got up vigorously and bumped like a bee in a bottle between the clay walls. He hit a dead end, swore and turned back, turned around and threw a rock at it. Clang . The bottom of the metal door was chin high. This particular cut in the clay was four feet wide, so he gouged steps in either wall with his knife and did the splits up to a bar in the middle of the door. The step caved away, the bar tilted and he fell to the muddy bottom. When he squirmed through on the next, try, the door closed on the small of his back, leaving his mug tangled with a short ladder inside and his wump dangling. He was in a dark tunnel. He could scrape his Fingers and whack his head at the same time. Prudence made him crawl along the rough bottom. When his knees gave out, he walked backward painfully, like a bear. It was bitter cold and when he kicked the end of the tunnel, he was surprised he did not shatter like a Dresden Figurine. He wanted to smile until he stood and hit his head against a metal rod. It was the rung of a Fixed ladder and he climbed itr It went straight up for eight miles and when he topped out, his muscles were trembling uncontrollably. When the twitches were spasmodic, he found he was in a closet about Five by eight with a low ceiling of slats. The walls were made of large smooth rectangles. He groped around, nearly felj down the shaft and found a rectangle with fingerholds in it. A plug came out of the wall, letting in blessed light. He squeezed into the hole and found himself looking at cardboard boxes across a width of floor: Goodbody and Son, Calcutta, Arizona. Select, Choice, Tenderfresh Collard Greens. He closed the door through which he had squirmed. It was the middle case of a pallet load marked: Kohlrabi. Greens were piled three tiers high on either side. He walked to a cross aisle past case after case of Cardoon, Salsify, Florence Fennel and Spinach Dock, none of which interested him. Across the aisle were Broad Beans in Ham Gravy. He climbed twelve feet to the top pallet with only a glance at the blurred wall in the distance. The cartons were not cardboard, but honeycomb plastic, and opened by turning an inset circle at either end of the case. The cans were institutional size, square and also plastic. They opened with a finger ring. It was almost warm so close to the dim ribbon lights in the ceiling. He ate a quart of beans with his fingers. He was thirsty, but he stretched out on top of the cases. He kicked the can of beans over the edge. He blinked his eyes. He fell asleep. people had memorable dreams, but his own experience lay on what Nell Rowley once called "the shores of sleep." He slept and his mind made figures of dreamdust in the hypnogogic state, the return to wakefulness after sleep. His wife had black eyes and shining black hair. Her face was triangular and she moved like a dancer. When she stopped, she stopped like a statue. She spoke in a grumbly lovely voice without punctuation. He learned to listen to the melody as much as the sense. She strutted when she walked, went willowy when she chose, danced as she pleased: lady, loose lady or gamin. She had died instantly of an embolism while throwing dishes ten years before. Cay Ravenshaw had been quick as sunlight through shadows, salt and sweet, with facets like a handful of emeralds. He remembered her beside a bed of tall cannas, red and yellow in the Oklahoma sun, caught with the flowers in an afternoon stillness. He saw her slim white body like a white velvet otter in the warm, willow-scented Nacimiento River on the valley side of the Hearst San Simeon estate. He was drowsily pleased with this true color representation. There had been other occasions when the topic was handled in offpurple hues to illustrate her chancy temper and blind demands for a better moon. There is a lady sweet and kind Was never face fo pleased my mind... He murmured the words aloud. palomino without a fadeout or any prqper transition. Almost awake, he was too wary to unbridle his imagination. He opened his eyes. A woman was sitting crosslegged on top of Broad Beans and Ham Gravy, looking at him, statue still. "You are a horrible sight," she observed, "muddy and. mazed and bean-bespattered." Ravenshaw stifled a groan. "I hurt, too," he said. "What's to be done and wearydeary," she grumbled. "I prowl for pleasure and this is the onus of conspiracy and no benefit from it. I set a turkel to scrubbling your beans and mess from another world, no doubt. Oh willow woe," IF she said, "is me." Her eyes betrayed her languishing speech. They snapped with excitement. "Excuse the expression," said Ravenshaw, "But where am I?" "In twenty-three-Kah-eight-seven-two." He waited and wondered if the sensation in his chest were fibrillation. She was very much like his memory of Cay, vivid as the arc of an electric welder. She was also a little grimy. The smudge on her cheek and the dirt under her fingernails were misplayed notes in a symphony -- oboe or contrabassoon. "This is the One Generation New World and I am of that generation. If of an equal age, you wear less well than we." "What is a One Generation New World?" She looked to be in her early twenties. He ignored her grubby appearance and admired her straight-backed, crosslegged grace. "We were set as babes on a multiple world with the bent philosophic to perfection in secret- -- " Ravenshaw groaned. "Will you start from the beginning?" She spoke slowly to a backward child, "A Floridian spirited to Cheyenne will be Cheyennese. A child of Texas grown in Boston will be cod-stiff and constant to its guidance. Or should the son of the King at Bonneville be childhoodwould he not on all counts but color be conformable to his upbringing?" She rubbed her nose with her wrist. "Therefore in us, the folly of our fathers is extirpated. We are the men beyond man, the ideal realized, experiment perilous carried to glorious fruition." "I'm thirsty," said Ravenshaw, who had his doubts. He swung his legs around and hung over the edge of the cases on his stomach. "'An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, whether his clothes be green or scarlet,'" he said and climbed down to the floor. "Does this brave new world have a bath in it?" S HE dropped beside him, nimble as a boy. "You are besotted with dirt and ignorance, an immensely improvable subject for the huffinpuffin," she said with a flash of white teeth. She wore a rust and gold garment, a close fitting jumpsuit with stretch materia) at the waist and shoulders. She turned down the canyon of boxes, around corners and to a narrow transparent door in a thick cross wall. When Ravenshaw hesitated, she. stepped into the cubicle herself. Dust sprang out in a cloud and was sucked through the floor. He would not easily forget her eyes squinneyed shut in her gamin face and the black sunburst of her hair. He found the huffinpuffin much like a sandstorm. The external mud fell into clay and sand components, there was a smell of ozone and his hair stood out from his head. "Water solves thirst, too," he said. "I feel scraped." "Water is an emotional concept currently but in allowance of obligation and generosity as well, I have potables stashed." She banged a vertical panel and a large door slid open, leading to another room piled high with boxes. They zigzagged through different sorts of vegetables, evidently more popular than those in the warehouse they had left. Ravenshaw stopped and quenched his thirst with a can of orange-colored tomatoes from a broken stack of boxes. She opened a can and ate a tomato, threw the rest away. A humped, rectangular machine hauling a caboose crawled down the aisle, scuffed up the spilled tomatoes, swallowed the can and left the floor clean and shining. She said turkels wopld eat anything, but tomatoes were too lumpy for her, just like the lake, and led him to a narrow room with dusty forklifts along a wall. The girl rummaged in a cupboard behind spare parts and brought out two tall cans. A flattish tube emerged when he pulled the tab. It was divided into larger and smaller sections and when he drank, alcohol and pineapple juice mingled in his mouth. She said she had hidden the drinks three years before when it became obvious that desirable items were in shorter supply. In a closed system there was no replacement. And she did miss swimming. Ravenshaw asked how it could be a closed system when he had seen men outside? She choked and spluttered. She jumped to the floor and ran down a corridor and through a room filled with bales of cloth, into another with pipes and plumbing fixtures racked in rows, and turned abruptly into an area piled at haphazard with boxes. She danced over, around, through and across them with sure feet. Ravenshaw followed until she brushed three stacked containers that poured out feathered, scarlet balls. The girl was gone by the time he blundered through them. So was his sense of direction. less rooms. There wlas no sound but his own footsteps in the whole enormous warehouse. The pattern of storage was random from his worm's eye view and he felt like a bug walking over a blueprint. He stifled a feeling of panic when he thought of Nell Rowley and took the only sure direction open to him. When he founds stairs or ramps or a circular staircase, he went up. He stopped in a congeries of rooms that held him in horrid fascination. He interpreted them as roboticized nursIF cries with mimic mothers grown dusty beside individual pens. One of the figures said, "You must take your nap, dear," and advanced toward him. He fled in panic. The air was motionless and the floors were spotless, but when mother moved silently toward him her figure was alive with dust. He ran across padded floors and infant toys into an artificial turfed gymnasium and lost the series when a corridor opened to an S-curved space with toys and games suitable for ten-year-olds. There was a row of booths against a wall and when he sat on a low bench at a table, a door closed and he was trapped. A panel opened and he was served a peanut butter sandwich and a glass of milk. His mouth was dry and the milk helped the peanut butter down. When he returned the plate and glass to the recess, the panel closed and the door opened. A voice said, "Good child." He wondered if the children had dreamed of people behind walls, and decided that by ten they would be conditioned to accept taped voices. He tried anbther booth and was served the same menu. He was trapped again and ate the sandwich but did not finish the milk. He thought milk was great for young cows. The door did not open when he returned the glass to the recess. He spilled it on the floor and a small turkel scrubbed up the mess. A voice said, "Finish your milk, dear -- " and he was served a full glass. He drank it and got out. A little later he was caught in a study carrel. The voice had him solve problems in geometry with a stylus on a ground glass desk. The notation was different from his own, but the voice was patient and the explanation simple enough. The drawings remained until he tapped the erase bar. When the lesson was over he estimated the warehouse was five stories high and figured a little. He ended up with forty-three million plus square feet in the building. The Pentagon had six and a carrel and stayed out of similar traps. What if he had befcn stuck in a history class? He found a compass in a room stocked with supplies for simple physical experiments. He went east and down at every opportunity. He opened one more door and stepped outside. He was in an enormous enclosed park, with hillocks and trees and grass and rocks. He could see a strange green surface through a screen of trees. There were cabanas and tents and tree houses. At least a hundred people were in view in almost a hundred different costumes. They were in their early twenties, though the variety of clothes and hairstyles gave the illusion of a much wider age range. A few were gathered around a youngster dyed bright pink who was reading from a manuscript. A woman dressed in ribbons caught at her neck and ankles was working at a crude loom. A man in a full spade beard and a red-lined cape was swinging in a swing with his eyes shut. The park was in hard use and the grass was badly scuffed. A mechanical gardener, a variety of the turkel, was planting marigolds in blossom, followed by a girl who picked the flowers and tore them to shreds. It was a contented scene with little cohesion. A woman engaged with some sort of dice looked at Ravenshaw, shrugged and went back to her game. He walked two hundred feet to the screening trees and through them to the shore of a lake, where a large group was following the progress of a fourwheeled steam vehicle. It had a central steering bar and the girl in the jumpsuit was dancing around on the platform with a dozen others. The man at the tiller pulled a large lever and the thing whistled like a horsedrawn # popcorn wagon. The girl threw her arms around his neck as a wheel hit a rock and turned to the lake. Achoof-achoof it waddled into the thick water. The passengers jumped and struggled ashore through stinking mud, algae and ' weeds. There was an underwater explosion, an intense burp that bubbled the surface before it flung gollops of green-brown slime into the air. It was a spectacular and ridiculous performance that hypnotized Ravenshaw. He looked around just in time to see Austin Mummery swing a short baseball bat at his head. VI R avenshaw folded like a cardboard skeleton. He did not lose consciousness, but his thoughts went random. The old man doesn't pull his punches -- with a length of sausage -- tries to slam the ball into the centerfield stands -- a very sincere effort -- had to be a twenty-year-old sausage -- a picnic in the park with friends -- how nice...-. He was heaved upright by a couple of men on each arm. They marched him back into the building. He tried to keep his head from hobbling as he pedaled an invisible bicycle through what could have been a foyer if it had featured potted palms, through administrative offices to a large bare room lined with dull blue cabinets stuffed with electronic gear. Rows of jewel lights blinked; machined metal spools turned behind panels and a low drone filled the dry electric air. The room lurched. Ravenshaw screwed his eyes shut. He sat down abruptly, as a chair hit the back of IF his knees. His head lolled forward. He opened one eye to see an earnest young man with the tip of his tongue caught between his teeth walking around and around him in a dizzying pattern, and Ravenshaw was trussed with a white rope like a fly for a spider's dinner. Nausea surged and was gone. His eyes focused. Mummery was sitting in a cylinder of light. Ten feet away, Swafford Jain sat in another. They looked like two tomcats full of canaries. " -- so cream rises to the top," said Jain complacently. "Is your mechanical genius going to build another steam wagon?" "We have better equipment in storage and so do you," said Mummery. "There's a kind of flying carpet I want to check out." "What amazes me is the building -- the computer says the roof is laser-structured, absolutely dead flat -- have you poked around in your library yet?" "Enough to begin the lake. So much to do, so little time -- " "Time? Have you looked at the medical section?" "Hah!" said Mummery and both old men smiled. "But I do wish you had dedicated yourself to scholarly pursuits. Do you suppose a mechanical background is essential to -- " "Technical," said Jain. "Without a technical base you stand on an intellectual skateboard -- until you move. I wish you'd been an absentee rancher and market manipulator." "Too bad," said Mummery. He looked at Ravenshaw from his cylinder of light. "We'll take them one at a time, of course." "Certainly. If he wears out, we have the woman in reserve. We'll find their method yet. Austin, I congratulate you on the idea. If this were Rome, I'd call you P.T. Barnum. Give 'em circuses." Jain faded and the projection vanished in a twinkle of light. Mummery yawned as his own cylinder dimmed to the light level of the room. His eyes were hooded. Rameses Three brooded. Ravenshaw's head throbbed in a slow drumbeat. He regretted his tendency to see the infinite worlds as dismal fantasies on the part of the natives. He could not overcome the idea that this was a funny-money world. Funny-money, even though Ned Vasu had found death negotiable. He could even admire the old men for their catquickness to land on their feet. No energy wasted in recrimination. He had reservations about their situational estimate, but, tied to the chair, all he could do was sit tight His grin was sour. It was somehow comical that he had found the wrong warehouse -- he had had a choice of three structures -- after his search for Nell in the night and it was fairly humorous that Mummery had slugged him with a salami. It was less funny that this world's young inhabitants seemed to have fallen into line so easily with the suggestions of the two old men. Cream rises to the top . Granted that Jain and Mummery were charismatic characters, it was an accomplishment for them to have assumed authority here with such ease. He said as much to Mummery. "How about it?" "They are anarchists. They believe that everyone should do what he wants to do. The idea of common good is alien to them. They live in a vacuum of the present without historical perspective, so they have no judgment. Push the proper button and they drool like "Big deal, cleaning the lake. Why didn't they do it themselves?" "Change filter and flamer and flow patterns. I've been thinking about that. No responsibility? Every man his own master? They have no children to test themselves against -- something to do with the closed system -- so pride incurs no obligations and accepts none. Only  stranger can kick his way out of this paper bag." "They don't look stupid to me." "Ravenshaw, I wouldn't think you stupid leading a squad or maybe a platoon -- but I've noticed that army officers, clergy and professors always buy enough phony oil stock to paper their walls. You people live in a protected situation, inside a security framework, like monkeys in a zoo. You are public welfare cases. Me? I had to cut out a tin beak and peck around with the rest of the chickens." "So why did they fight at the springs -- when we first came here?" "That was a joint venture. A limited-liability company had gone out to get fresh water and exercise the eight-wheeled steam hoopee. Another band of gentleman adventurers jumped them. We just happened to show up in the middle. Ravenshaw, how did we get into this world? Tell me, and I'll arrange some accommodation." "Just lucky, I guess." The old man favored him with a basilisk glance and shrugged. "Call me stout Cortez," he said. "Pizarro is a real sweet guy, too," said Ravenshaw. "I'll miss your conversation," said Mummery, "but not much." He stood and stretched and left the room. T HE girl walked in and patted Ravenshaw's cheek as she crossed to the phone. She activated the light cylinder. A person appeared. Ravenshaw didn't care if the instrument was a vid or a seeeasy or an Ojo de Dios, an Eye of God. This was a funny-money world. Where was Nell Rowley? They ought to cut out of here. f The girl spoke to a man with red hair and a freckled face who appeared in the cylinder of light. "I IF think the woman is something called a Mier and they're a tricksome species. It turns out they disappear and the library hahs and hums about whys and hows and whatever -- keep an eye on her." Freckles leaned forward to touch controls. "She's solid enough," he said as the cylinder enlarged to include Nell. Nell had a stony expression. Her head stuck out of a box that was like a steam cabinet. She looked at Ravenshaw in his wrappings and smiled. "Well, Arleigh. Quite a world, isn't it?" "Amscray!" said Ravenshaw in a choked voice. "Utsnay," said Nell. "How do I get out of this box? Besides, I've been to a lot of trouble over you. I might not be able to get back." Colonel Ravenshaw said, "That's an order!" His detachment had vanished. It fried the edges of his soul to see Nell with her head sticking out of a box. He turned red, lurched forward and tumbled to the floor, chair and all. He got a sideways look at her eyes before Freckles dimished the cylinder to himself. He had never thought violet could be such a hot color. He was wet with sweat, " -- keep them around for jollies maybe, why not?" the girl said, and the projection faded. She walked over and nudged Ravenshaw with her toe. "Don't go away. A closed system needs variety and the entertainer should be worthy of his audience. Those two old men have amusing ideas and men are as alike as feathered balls and what does one ball more or less matter?" She hunkered down and regarded him more closely. "And yet -- you are a beast of some character -- who can tell? Raised under a different sun -- or the same sun -- there's disagreement on the question." She frowned. "Still, it might be best if you were scrubbed. Her words registered for later examination. Ravenshaw lay on the floor and repeated Nell's jingle. With all the intensity he could command, he wanted her back in their own world. He screwed down his eyelids until his eyes hurt. He had not forgotten a vivid picture she had once given him of a small girl in the shade of a chinaberry tree, singing a lonely song to her doll, Elinor: The worlds exist in the mind alone -- Who knows this truth can dance with fire Or fly through air or float on stone . They were not magic words that spilled you through worlds like a riffled deck of cards. The song was conditioning to the idea that infinite worlds existed thicker than fruit on a chinaberry tree. It might also indicate that labels of body and mind were devisive and if an individual held unity at a level of belief, such things as dancing with fire or jumping worlds or sailing on a boulder were possible. Id, ego, super-ego? Jargon. Don't look at the tree trunks or the snake or the wall of the building, dammit, look at the elephant whole. Then all worlds were funnymoney worlds, just like a Pancho Villa ten-peso note when Pancho himself presented it to a storekeeper. It was irrelevant that it was homemade. It was legal tender when backed by a .# revolver. If the storekeeper thought it was funny-money, he had a weak grip on reality. Go, Nell, go! Just because Ravenshaw had been an idiot when he stepped into the helicopter and it seemed inadvisable to change worlds in the air, and he was fuddled when Ned Vasu jumped Mummery all this was no reason why Nell should be stuck in a box. Go, Nell, go! Two husky young men heaved the chair back onto its legs. Ravenshaw opened his eyes because he had been washed over by a sense of comfort. He drew the conclusion that Nell had escaped, switched worlds, was out of danger. It was the same relief a skindiver knows after two minutes under water. Mummery was back in his chair talking with Jain. Jain enlarged the cylinder of vision and there was Nell Rowley with her eyes shut and a faint smile on her face, still prisoned in the box. rope and led him to another room, Ravenshaw waited until his reflexes seemed dependable before he kicked one in the stomach, backhanded another in the adam's apple and chopped the third under the ear with the side of his hand. Cay appeared and pointed to a door. He slammed it open and ran into a crowd. He turned and Cay had another gang of men running to meet him. It was a brief excursion into freedom. They spreadeagled him over their heads and carried him through the interminable warehouse. When one tired, another took his place. Ravenshaw had no idea that gripping hands could be so painful. They were whooping and yelling and singing, men and women, the whole mob, and all his addled brain could do was repeat, "If it wasn't for the honor of the thing -- if it wasn't for the honor of the thing -- " He was too scrambled to finish Mark Twain's remarks about the man tarred and feathered, riding on a rail. When he was stood on his feet with the world reeling around him, he knew he would rather be elsewhere -- except for the honor -- and he would have fallen to the floor except for two dozen hands supporting him. His vision cleared and he identified the wet stuff as a nose-bleed dripping off his chin. He might as well have stayed dizzy, because the building in which he found himself was unreasonable, unfamiliar and unlike anything in his experience. Bleachers followed the curve of the oval dome on either side, but between the tiered seats was a gulf, a void where a basketball court might have been. There was a pier, a stack, a tower in the middle, a central oval island rising from the depths, repeating the curve of the seats. The tunnel from the north was on the east side. The tunnel through which he had been hauled was to the right. The gulf was a constant width from one end of the building to the other. The roof arched overhead in the ambiguous blur. Latecomers straggled in. The bleachers were almost full. The spectators got to their feet when the doors of the tunnels closed. It was kickoff time. A cylinder of light appeared in the middle of the oval platform. A man with a benign expression stood there. His voice carried without distortion, but Ravenshaw could catch only parts of the speech, due to the tumult of boos and catcalls. " -- resources and ingenuity of our community -- twenty-six years in conception and planning, eight years to build and supply -- chosen genetic stock -- no immediate return from this colossal investment IF " When the audience chanted along with the speaker, Ravenshaw realized this must be a recording and wearisomely familiar. # -- transmogrified to men beyond man, mankind changed in one generation -- " He lost the rest in the hoots and shouting and caught only the conclusion. " -- so in trust and love, bless you, our children." The projection faded. A bridge like a tongue of steel arched to the island. It rose up and out, three feet wide with no rails. It was white and made a smooth join at the far side. First class engineering, was Ravenshaw's opinion. The girl who looked so much like Cay walked onto the island dressed in ice-blue, a shimmering garment that must have been uncomfortably tight from her toes to her neck, where it broke into a frothy collar framing her face in blue ice. She waited for relative quiet. "Anybody want to jump?" she said. "I deplore private suicide. It's deprivation of us all, selfish and a nuisance, and you might just as well make an occasion of this. If you need something fancier than jumping -- remember, only two people missed all the pipes and there's a challenge -- talk it over with your friends. The spirit of our new world demands a little consideration, not much maybe, but some. We'll arrange anything reasonable, hanging, head-chopping. whatever you want. Any takers?" She waited and said, "Second item's transfers. Come on over, anybody." Eleven men and women crossed the bridge and stood to one side. The girl stepped on and the bridge retracted. The bridge from the other side slid out to the island. Freckles rode it over. Eight people followed him and cleared the way for the transfers. "I have old business and continuing business and dammit," said Freckles. The gabble of the audience dropped. "I know we got entertainment tonight and I don't want to naggle anybody, but those clowns who busted out after water had a good time and a nice fight, but they're going to yince us up. Maybe a session tomorrow? Think about it, dammit -- we're either a closed system or we're not. They had us programed to bury seeds in the ground, dammit, three years ago dammit, and build houses arid raise kids and all that, and I still say the hell with it and those clowns are going to yince us up good. Think about it." His bridge sucked in and the girl's went out. The transfers walked over and found seats. She said, "Don't yell the bridge, the bridge at me because nobody's figured how to schtunk the system yet. Library says we're positive and negative and you shove something between and bang, it blows. And those guys who busted out found out how to bust out, so why worry about a bridge anyway?" There was a chorus of boos and die thumbed her nose at both sides. She stuck out her tongue, patted her head and pointed a finger down. That was evidently a ruder gesture because it was greeted with shouts of laughter and anger. "Fahngulah!" she said. A witty riposte, thought Ravenshaw, because everybody laughed. "Entertainment!" she yelled, and he was shoved onto the bridge. 'him forward. He stumbled and got a good ldok at an oily, churning liquid two hundred feet below. A wind sucked down. There was a maze of large and small pipes from the wall to the stack, color coded, entering at all angles and elevations. Offhand, he didn't believe a sockful of oatmeal could make it down to the liquid without hitting a pipe. A stick popped him in the neck and he wrenched it out of the hands of a man behind him, and staggered to the island. He turned to the girl, but she avoided him neatly. He could have tipped her into the void, but saw no point to it. When she cleared the bridge, a turkel started briskly up the far side. "This is a heat-seeker," said Mummery. "Don't suppose it's been activated for a coon's age." Ravenshaw found the old man directing a horn at him from the middle of the bleachers. "Big problem with warehousing is vermin. If the rats don't get you, the mice will." The turkel turned toward Ravenshaw as the bridge retracted. It spawned two sixteen-inch snakes before he got his stick under the edge and tipped it into the gulf. Three more wriggled out in the air. There was a cling-clangwhanging noise as they bounced on pipes. The snakes darted at him. They were covered with short, fine wire for traction; their microminiaturized sensing gear was elegant. When he tried to smash one with the stick, it avoided the blow and kept coming in. It chewed on his toe and he stomped it with the other foot. He bent down and swept off the second with his stick. "Watch out, Arleigh!" Nell shouted over the crowd noise. She, too, had a horn. From the other side another turkel unloaded snakes and they wriggled toward him. He ran to the far end of the oval. The little mechanical monster had chewed through his boot with a rotating blade and he had a shuddersome idea of what a dozen might do. Cut off my legs and call me Shorty. He kneeled with the gulf behind him and, as the snakes converged, he swept them away with the stick, one side and the other, until they were gone. Both bridges were retracted now. He tipped the mother turkel off and had time to look for IF Nell. Jain had wrestled the horn from her hand and spoke into it. "See how you like the old hotfoot." "Pre-emergence weed flamer," said Mummery from the other side. "Give you something to think about. Of course, you can use it for mature row crops if you have the right baffles -- " Ravenshaw ran to the center of the oval. The first turkel was almost to the island, shooting out blue flame around its edges. Following across the bridge were, five more firespitters. Ravenshaw leaped onto the back of the first through a blast of heat, caught his balance on the rounded surface and took desperate six-foot strides on the backs of the others over the bridge. With momentum, he scattered spectators right and left as he leaped up the bleachers. He had Mummery by his antique throat before he heard Jain yelling on the horn, "Choke the old bastard and I stab the girl!" Jain had. his knife at Nell's breast. "All right. Maybe we can make a deal." Ravenshaw tucked Mummery's head in the crook of his arm, told him to come along or he'd tear it off, and returned across the bridge to the island. The crowd was in a tumult. They enjoyed the action and took a while to settle down for the next act. Jain said, "l changed my mind... Go ahead and strangle him." The girl. Cay, had followed Ravenshaw across the bridge. She came up and kissed him full on the mouth. "It's immoral, but go ahead and stick her," she shouted to Jain. Ravenshaw dropped the old man. She announced further: "I'll take him dirty and forlorn and we'll make you silly clowns cringe, won't we, poppet?" "In a pig's valise you will," said Ravenshaw. She slapped him broadhanded. He jerked her to him by the collar of her suit and spanked her over his knee. The crowd went wild. This was the best entertainment in years. He dropped Cay and caught Mummery before he reached the bridge and dragged him to the middle of the oval. He could not see Nell in the surging crowd. Cay was back on her own side and Freckles rode his bridge to the island with Jain in his grasp. "Weapons are immoral and violence is nasty," said Freckles. He dropped the old man and retreated. Ravenshaw welcomed him aboard with a kick that drove him sprawling after Mummery to one end of the oval. He looked again for Nell and could not see her in the cheering crowd. The bridge was alive with fire. New turkels advanced, shooting a blaze that made the bleachers waver in the heat. The six turkels already on the island met those from the other side. The twelve formed a line and advanced slowly on Ravenshaw. The old men were at the other end of the oval. Both bridges were withdrawn. "Uh-oh, dance with fire or fly through air?" said Ravenshaw softly. He retreated. He was bloody and battered. He was on an alien world with the choice of being broiled or bouncing two hundred feet through a web of pipe to the sewer works. The wall of flame advanced. He stood on the edge of the drop. He looked at the ceiling. It was properly described as a surface of revolution around an axis. These people had revolved around an unexpected axis, no matter the forethought and idealism of the builders. The far limits of the beast are unknown, though certain predispositions have been observed in # years of history. A revolting development. Ravenshaw sheltered his face from the furnace blast with his hands and said, "It only hurts when I laugh. I ' So why couldn't he be all things at once, scared spitless, raging mad, filled with apprehension for Nell and laughing? Look at the elephant whole. Keep cool Ravenshaw. A creeping blue flame licked the fuzz of his trousers. Believe or bum, my dear Ravenshaw. A whole man vanished from the One-Generation New World. shaw brushed out the little fires. Hard pellets of snow rattled on the ground. He was standing at the corner of a corral next to Mummery's ranch house up Meadow Valley Wash in his own world. That thing was the D-# tractor, cat-yellow, cat-black in the bitter night. His foot slipped on the ice when he climbed up and he just avoided breaking his neck. He took the tin can off the stack and put down the seat. He was shivering with cold by the time he got the big diesel going. It blew smoke rings, tattered away by the wind, and he shuddered as the engine smoothed to a responsive bellow. He advanced the throttle and raised the blade in front and the rippers behind. He located a gear, pulled the friction, spun around and rumbled to the corner of the corral in which he had found himself. He rode over the posts, and stopped. "Come back often, now that you know the way," he growled. Cat and man vanished. where Ravenshaw wanted to be, on the island between retracted bridges. Only a few people were left of the crowds on either side. Jain was sulking at one end of the long oval, Mummery at the other. Nell was nowhere in sight. He left the diesel idling and stood up. The two wise men stared at him, wild IF and bloody on the snow-encrusted cat. "I'll read the future' said Ravenshaw, "not that you'll take the advice. Hang together or you'll hang separately." Mummery said, "They left us here -- awfully nice of you -- " Jain blinked his owl eyes. "Angle the blade and bridge the cat," said Ravenshaw. "Maybe you can reach the side before the balance point. Maybe you can't. I'll miss you, gentlemen, but not much." He vanished. beside him as he walked from the corral to the house. "I got lost," she said. The kitchen door was unlocked or Ravenshaw would have kicked it in. When he turned on the light switch a generator started up, fluorescents stuttered to brightness and he got a good look at her. There was blood, still wet, on her horrible plaid shirt. He held himself stiff as a glass man. "A dozen frantic worlds," she said, "all wrong." He cleared his throat. "I'll tell you what let's," he said huskily. "Let's not touch a thing -- " "I homed on you," she said. "That's what let's not touch. I want a shower and shave and a set of the old man's pinks. I don't like this place, any part of it -- there's bound to be a car or pickup -- we'll get our stuff at McCarran -- save water in Las Vegas -- if you like -- " The hottest violet eyes in the world blazed affirmation. "With a friend?" she said in her honey voice.' "All right to touch a coffeepot?" she asked and the bones melted in his legs. "Yarp," he croaked and stumbled away. said drowsily, "Break the pipes or make a permanent bridge -- either opens the closed system." "Uh-huh, they gotta turn to the real world, cat or no." "Two buildings are sound psychological engineering," she mused. "You get rivalry, romance, mystery, someplace to go -- " "Uh-huh." He was altogether relaxed. "If you're going to change a world, how do you program the programers?" "Very carefully." She yawned. "What time is it?" He thought of a cat yawning, the tip of its pink tongue quivering. He grinned with pure delight in the dark. She stuck an elbow in his ribs. "What do we tell the general?" "Lady, we're on our own time." "We ought to catch the seveno'clock plane." "All right," said Ravenshaw, "but hush for now. This is the first morning of the rest of my life and I want to start it right." "Sententious, Arleigh dear -- " she said, and fell silent.  OF No room left in the world -- but there T HE day I formed my connection with March B. Street has remained extraordinarily well fixed in my memory. This shows, of course, that my unconsious -- my monitor, I should say; you must pardon me if I sometimes slip into these anthropomorphic terms; it's the influence of my professionWhat was I saying? Oh, yes. My monitor, which of course sorts through my stored data during maintenance periods and wipes the obsolete material out of core, regards the connection as quite important. A tenuous connection, you will say. Yes, but it has endured. The hour was late. I had finished the last of my house calls and it was raining. I may be more careful of my physical well-being than I should be, but my profession makes me so and,, after all, quite a number of people depend on me. At any rate, instead of walking to my quarters as was my custom I bought a paper and seated myself in a kiosk to read and await the eventual arrival of the monorail. In twenty minutes I had read everything of interest and laid the paper on the bench beside my bag. After some five minutes spent watching the gray rain and thinking about some of my more troublesome patients I picked it up again and began (my room being, in several respects, less than satisfactory) to leaf through the real estate ads. I believe I can still remember the exact wording: Single Professional wishes to share apt. (exp. cist.) Quiet hbts, no entrtnng. Cr#mo. The cost was below what I was paying for my room and the idea of an apartment -- even if it were only an expanded closet and would have to be sharedwas appealing. It was closer to the center of the city than was my room, and on the same mono line. I thought about it as I boarded, and when we reached the stop nearest it (Cathedral) I got off. The building was old and small, faced with unlightened concrete time had turned nearly black. The address I sought was on the twenty-seventh floor; what had once been a single apartment had been opened out into a complex by means of space expanders, whose all-pervading hum greeted me as I opened the door. One had, for a moment, the sensation of tumbling head first into gulfs of emptiness. Then a little woman, the landlady, came fluttering up to ask what it was I wanted. She was, as I saw at once, a declassed human. I showed her the ad. "Ah," she said. "That's Mr. Street, but I don't think he'll be wanting any of your sort. Of course, that's up to him." I could have mentioned the Civil Liberties Act, but I only said, "He's a human, then? The ad said, "Single Professional." Naturally I thought -- " "Well, you would, wouldn't you," the little woman said, looking at the ad again over my shoulder. "He's not like me. I mean even if he is declassed, he's still young. Mr. Street's a strange one." "You don't mind if I inquire, then?" "Oh, no. I just didn't want to see you disappointed." She was looking at my bag. "You're a doctor?" "A bio-mechanic." "That's what we used to call them -- doctors. It's over there." It had been a hat and coat closet, I suppose, in the original apartment. There was a small brass plate on the door:  time when the door opened and I asked, quite without thinking how it might sound, "What in the world does a consulting engineer do?" "He consults," Mr. Marche Street answered. "Are you a client, sir?" And that was how I met him. I should have been impressed -- I mean, had I known -- but as it was I was only flustered. I told him I had come about the apartment and he asked me in very politely. It was an immense place, filled to bursting with machines in various stages of disassembly and furniture. "Not pretty," Mr. Street remarked, "but it's home." "I had no idea it would be so big. You must have -- " "Three expanders, each six hundred horsepower. There's plenty of space out there between the galaxies, so why not pull it down here where we need it?" "The cost, I should say, for one thing. I suppose that's why you want to -- " "Share the apartment? Yes, that's one reason. How do you like the place?" "You mean you'd consider me? I should think -- " "Do you know you talk very slowly? It makes it damned difficult not to interrupt you. No, I wouldn't prefer a human. Sit down, won't you? What's your name?" "Westing," I said. "It's a silly name, really -- like naming a human Tommy or Jimmy. But the old 'Westinghouse' was out of style when I was assembled." "Which makes you about fiftysix, confirmed by ihe degree of wear I see at your knee seals, which are originals. You're a biomechanic, by your bag -- which should be handy. You haven't much money; you're honest -- and obviously not much of a talker. You came here by mono, and I'd presently live high up in a fairly new building." IF "How in the world -- " "Quite simple, really, Westing. You haven't money or you wouldn't be interested in an apartment. You're honest or you'd have money -- no one has more and better chances to steal than a biomechanic. When a passenger with a transfer boards the mono the conductor rips up the ticket and, half the time, drops it on the floor -- and one is stuck to your foot with gum. And lightened concrete and plastic facades have given us buildings so tall and spindlyframed that the upper floors sway under the wind load like ships. People who live or work in them take to bracing themselves the way sailors used to -- as I notice you're doing on that settee." "You are an extraordinary person," I managed to say, "and it makes me all the more surprised -- " And here I am afraid I stopped speaking and leaned forward to stare at him. "Extraordinary in more ways than one, I'm afraid," Street said. "But although I assure you I will engage you as my physician if I am ever ill, I haven't done so yet." "Quite so," I admitted. I relaxed, but I was still puzzled. "Are you still interested in sharing my little apartment, then? Shall I show you about?" "No," I said. "I understand," Street said, "and I apologize for having wasted your time. Doctor." "I don't want to be shown the door, either." Though I was upset, I must admit I felt a thrill of somewhat guilty pleasure at being able to contradict my host. "I want to sit here and think for a minute." "Of course," Street said, and was silent. (and there was no use in my deceiving myself -- that was what was being proposed) was a raffish sort of thing. It was bound to hurt my practice, but then my practice was largely among declassed humans already and could not get much worse. The vast spaces of the apartment, even littered as they were, were attractive after years in a single cramped room. But most of all, or so I like to think, it was the personality of Street himself which decided me -- and the fact that I detected in him, perhaps only by some professional instinct not wholly rational, a physical abnormality I could not quite classify. And there was, in addition, the pleasing thought of surprising my few friends, all of whom, I knew, thought me much too stuffy to do any such outlandish thing. I was giving Street my money -- half a month's rent on the apartment -- when he froze, head cocked, to listen to some sound from the foyer. After a moment he said, "We have a visitor, Westing. Hear him?" "I heard someone out there." "The light and tottering step is that of our good landlady, Mrs. Nash. But there is another tread -- dignified, yet nervous. Almost certainly a client." "Or someone else to ask about the apartment," I suggested. "No." Before I could object to this flat contradiction the door opened to show the birdlike woman who had admitted us. She ushered in a distinguished-looking person well over two meters tall, whose polished and lavish solid chrome trim gave unmistakable evidence, if not of wealth, then at least of a sufothers -- would only envy all our lives. "You are Street?" he asked, looking at me with a somewhat puzzeled expression. "This is my associate, Dr. Westing," Street said. "I am the man you came to see, Coniissioner Electric. Won't you sit down?" "I'm flattered that you know my name," Electric said. "Over there past the nickelodeon," Street told him, "you'll see a cleared spot for tri-D displays. There are several cameras around it. Whenever a man I don't know appears I photograph the image for later reference. You were interviewed three months ago in connection with your request for additional expanders for the hiring hall, made necessary by the depressed state of the economy." "Yes." Electric nodded and it was plain that Street's recital of these simple facts, accurate as it was, had depressed still further spirits already hovering at the brink of despair. "You have no conception, Mr. Street, of how ironic it seems that I should hear now -- here -- of that routine request for funds, and so be reminded of those days when our hall was filled to bursting with the deactivated." "From which," Street said slowly, "I take it that the place is now empty -- or nearly so. I must say I am surprised; I had believed the economy to be in worse condition -- if that is possible -- than it was three months past." "It is," Electric admitted. "And your first supposition is also correct -- the hall, though not empty, is far from crowded." "Ah," said Street. "This thing has been driving me to the brink of reprograming for six weeks now. The deactivated are being stolen. The police pretend to be accomplishing something; but it's obvious they are helpless -- they're only going through the motions now. Last night a relative of mine -- I won't name him, but he is a highly placed military officer -- suggested that I come to you. He didn't mention you were a declassed human, and I suppose he knew that if he had I wouldn't have come, but now that I've seen you IF 'That's kind of you," Street said dryly. "In the event I succeed in preventing further thefts by bringing the criminals to justice my fee will be -- " He named an astronomical sum. "And in the event further thefts are not prevented?" "My expenses only."l-thefts strike at the very fabric of our society, Mr. Street. The old rallying cry, Free markets and free robots , may be a joke now to some, but it has built our civilization. Robots are assembled when the demand for labor exceeds the supply. When supply exceeds demand -- that is, in practical terms, when the excess cybercitizens can't make a living -- they turn themselves in at the hiring hall, where they're deactivated until they're needed again. If news of these shortages should leak out -- " "Who would turn himself in to be stolen, eh?" said Street. "I see what you mean." "Precisely. The unemployed would resort to begging and theft, just as in the old days. We already have -- I hope you'll excuse me -- enough of a problem with declassified humans. You yourself are obviously an exception, but you must knowwhat most of them are like." "Most of us," Street replied mildly, "are like my landlady: people who lost class because they refused death at the end of their natural lifespans. It's not very easy to learn to earn your living when for a hundred years of life society has handed you an income big enough to make you rich." It wasn't really my affair, but I couldrrt help saying, "But if you can help Commissioner Electric, Street, you'll be helping your own people in exactly this area." Street turned his eyes -- which were of an intense blue, as though his photosensors were arcing -- to me. "Is that so, Doctor? I'm afraid I don't quite follow you." Electric said, "I should think it's obvious. Surely the motive for stealing our deactivated workers must be the desire to use them as forced labor, presumably in a secret factory of some sort. If this is being done, the criminals are competing illegally with everyone trying to earn an honest living -- including the declassed." I nodded my emphatic agreetory, perhaps in a cavern or abandoned mine, filled with dim figures laboring without cease under the threat of destruction, had already come to haunt my imagination. "Slaves of silver," I muttered half aloud, "toiling in the dark." "Possibly," Street said. "But I can think of other possibilities -- possibilities you might find more shocking still." "In any event," Commissioner Electric put in, "you will want to visit the hiring hall." "Yes, but not in company with you. I consider it quite possible that the entrance may be watched. Human beings do visit the hall from time to time, I assume?" "Yes, usually to engage domestics." "Excellent. Under what circumstances would you deal with such visitors personally?" "I would not ordinarily do so at all, unless all my subordinates were engaged." Street looked at me. "You seem to want to be a party to this, Westing. Are you game to visit the hiring hall with me? You must consider that you may disappear -- for that matter we both may." "Oh, no," Electric protested, "the disappearances occur only after dark, when the hall is closed." "Certainly I'll come." Street smiled. "I thought you would. Commissioner, we will follow you in one half hour. See to it that when we arrive your subordinates are engaged." gone I was able to ask Street the question that had been nagging at my mind during the entire interview. "Street, for God's own sake, how was it you knew Commissioner Electric hadn't come about the apartment before Mrs. Nash had opened the door?" "Be a good fellow and look in the drawer of the inlaid rosewood table you'll find on the other side of that camera obscura to the left of the tri-D stage, and I'll tell you. You ought to find a recording ammeter in there. We'll need it." I didn't know what a camera obscura was, but fortunately the rosewood table was a rather striking piece and only one instrument was in its drawer, lying amid a litter of tarot cards and bridge score pads. I held it up for Street to see and he nodded. "That's it. You see. Westing, when someone arrives in answer to a newspaper ad he almost invariably -- ninety-two point six percent of the time, according to my calculation -- carries the paper with him and shows it to the person who answers the door. When I failed to hear the telltale rattie of the popular press as our visitor addressed Mrs. Nash I knew there was little chance that he had come about the apartment." "Astounding!" "Oh, it's not so much," Street said modestly. "But get a move on, won't you? It wouldn't do to ride down in the same elevator with Electric -- but on the other hand it's seldom a waste of askance to view a public official with it. We're going to shadow him." Despite Street's suspicions, Commissioner Electric did nothing untoward that I could see while we followed him. To give him time to prepare for us, as Street said, we IF idled for a quarter of an hour or more at the window of a tri-D store near the hall. The show being carried on the display set inside was utterly banal and I could swear that Street did not give it even a fraction of his attention. He stood, absorbed in his own thoughts, while I fidgeted. The hiring hall, when Electric guided us around it, we found to be a huge place; impressive from outside but immensely larger within and filled with the hum of expanders. The corridors were lined with persons of every age and state of repair -- they stretched for slightly curved miles like the vistas seen in opposed mirrors. Gaping spaces showed where the disappearances had taken place, but, sinister as they were, in time they seemed a relief from the staring regard of those thousands of unseeing eyes. Street asked for data on each theft and recorded the date and the number of persons missing in a notebook; but there seemed to be no pattern to the crimes, save that all the disappearances took place at night. At last we came to the end of that vast building. Commissioner Electric did not ask Street for his opinion of the case (though I could see he wanted to), nor did Street give it. But once we were fairly away from him, Street pacing impatiently alongside the sidewalk while I trotted to keep up, he broke forth in an irascible tirade of selfabuse: "Westing, this thing is as simple as a two-foot piece of aluminum conduit and I'm confident I know everything about it -- except what I need to know. And I have no idea of how I'm going to find the answer. I know the robots are taken -- I think. And I believe I know why. The question is: Who is responsible? If I could get the patrol to cooperate -- " He lapsed into a sour silence, unbroken until we were once more back in the huge, littered apartment I had not yet learned to call "ours." Indeed, my arrangement with Street was so recent that I had not yet had an opportunity to shift my possessions from my old room or to terminate my tenancy there. I excused myself -- though Street seemed hardly to notice -- and attended to these things. changed. Street sat, as before, wrapped in gloom. And I, reduced to despondency by his example and with nothing better to do in any case, sat watching him. After an hour had passed he rose from his chair and for a few moments wandered disconsolately about the apartment, only to return to the same seat and throw himself down, his face blacker -- if that were possible -- than before. "Street -- " I ventured. "Eh?" He looked up. "Westing? That's your name, isn't it? You still here?" "Yes. I've been watching you for some time. While I realize you have, no doubt, a regular medical advisor, you were once kind enough to say that you might call me. On the strength of that -- " "Well, out with it, man. What is it?" "There will be no fee, of course. I was going to say that though I don't know what means of chemical reality enhancement you employ, it would appear to me that it has been a considerable time -- " "Since my last fix? Believe me, it has." He laughed, a reaction I thought encouraging. "Then I would suggest -- " "I don't use drugs. Westing. None at all." "I didn't mean to suggest anything strong -- just a few pinks, say, or -- " "I mean it, Westing. I don't use pinks. Or blues. Or even whites. I don't use anything except food, and little enough of that, water and air." "You're serious?" "Absolutely." "Street, I find this incredible. We were taught at medical school that human beings -- being, after all, a species evolved for a savanna landscape rather than our climax civilization -- were unable to maintain their sanity without pharmaceutical relief." "That may well be true, Westing. Nevertheless, I do not use any." This was too much for me to absorb at once and while I tried to encode it Street fell back into his former gloom. "Street," I said again. "What is it this time?" "Do you remember? When we first met I said that I detected in you, perhaps only by some professional instinct not wholly rational, a physical abnormality I could not quite classify?" "You didn't say anything of the sort. You may have thought it." "I did. And I was right. Man, you don't know how good this makes me feel." "I have some comprehension of the intellectual rewards attendant on successful deduction." "I'm sure you do. But now, if I may say so, a too-avid pursuit of those rewards has led you to a severe state of depression. A stimulant of some sort -- " "Not at all, Westing. Thought is my drug -- and believe me it is both stimulating and frustrating. My need is for a soporific, and your conversation fills the bill better than anything you could prescribe." This was said in so cheerful and bantering a way, albeit with a barely perceptible touch of bitterness, that I could not resent it -- and, indeed, the marked improvement this little spate of Xalk had brought to Street's mien emboldened me to continue at whatever risk to my vanity. IF So I answered, "Your powers of concentration, admirable as they are, may yet be your undoing. Do you remember the quarter-hour we spent in front of a store window? Where the tri-D had such poor reception? I addressed you several times, but I would swear you heard none of my questions. " "I heard every one of your questions," Street said, "and since none admitted to intelligent responses I ignored them all. And that tri-D, if not of the most exquisite quality, was at least better than passable. I apologize if I sound peevish, but really, Westing, you must learn to observe." "I am not an engineer," I replied, perhaps rather too stiffly, "and so I cannot say if the reception in fact was at fault -- but acute observation is a necessity in my profession and I can assure you that the color stability of the set on display was abominable." "Nonsense. I was looking directly at it for the entire time and I could, if necessary, describe each stupidity of programing in sequence." "Maybe you could," I said. "And I don't doubt your assertion that you were watching with commendable attention while we waited outside the hiring hall. But you quite obviously failed to observe it when we left . You were talking excitedly, as I recall -- and as you spoke we passed the window again. The actors were blushing -- if I may use that expression here -- a sort of reddish-orange. Then they turned greenish blue, then really blue, and finally a shade of bright, cool green. In fact, they went through that whole cycle several times just during the time it took us to walk past the window." T HE effect of this perhaps overly detailed and argumentative statement on Street was extraordinary. Instead of countering with argument or denial, as I confess I expected, for a few moments he simply stared silently at me. Then he jumped to his feet and for half a minute or more paced the room in silent agitation, twice tripping over the same ball-clawed foot of the same late Victorian commode. At last he turned almost fiercely back to me and announced: "Westing, I believe I can recall the precise words I addressed to you as we passed that display. I will repeat them to you now and I want you to tell me the exact point at which you noticed the color instability you mentioned. I said: 'Westing, this thing is as simple as a twofoot piece of aluminum conduit and I'm confident I know everything about it -- except what I need to know. And I have no idea of how I'm going to find the answer. I know how the robots are taken -- I think. And I believe I know why. The question is: Who is responsible? If I could get the patrol to cooperate -- ' at which point I broke off, I believe. Now, precisely where did you notice the reddish orange color you mentioned -- I believe that was the hue you noticed originally?" "To the best of my recollection. Street, it coincided with the word believe." "I said, # I know how the robots are taken -- I think. And I believe -- ' and at that point you noticed that the figures in the tri-D illusion blushed a color you have described as a reddish orange. Is that correct?" Dumfounded, I nodded. "Excellent. Among my other antiques. Westing, I have assembled a collection of paintings. Would it interest you to see them? You would be conferring a favor of no mean magnitude upon me." "I don't see how -- but certainly, if you wish." "Excellent again; particularly if, while drinking in their loveliness, you would take the trouble to point out to me the shades which most closely match the four colors you saw when the tri-D malfunctioned. But please be most exact -- if the match is not perfect, you need not inform me." For an hour or more we pored over Street's pictures, which were astoundingly varied and, for the most part, in a poor state of preservation. In size they ranged from Indian miniatures smaller than coins to a Biblical cyclorama five meters high and (so Street told me) more than three kilometers in length. The greenish-blue long escaped us, but at last I located it in an execrable depiction of Susanna and The Elders and the art display was abruptly terminated. Street told me bluntly -- his manner would have been offensive if it had not been so obvious that his mind was totally engaged on a problem of formidable proportions -- to amuse myself and buried himself in an assortment of ratty books and dusty charts, one of which, as I particularly remember, was like a rainbow bent into a full circle, with the blazing colors melting into one another like the infinitesimal quantities in a differential equation. While he pondered over these the hours of evening rolled past on silent rubber wheels. Others, their day's work done, might rest now; I waited. Humans, rich and fortunate or declassed, might sleep or busy themselves in those pointless naked tumblings which mean so little to us; Street worked. And at last I wondered if it might not be that we two were the only wakeful minds in the entire city. me by the shoulder. "Westing," he exclaimed, "I have it -- let me show you." I explained that I had taken advantage of his concentration to edit my memory banks. Street shrugged my mumblings aside. "Here," he said. "Look at IF this and let me explain. You told me, if you remember, that you saw a cycle of four colors and that this cycle was repeated several times." "That's correct." "Very well. Now observe. Has it ever occured to you to wonder how speak?" "I assume," I said with as much dignity as I could muster, "that somewhere in my monitor the various words of the English language are stored as vibration patterns and -- " "The Chinese system. No, I am convinced it must be something far more efficient. English is spoken with only a trifle more than sixty sounds; even the longest words are created by combining and recombining these -- for examples we might use the a as it appears in arm , the r as in rat and the ch from chair to describe our inestimable landlady, Mrs. Nash. Combined in one fashion they give us char -- her "profession -- but rearranged in another they contribute arch -- her manner." "You mean that all of spoken English can be stored in my central processing unit as a mere sixtyplace linear array?" "That is precisely what I've been saying." "Street, that's marvelous! I'm not a religious man, but when I contemplate the ingenuity of those early programers and systems analysts -- " "Exactly. Now, I do not know the order in which the various English sounds were listed, but there is an order which is very commonly used in the texts to which I have referred. It is to list the" sounds alphabetically and, within the alphabetical sections, to order them from longest to shortest. Thus these lists begin with the long a of ale , followed by the half-long a of chaotic ; and this is followed in turn by the circumflex a of care , so that the whole reads like a temperance lecture. What I have done here is to take these sounds and space them evenly along the visible spectrum." He held up a hand-drawn chart on which there were, however, no colors, but only a multitude of names. "But," I objected, "only a few true colors exist and you said there were more than sixty -- " "A few primary colors," he returned, "but believe me, Westing, if the artists were to make up a pallet containing every oil and watercolor known to them there would be a great many more than sixty. As you may remember, you described the four colors you saw as reddish-orange, greenish-blue, true blue -- which is just like you. Westing -- and bright, cool green;" "Yes." "Afterward, when you pointed out these colors on canvas, I was able to identify them as scarlet lake, cyan blue, blue and viridian. Please observe that on my chart these correspond to the consonant sound p, the consonant A, the short e heard in end and the  sound of late" I considered this remarkable statement for a moment, then replied, "You seem to believe that someone is trying to communicate, using the colors of the tri-D; but I do not see that the sounds to which you say these colors correspond possess any significance." Street leaned back in his chair, smiling. "Let us suppose. Westing, that you came in late as it were, to the message. Catching the last sound of a repeated word, you supposed it to be the first. In short -- " "I see!" I exclaimed, leaping up. "Precisely." "But -- " "There's no more time to waste. Westing. I have only given this much explanation because I want you to be an intelligent witness to what I am about to do. You will observe that I have set up a tri-D camera before our viewing area, enabling me to record for my own use any image appearing there." "Yes, you said something about that to Commissioner Electric." "So I did. What I intend to do now is to code that store near the hiring hall and ask for a demonstration. At this late hour it seems improbable that anyone will be there but a robot clerk -- and it's unlikely he will be implicated." buttons as he spoke and a clerk -- a robot -- appeared almost before he had finished the last word. "I should prefer to deal with a human being," Street told him, displaying an excellent imitation of prejudice. The clerk groveled. "Oh, I am sorry, sir. But my employers -- and no person ever had better -- have gone to snatch a few hours of deserved rest. If you would -- " "That's all right." Street cut him off. "You'll do. I'm interested in another tri-D and I want a demonstration." "Very wise, sir. We have -- " "As it happens, I was passing your shop today and the set in your window looked attractive. I presume there would be a discount, since it's a demonstrator?" "I would have to consult my masters," the clerk answered smoothly, "but I assume something might be arranged." "Good." "Is there any particular program -- " "I don't know what's on right now." For an instant Street feigned indicision. "Isn't The Answer Man always available?" "Indeed he is, sir. Personal, Sexual, Scholarly, or Civil Affairs?" "Civil Affairs, I think." In an instant The Answer Man, a computer-generated illusion designed to give maximum reassurIF ance in the field' of civil affairs, appeared in the tri-D area. He nodded politely to us and asked, "Would you like a general report -- or have you specific fears?" "I have heard rumors," Street said, "to the effect -- well, the fact is that an old family servitor of mine is -- uh -- resting in the hiring hall. Is it quite safe?" The Answer Man reassured him, but as he did so he (and indeed the entire illusion) blushed a series of colors as astonishing as it was -- at least by me -- unexpected. "Names," Street prompted softly. "I must have names." "I beg your pardon?" The Answer Man said, but as he spoke he coruscated anew with dazzling chromatic aberrations. "I meant," Street returned easily, "that you would have to have my servant's name before you could properly reassure me. But it's really not necessary. I've heard -- " Abruptly The Answer Man vanished, replaced by the clerk robot. "I'm terribly sorry," he said. "Something seems to be wrong with the color control. Could 'I show you another set?" "Oh, no," Street told him. "The trouble is in the network signal. Didn't you get the announcement? Sunspots." "Really?" The clerk looked relieved. "It's extraordinary that I should have missed it." "I would say," Street sounded severe, "that in your position it was your duty to have heard it." "I can't imagine -- About an hour ago, could it have been? I had to leave -- only momentarily -- to dispose of the surplus water created by my fuel cells, but except for that -- " "No doubt that was it," Street said. "I wish you a good evening, sir." He switched off the tri-D. "Westing, I've done it! I've got everything we need here." "You mean that by going over the tapes you made and comparing them with your chart -- " "No, no, of course not," Street interrupted me testily. "I memorized the chart while you were asleep. The tapes are only for evidence." "You mean that you understood -- " "Certainly. As well as I understand you now -- though I must confess that before I heard that poor machine speak it had never occurred to me that the word dread, especially when given the slightly pre-Raphaelite pronunciation of our unfortunate friend, could result in such startling beauty." "Street," I said, "you're toying with me. With whom are you communicating when you talk to those colors? And how were the deactivated robots stolen -- and why?" small, cast iron "greedy-pig" coin bank he had picked up from the table beside his chair. "I am communicating, as I should think must be obvious, with one of the stolen robots. And the method of theft was by no means difficult -- indeed. I'm surprised that it is not emplpyed more often. A confederate of the thieves concealed himself in the immensities of the hiring hall during the day. When all were gone he momentarily interrupted the flow of current to one of the expanders, with the result that the expander space returned to a position between the galaxies, carrying its contents with it. As you know, the exact portion of space taken by an expander is dependent on the fourth derivative of the sinusoidal voltage at the instant of startup, so it is most improbable that, upon being restarted a split second later, the expander should return the robots to their proper places. They are picked up instead by a deep-space freighter and eventually returned to Earth. The recording ammeter I contrived to fasten to the hall's main power supply while Electric was showing us around will tell us if anyone tries the little trick again, as well as convincing a court that might not otherwise belive my explanation." "But the colors. Street? Are you trying to tell me that the National Broadcasting Authority itself is employing slave labor?" "Not at all." Street looked grave, then smiled -- I might almost say grinned -- at me. "The robots in the hiring hall are there because society can find no present use for them -- but has it never occured to you that the electronics they contain might themselves be useful?" "You mean -- " Street nodded. "I do. A tri-D set requires considerable computing power: a quite complicated signal must be unscrambled almost instantly to produce the three-dimensional illusion. The central processing unit of a robot, however, would be more than equal to the task -- and very economical, if it were free. Unfortunately -- for them -- the criminals made one mistake. A criminal always makes one mistake. Westing." "They wired the speech centers to handle the color coding?" "Precisely. I am proud of you." I was so elated that I leaped to my feet and for a few moments paced the room feverishly. The triumph of justice -- the chagrin of the criminal manufacturers! The glory that would be Street's and, to some degree as his friend, mine! At length a new thought struck me, coming with the clarity of the tolling of a great bell. "Street -- " I said. "You look dashed, Westing." "You have done society a great service." "I know it -- and the fee will be most useful. There is an early twentieth-century iron-claw maIF chine in a junk shop over on four hundred and forty-fourth I've been lusting after. It needs a little work -- the claw won't pick up anything now -- but I think I can fix it." "Street, it might be possible -- Commissioner Electric possesses great influence -- " "What are you blathering about. Westing?" "It might be possible for you to be reclassed. Have your birthright income restored." "Are you insinuating. Westing, that you believe me to have been declassed for criminal activity?" "But all human beings are born classed -- and you're not old enough to have refused death." "Believe me. Westing, my income is still in existence and -- in a way -- I am receiving it. You, as a bio-mechanic, should understand." "You mean -- " "Yes. I have had a child by asexual reproduction. A child who duplicates precisely my own genetic makeup -- a second self. The law, as you no doubt know, requires in such cases that the parent's income go to the child. He must be reared and educated." "You could have married." "I prefer to have a home. And no man has a home unless he is master of a place where he must please no one -- a place where he can go and lock the door behind him." This was what I had feared. I said, "In that case perhaps you won't want -- I mean, with the money you'll be getting from Electric you won't need to share this apartment. I would quite understand, Street, really I would." "You, Westing?" Street laughed. "You're no more in the way than a refrigerator."  You Will Enjoy Revolution bv Robert Sdverbert) .ir.tl Open l nttm by Robert A W Lowndes Aiso featured ore Oft thn l)nep f rui ,i nihimn by Piers Anthony ,i major review by Nmnuir Spmnid humor by Grerj Beidord erudition by John Fi #,I r o r no n madneys by the editor .mil fury by the renders m the fetter column Sample Subscription # issues for Si S# per year His enemy was so like himself that not even death would tell them apart... I T HE skater lifted abruptly off the ramp, caught the wind and slid sideways toward the water. In a moment it was rocking and bouncing above the waves, building up to its top speed of two hundred miles an hour. Jim Forrest was thankful for the autopilot -- no human pilot could handle the skater in this weather. Behind him the buildings of Mark Station vanished into the gray rain and the island's dark bulk disappeared in a few seconds more. Forrest was driving by dead reckoning, with no need to use a map, as there was only one other island on Marconi, the ocean-covered planet of Denebola.  To say that the sea was choppy would be an extreme understatement. The wind pounded, the rain poured on the windshield of the little craft and the clouds turned early afternoon into night as the jet-cushion craft skimmed just above the water, underjets echoing the roaring storm. The autopilot chattered as it computed the height of the oncoming waves, increasing or decreasing the pressure of the jet pillar beneath. Too close , thought Forrest as he set the altitude level to fifty feet. This would take more power, but he didn't want to plow through any crests. Forty-foot waves! He'd never seen them before on Marconi. There had never been such a storm in the planet's short history -- and he had to be out in it. It was B.H.'s fault, he thought. He should have expected something like this and gotten Harrison off the isolated outpost before now. Three men on a planet should stick together, especially now since there might be others around. He peered out into the gloom, trying to imagine where he could not see. Where in all that watery vastness could the alien capsule have landed? If it had been a capsule. The automatic recording satellite had only told them that something had entered the atmosphere and the distant guard ship had warned them of a Dent starship in the vicinity. But it didn't take a computer to put two and two together. Forrest had known nothing about any of it until that morning, when Commander Howard had called him in. "You can put down your comic book, Jim. I've got a job for you," Howard had said, reclining on his bunk in the control office while the automatic machinery around him ran the busy communications station. Slouching semi-respect fully within the door, Forrest had protested that it was Meyer's Dialogues he was holding in his hand and had added, "I've been grounded for four days, B.H. There isn't much else to do." The scene recreated itself in detail in Forrest's memory... IF heavily to his stockinged feet. "Don't take me seriously, Jim. I really do appreciate your volunteering to stay on and there hasn't been much to do around here. But now there is." He padded over to the message desk. Howard was not a military man -- the title of Commander had devolved on him along with Director, Station-Master and several other offices when the Stardust had left a month ago with the rest of the personnel. He cut no figure in his wrinkled blue suit -- it looked as if it had been slept in, as it probably had. But he was Forrest's boss and, though they had little in common, they had got on well. "Here's a message from Harrison over on the other island," said Howard. "It was sent via the stars -- Regulus picked it up on the gravity beam and relayed it back to us. I think I know how he did it -- hooked onto the planet's carrierwave. He used to do it for a joke until they made him cut it out, years ago. I didn't know that equipment was still left at the old station. It seems his planet radio is out. This is Morse code -- he could only switch on and off -- but the translation is below." Forrest took the paper, squinted at the markings and the penciled letters below them. " 'Retransmit to Howard, Marconi Station, Denebola. Radio out. Require box of Contrad at once. You have it in medical supplies. Must have some in twelve hours. No transportation. Sorry. Harrison.' What's Contrad?" Howard ran a hand over his balding forehead. "What do you know about Warner Harrison, Jim? Not much? Well, I'll tell you." He stared at the flashing lights indicating messages passing through from Regulus to Arcturus and elsewhere, the light-years spanned instantaneously by the gravity waves and requiring little monitoring here at the booster station. Forrest waited silently while Howard collected his thoughts. "Harrison was a pretty important man when Marconi Station was on Nexus Island, before they built this place. When he retired he wouldn't leave the island. He said he liked the ocean air on Marconi, didn't think he'd last the long journey back to Earth, so they let .him stay on at Nexus Island as sort of unofficial caretaker. They used to have a lot of workers at the old station -- not like here where everything's automatic -- and they even had a small community on an island adjoining, maybe a couple hundred people. Of course there's no one there now and the installation is dismantled, but Harrison keeps busy with his astronomy and other hobbies. The only thing is -- well, he was in a space accident about twenty years ago -- lost his wife and family and suffered from radiation effects himself. He got a lot of it into his bones -- they've got a cure, for that, only it has to be kept up.". "So Contrad is short for contraradiation," said Forrest. "Right. And when he says he needs it in twelve hours, he means it. If he doesn't have regular doses to suppress the radiation coming from his bones damage will be done elsewhere -- he. probably means he'll die in twelve hours. So we've got to bring it to him before then. I've got the stuff, I'm sure -- he made me store some here. I don't know why he ran out; he always kept an ample supply of Contrad. We're a long way from the drug store." Forrest was hardly listening. "But how will we get there? Nexus is a thousand miles from here. The submarine will take twenty hours -- and that's the only thing that'll make it in this storm." Howard looked worried. "Don't you think the plane is in condition?" "The planed Are you crazy? Even if I could take off in this mess I'd have to land, wouldn't I? I'd have to make two impossible landings -- or don't you want me to come back?" "Take it easy. I was just wondering," said Howard. "Besides," added Forrest, "The plane isn't in condition. It took a lot of beating in that wind before I got it under cover." "Take the skater, then. It ought to work in a storm if you set the jets up high enough -- and it can make it in about five hours. We've never used it except in a calm sea, but -- " "It certainly is a wonderful thing," said Forrest sarcastically. "They left us all kinds of transport. Only none of it is any good in an emergency." "Well, who could predict a storm like this? Marconi's never had one before. I don't know how long it will last and I don't want to wait for it to let up. This is a mission of mercy, Jim, and if you don't go, I'll go." Forrest flushed. "I'm the pilot around here, B.H. I guess the skater will make it. Find the medicine and I'm on my way." "Thanks," said Howard. "I wish I could just shoot it there. I could probably come close to the island with a missile, but he wouldn't have the ability to retrieve it. Besides, there's something else. Something I haven't told you." That was when he mentioned the Dents. "I don't have continuous contact with the guard ship. They can't use gravity waves, so they have to signal by radio or light and they were about two light-days out then. That was three Marconi-days ago -- I just got the message this morning. I don't know where they are now -- probably chasing the Dent starship." "But this is fantastic," said Forrest. "One lousy guard ship for the IF communications hub of the stellar empire!" Commander Howard frowned. "Why isn't this place better guarded? Because the Dents are normally peaceful. Too many of our guard ships in the heart of someone else's territory could cause trouble. This station can take care of itself, don't worry. No one can get within a hundred miles of this island, on, above, or under the surface. Or from space either. A free-falling missile, or any missile sent here, would be detected and destroyed without hurting us." "But can one man handle all the defenses?" "They're computer-run. One man here is just as tough as an army. Otherwise they wouldn't leave this station with minimum personnel. The station and base could even be completely automatic, but that's a little too dangerous. If Regulus or Arcturus could operate this station by remote control, so could anyone else with the right equipment. The only weak spot is the human element. I could let the Dents in -- but I won't. You'll even have to pass a test to get back in here, when you return, to make sure you're not a Dent in disguise. But don't worry, this base is safe. The robot defenses are always on guard. All they need is a button-presser. I can push buttons in my sleep." "So it isn't just a mission of mercy. You want me to check the island and see if there are any Dents around." "The satellite recorded the entry about the same time the Dent starship was seen. It's possible -- only possible, mind you -- that a capsule could have landed in the ocean near Nexus Island. It certainly didn't land within a hundred miles of here, or I would have detected it. And blown it out of the water, needless to say." "What'll I do with a Dent if I see one?" Howard looked as if this had not occurred to him. "The skater is armed. But try to avoid the Dents, if any. Just get the Contrad to Harrison. H'mmm -- maybe you'd better take him off. Bring him back here." "That would be best," agreed Forrest. "If Nexus is undefended it would be better not to have anyone there. Does he have any specialized knowledge they would particularly want?" "No. He's been out of the communications service too long. They'd get nothing new out of him. They'd get nothing out of the old station either -- what's not dismantled is obsolete. Still, Harrison's a good man -- so bring him back. If he doesn't want to come, persuade him." Forrest smirked wryly. "So all I have to do is go out in this terrific storm, manhandle an untested skater a thousand miles, keep a sharp lookout for aliens and talk a hermit into coming to town. That's a big order." Howard smiled. "You asked for work when you came here." "Couldn't you simplify the defense problem by shooting a missile to blow up the other island? I mean, if Harrison weren't there." Howard was startled, then thoughtful. "Yes, I could. Let me know, as soon as you get him off, and I might just send that missile. There's another little thing I might as well tell you. It's in the balance whether they're going to maintain this station, or abandon it. If they decide to abandon Marconi -- a relief ship will come to get us out of here. So maybe it's best if Harrison were here with us anyway. Then we wouldn't have to go get him when we leave. The space tender is ready to lift any time, as soon as there's a starship around to rendezvous with." The older man padded over to the stellar sphere, the three-dimensional globular chart of the stellar empire, three feet (or three hundred light-years) across. He poked a pencil through it. "Here's Denebola... Arcturus... Regulus... Sun. Shiplines are white, gravity lines red. If Denebola is taken out they'll have to reroute the SunRegulus channel through Pollux, here. That'll be expensive. It'll require an additional booster somewhere farther along the route. We're forty-three from Sun here. fifty from Regulus, not far from a straight line between the two. We're on an exact straight line between Arcturus and Regulus. Detouring there will add a lot of lightyears, but they're thinking of doing it. That's how desperate they are." "Well, we're not going to abandon Denebola, are we?" "It's not what we do. It's what the Dents do. They're all around us. If you remember your Earth history, we're about in the position of the American island of Guam in the midst of the Japanese Mandate. We're surrounded by Dentoccupied stars." Though Forrest knew Howard had made a study of famous wars and battles, it always surprised him to hear this non-bookish man say something like this. He looked through the window at the raging storm, then at the TV picture sent by the satellite, showing endless cloud cover. "It reminds me of another battle, too, in that same war," he said. "The Battle of the Bulge." Howard nodded. "Exactly. This storm is making it easy for the enemy. You might almost think they are making the storm." "I wouldn't put it past them," said Forrest. "Under cover of a storm -- a planet-wide storm -- they could land a capsule almost without detection. But -- so what? What's so dangerous about a couple of lousy Dents landing in a capsule?" IF W HA TS so dangerous? he had asked. The dark, onrushing waves were now higher and it looked like the storm would keep up all the way to the island. He adjusted the skater's clearance a notch and leaned back in the seat, tired from the vibration and noise of the engines and from the storm just outside the windows. At one time the Dents didn't seem dangerous, though he had never liked them himself. Once they could only imitate men imperfectly. Howard had tried to downgrade their powers but he had not been convincing. "They can't read minds," he had said. "So their imitations are only from observation. They can only imitate specific individuals -- ones they've got some personal data on. And get it out of your head that they replace people -- they don't. They only seem to, because occasionally they have impersonated someone after they disposed of the original. The Dents were always capable of some kind of imitation. In the early days of interstellar trade, they were caricatures of humanoids. You've seen the tradeform. Now, they're -- better." "Or worse." "There's nothing to worry about. Dents can't beat humans, in a fair fight. They can only infiltrate by disguising themselves. And we've got a sure-fire test to tell them from humans." "I've heard of that. 'Dear Dent, kindly hold still while I test you.' It certainly -- " "Take a pistol." "You don't really expect me to find Dents on the island? What about Harrison?" "They may have landed there. We've got to be prepared. As for Harrison..." Howard had made a sour face. "Test Harrison , too, when you meet him. That's one reason I can't go. I don't know what I'd do if he failed the test. He's too close a friend. I might be slow to shoot." Forrest had hefted the pistol Howard had given him, a Grennell special guard model with mounted flashlight. "All right." He had strapped on the holster. Howard had said, "I'd better tell you the other reason I can't go. You see, in addition to my other duties and titles, I'm also the captain." Forrest had waited for the expected punch line. "I'm the captain, who has to go down with the ship." Howard had padded over to the gravity beam controls, the most imposing array in the room. "The gravity waves are generated deep in the planet's interior. That's why these booster stations can't be out in space, where you'd think they'd logically be. Only a large, solid planet, like this one, can generate enough gravity power to send the beam to the stars instantaneously. There's a lot of power locked up in this station. II "Do you see that button over there?" Next to a busy seismograph Forrest had seen a glass case with a red button inside, marked "P.B." "PB.?" "Panic Button. Someone has to push that as a last resort. It's a safety measure to prevent an enemy from taking over the station in a surprise attack. All it does is cut off a damper that suppresses a secondary vibration of the gravity waves that can cause an earthquake that will not only destroy the station -- but will break up the planet. Naturally this can't be safely rigged to operate by remote control. Someone else might find a way to operate it, then." "It certainly is a wonderful thing," Forrest had saidr Now he was nearing the island and the storm hadn't let up. It had grown darker, as the eight-hour night had begun. He tried to contact Harrison, but no response, as expected. Mark Station was long out of coptact, the TV shredding before a hundred miles had gone by. At the last Howard had pressed a slip of paper to the facsimile plate and Forrest had peeled the copy from his own plate. He looked at it again. There were several lines in B.H.'s barely legible scrawl -- a series of questions for him to ask Harrison. Howard had said that the official test was sure-fire. Why, then, the additional quiz? and suddenly a long, flattopped island grew visible in the gloom, plainly artificial and surrounded by a high sea wall. He saw the dome of the observatory to the left, circled toward the flare-outlined airfield. At the last moment he veered and landed in the water just off the skater-ramp, taxied in. The violent rocking of the waves made him a little sick. He drove high up on the ramp and stopped the engines. Opening the door with difficulty against the wind and rain, he got out. He was instantly drenched -- he had no raincoat. The place looked deserted, as of course it almost was. Someone was coming toward him from the airfield, running raincoat flapping. Forrest hastily took out his Grennell pistol. "Stop," he shouted. "Stop where you are." He tensed -- what would he do if the runner didn't stop? Cold chills ran down his back. He sneezed. The slight figure halted about fifty feet from him. He flicked on the pistol-mounted flashlight and the be,am stabbed through the raindrops, fighting up a small white face beneath a dripping rain hat. It was Harrison, from his pictures. He was squinting in the bright fight. He had already passed the "blink" test. IF though it was raining too hard to be certain. "Is that B.H.?" called Harrison in a weak voice. "No, I'm Howard's pilot, Jim Forrest." He held the light steady. "Did you bring the Contrad?" The voice was even weaker. "Yes. I have a little test for you. Close your eyes, stand still and say nothing for one minute after I give the signal, 'time.' " This was the fabulous "elapsed time test" that Earth's scientists had devised to tell Dents from humans. Harrison protested mildly, "It's raining -- " but obediently closed his eyes. I know , thought Forrest. He was much wetter than Harrison, who at least had a raincoat. "When I say 'time' you start counting, or whatever you want to do, until one minute -- one standard stellar minute -- is up. Then say so." The Dents had no innate sense of time, perhaps because they were said to have no hearts. "Time." Forrest looked at his wristwatch, tried to make sure that the other man wasn't looking at his. This was not the most favorable condition for conducting any test. The rain came down harder. "The minute's up," said Harrison at last. Forrest looked at his watch: # seconds. That was close enough. It's human to judge time too fast by a little. If it had been exactly sixty seconds he might even have been a little suspicious. He kept the light on the shining face. "Can we go in now? Let's go in," Harrison was pleading. "Just a minute." Forrest pulled a slip of paper out of his pocket. It was soaked, nearly falling apart. Well, he could remember the questions B.H. had written down. Chilled to the bone, Forrest kept the Grennell pointed. The figure seemed to sway. The paper had now disintegrated in the rain, "Okay. One , said Forrest, clearly. "When you and Howard were working together at the old station, what was your private nickname for him?" "Shoeless," said Harrison. All right so far , thought Forrest. But that was fairly easy. "Two. There was a golf game on Nexus Island the last time Howard was there. Who else was in the foursome?" "Uh -- Howard's wife and Lieutenant Betty Kay of the Transportation Corps. Can we go in now?" The wind began blowing in gusts, driving the rain crazily around them. "One more," said Forrest miserably. He stopped to sneeze. " Three . There was a Christmas party fourteen years ago in the Nexus Hotel. Besides you and Howard, what other people were there?" Silence. Then, weak but stronger than before, "You can tell B.H. to go to Antares and take up an orbit within the perimeter. How the hell should I know?" The last words were barely audible. Forrest heaved a sigh of relief. That was the right answer . Few people could remember such details; but a disguised Dent, notorious for overacting, was expected to try. He put his pistol away and walked toward Harrison in the dark. He almost panicked when he didn't find him, then he saw a crumpled form at his feet. Harrison had fainted. Forrest felt like kicking himself. He had forgotten that Harrison was in a weakened condition, might even be dying. It was an instant's work to lift him and carry him up the ramp arid into the building; the door was unlocked. This was apparently Harrison's living quarters. Forrest laid the unconscious man down on a couch, then ran out again to the skater and brought in the box of medicine. Closing the door, he took off his soggy collar-shawl. It was cozy in here, but he was soaked. Harrison seemed to be in a bad way, breathing heavily. Forrest did what he could to make him comfortable, removing his wet outer clothing and covering him with a blanket. Then he administered the Contrad, an injection into the arm, as well as several other medications prescribed in the emergency instructions on the box. Harrison responded rapidly and soon was relaxing in a deep sleep. Forrest tried to relax, too, began looking for a place to dry his clothes. short nap later Forrest felt somewhat refreshed, but he marveled at Harrison's quick recovery. He watched the older man eat heartily of bacon and eggs across the table. Harrison now wore a casual outfit of clashing striped colors, contrasting with Forrest's tasteful greens and browns, hanging behind him to dry. "You've got a varied cuisine here for an abandoned outpost forty-three light-years from San Francisco," said Forrest, toying with the remains of his steak. "I stocked up," said Harrison with a broad, toothy smile. "They told me I could have any supplies still left on the base when the communications personnel left and -- " "How did you run out of Contrad, then?" interrupted Forrest, getting up from the table. His clothes were dry, so he took them off the hangers. Harrison looked embarrassed. "That was my fool mistake. I thought I had enough. I counted the empty boxes." He would say no more about it and Forrest changed the subject. He was beginning to like the little man, though he had known him for only a few hours. Forrest slipped on his cigar-brown shirt, stepped IF into his leaf-green slacks and joined them deftly. He was curious about another thing. "How did you manage to hook onto the gravity beam?" he asked, pulling on his brown bootsox. "Oh, that." Harrison grinned. "I still had the old rig I used before. Burned it out, though, finally. Lucky I got through with what I sent. I assume I did -- you're here." " ' Strange , that one learns of one's own house front the distant stars.' " Forrest threw his darkgreen collar-shawl around his shoulders and snapped the button in front. "What's that, a quotation?" asked Harrison, spooning Arcturan peaches. Forrest nodded. "The seventeenth-century playwright, Charles Burbee." He looked around at the homey little room. He realized that Harrison was happy here -- yet Forrest had to get him off. He brought up the subject of the Dent capsule. "All we know is that it entered the atmosphere -- we don't know exactly where...If they'd landed within a hundred miles of Mark, we would have had them. If they'd landed in clear weather anywhere on Marconi we could have picked them up without any difficulty. But this storm -- " Harrison stopped eating, looked up in surprise. "Then that's what it was I heard about three or four nights ago -- a whistling roar woke me up. I thought it was a funny sound for thunder." "Then they might have landed in the ocean somewhere within a few miles of here," said Forrest. The feeling of peace left him and nervousness replaced it. He picked up the heavy holster and strapped it on. "Well, I haven't seen them," said Harrison. "They ought to have shown up by now. Maybe they crashed in the ocean." He seemed to be taking the matter calmly, went back to his coffee. "I was wondering about the lodge ritual last night." "Howard thought they might have already landed on this island. That's why he told me to test you. How big is this station? It's bigger than the new one, isn't it?" "No, it's smaller. That is, the station itself. Nexus City covers a larger area on its own island." "Well, couldn't an alien have put ashore somewhere without you knowing about it?" "I doubt it," said Harrison. "But we'll just take a look." He got up, turned toward the stairs. "The observatory's just above." T HE little man mounted a circular staircase, pressed a button on the bannister and the stairs started moving upward. Forrest got on behind and below him. Harrison turned and smiled down crookedly. # Ever see a circular moving stairway?" Forrest had to admit that he hadn't. This station, though smaller than Mark, was built for a large staff of technicians. He wondered how many men had once used this stairway back in the Old Nexus days. On the second floor they walked past the open door of a large room whose appointments looked familiar to him. Of course -- this was the communications control room. Quaintly different from Commander Howard's, it was fitted with fewer computing-machine stands and more desks and chairs. # Many of the functions were manual here," explained Harrison superfluously. "It would take a dozen men to operate the gravity beams alone. All I could do was jury-rig some surplus apparatus to get a simple message out, the old on-off code, hooked onto the New Nexus beam to Regulus. That's the wreck over there." He pointed to a Rube-Goldbergian contraption bristling with wires and levers, scorched black and covered with fire-extinguisher foam. # I often talked with Howard via Arcturus -- or Regulus or the Sun -- after he moved over to New Nexus -- I mean Mark -- until they traced the astronomical expense involved and made us stop it." He chuckled. # There's nothing much else to interest you here unless you can do something to fix the planet radio." # Tm a pilot, not a communications expert," said Forrest. Harrison said, "It probably wouldn't work in this storm anyway. And the mast is down, too." Harrison stepped up to another set of stairs, clicked it on. Forrest noticed another door as he passed it. It was closed. # That's the storeroom," said  Harrison, moving upward. "By the way, that box of Contrad you brought me ought to last me for six months. The Stardust ought to be back by then with my order." He vanished around the stairs. Forrest wondered darkly if the Stardust would ever be back. He stared at the closed door of the storeroom, thinking of something else. Harrison reappeared, treading backward, waved at him impatiently. "Come on up to the observatory." Forrest got on the moving stairs with a sigh, walked up two at a time and soon caught up to Harrison. They rose into a blue-lighted room. It was daylight. Not the brightness of a clear day but the blue-gray of an overcast dawn. There were windows on all sides of the spacious observatory room. Forrest was delighted by the view of the tossing gray sea and went to the nearest window, where he felt the breeze of fresh ocean air from a small, indirect opening. The rain IF had let up a little and he could see for almost a mile, though not to the horizon, where dark clouds lingered. The high sea wall of the artificial island was close below him, except on one side where the jumbled building of Old Nexus City stretched away for several blocks, its roofs and streets glistening with rain, still falling lightly. Forrest looked at his Arcturusmade, Marconi-set watch. It was just five o'clock, near the beginning of the eight-hour day. A thousand miles from Mark Station, along the equator, would mean a difference in time of about an hour, not worth bothering with, so the two islands kept the same time. Maybe the storm would clear up, Forrest thought. This waterbound planet didn't have much stormy weather, being nearly seasonless, so far out from the giant star Denebola that its orbital year could be measured in centuries. If it weren't for the presence of the alien Dents in nearby systems, Marconi would be a good place to live, as well as a communications link. But no one had wanted an oceancovered world for colonization -- with so many others available -- and the few and tiny other planets of Denebola were unattractive. Now the Regulus region, fifty light-years farther out, was the new heart of empire, with hundreds of better planets than this. He'd have to go there some day. Fifty light-years were not too many. T HE voice of Harrison roused him from his reverie. "You didn't notice my telescope." There it stood, hardly to be missed in the center of the room -- an optical refractor that was obviously not the instrument of a professional astronomer but that of an enthusiastic amateur. It pointed upward through a section of the dome, now closed. Harrison started its motor, swiveled it, spun it in a circle, pointed out its features and generally displayed it proudly. "I could show you the Sun, even in the daytime, if it weren't for this damn rainstorm. I haven't been able to use this telescope for days." He shut off the instrument, wiped it with a cloth and turned back to Forrest. The amateur astronomer was in his element. "Have you ever seen the Sun from here? It's a fifth-magnitude star. The nearest bright star to it is Beta Ceti, third magnitude. Rather an empty region of space. The Sun is just within the borders of the old constellation of Aquarius; They used to have a saying that when the Sun is in Aquarius -- the Water Bearer -- there'll be lots of rain." He flashed a broad grin. "Here it's always in Aquarius, so -- " "I see you have a stellar sphere, too," remarked Forrest, ignoring the joke. It was a globe smaller, older than the one back at Mark Station. And it had fewer white and red lines. 'I brought it up here from the control room," said Harrison. "I use it for a star chart once in a while, though it's not up to date." "It's an antique," said Forrest. "The sphere is only two hundred light-years in diameter." There weren't any aliens around here then , thought Forrest. Now the Dents were all around, menacing the link with Regulus, as well as Denebola itself. Twisting the Lion's tail. No one knew where the Dents had originally come from. They had always been seen in their gray, featureless trade-forms, their sketchy arms, legs and head parodying the humans and humanoids they traded with. It was thought that their original form was more horrible and not at all humanoid. The Dents kept this a closely guarded secret -- without claiming the trade-forms were their own. Now they were actually imitating humans and getting good at it. The reason for the war at present was this very possibility of infiltration through impersonation. Earlier the Dents had been figures of fun with their crude imitations and dressed in ridiculous clothes. Now they were not so funny. Harrison was explaining something about the workings of gravity beams, but Forrest could not pay attention to the technical stuff. His mind was otherwise occupied. Why were he and Harrison wasting time when they ought to be looking for the Dent capsule? Or better, making tracks in the skater back to Mark Station? But first he had to persuade Harrison to go. He seemed to be contented here. Forrest didn't blame him; it was a nice place -- if it weren't for the Dents. " -- dependent on space itself," Harrison was saying. "That's why it's instantaneous anywhere in the stellar sphere, even across the galaxy, if we had boosting stations. To the Andromeda Nebula in a tenth of a second." "In a tenth of a second?" said Forrest, surprised out of his silence. "I thought it was instantaneous all over." Harrison flashed his toothy smile. "Not completely. For all practical purposes. At intra-galactic distances. Even gravity waves have their limitations." Forrest said, "If we could only hook up ships to that beam we could cross the galaxy in no time." "Why should we?" said Harrison. "We couldn't explore it all in a other races." This brought Forrest back to the present, down to Marconi. "What do you know about the Dents?" "The Identities? Not much, really. They are an industrious race, they are almost humanoid -- at least in their trade forms." "Have you ever seen one?" IF "No," said Harrison. "They've never actually landed on Marconi -- although they have made some entries into this system in the past. Accidentally, mostly. But, outside of TV, no." "I have," said Forrest. "A long time ago, when I was a kid on Arcturus, one came to Einstein with a circus or something. He was a gray, greasy, rubber-doll-like little bastard -- when he wasn't trying to disguise himself as a human." "You know that even that isn't the Identities' true shape," said Harrison. "They assumed it only to trade with humanoid races." "Blech," said Forrest. "I don't think I want to see the real Identities." "Why, you're prejudiced." Harrison grinned. "I didn't think it of you. I suppose we must all put on our prejudices -- along with our uniforms -- now that war is, impending." "You're an idiot," said Forrest softly. Ill servatory windows. Harrison handed him a pair of # x # binoculars and he scanned the horizon, less visible now than ever, though the day was further advanced. Dark clouds obscured the sea, hung closer in than before. He turned to examine the shoreline of the island. Down below him the skater ramp was awash with bouncing rain. The skater itself sat solidly there, a bit of familiar security. The adjoining airfield was empty. Scanning farther, Forrest gave a grunt of surprise. "What's that sticking out of the water there?" He indicated the sea just below the airport, where what looked like a bundle of rods broke the water. "That's the copter," said Harrison. "The storm wrecked it the first blow, knocked it down there from the field. So, no transportation. As if I could fly in this storm anyway." Forrest continued searching the base of the island -- the submarine landing, the isthmus bridge to Nexus City, the skater ramp again. He wondered what had been increasingly bothering him -- now he knew. There was no protection here. No armament. The place was wide open. He mentioned this to Harrison. The little man pointed to a balcony, where a small variable-firepower cannon was mounted. Then he showed the tiny pistol inside his shirt. Harrison looked too smug even to be laughable. Was this all he had? Forrest could easily defeat this puny weaponry with nothing but the skater's own armament. He turned away and, impelled by a new sense of urgency, strained his eyes in the fading light toward the buildings of Old Nexus City. He looked at his watch. It was about six o'clock, still two hours short of noon, but it was getting dark. That meant another storm was blowing up. Beyond the bridge he could barely make out the open square, flanked by what looked like a theater and shops. He wondered what Old Nexus City was like. "You want to see Nexus City? Let's go, then," said Harrison, seeming to read his mind. "I don't think we have time for any sight-seeing tours," snapped Forrest. "I'd like to get the skater off the ramp and on its way before another storm hits. And you -- you're going with me." "In the skater? What for?" "You can't stay here." "Why not?" "Because -- oh, hell, you don't see it, do you? You have no defenses. You don't even have any detectors." "Yes, I have," said Harrison. "They're all over the island. They just haven't shown anything so far. Metal detectors, radiation detectors, motor detectors, all kinds. I was ready for you last night, wasn't I? I'm not defenseless." Harrison calmed down, looked unhappy. "But you better go ahead, before the storm prevents your departure." "You're coming along," said Forrest. Then he sighed, admitting temporary defeat. "All right. Tell me about Old Nexus City." He'd wait his chance to use force. He'd have to watch out for the pistol now. Harrison's face relaxed. "Nexus means 'link.' Fancy guys in those days. Now this isn't the only interstellar link any more. When they opened the new station they just called it Marconi -- or Mark. Everyone left here when Nexus closed, so the city is vacant. I guess the Stardust took off most of Mark's personnel too, didn't it? Is Howard the only one left there?" "Yes," said Forrest. "Except me. And I'm not there. That's another reason I want to get back." "I'm sure B.H. can take care of himself." You dont know the half of it , thought Forrest. He had better not mention the missiles Howard had trained on this island or Harrison would never agree to leave. Another thought occurred to him. He wondered how long Howard would wait without hearing from him before launching the missiles anyway. Forrest raised the binoculars again, gave up. Outside was too dark and the rain too heavy. "I'm suspicious about that ghost town." "It's not a ghost town. I use some of it; it stays in good shape. Nexus City had everything, still has a lot. Let's go down there and I'll show it to you." Forrest didn't like the waste of time involved, but he agreed because he wanted to see if there were any traces of the aliens' landing IF there. He wasn't supposed to tangle with the Dents but... way but Harrison led the way to a door opposite the stairs. Behind the door was a large closet. In it were two little cars, like miniature railway cars. Harrison got into the front one and motioned Forrest to climb into the other. He did so, thinking this was some kind of fast, tobogganlike elevator to the control room and living quarters below. It was a tight fit but he made it. "I took this from the amusement park," said Harrison, moving levers. Another door opened in front of them and a blast of cold, wet air hit their faces. "Hang on." The cars jerked forward and down, out into the dark, and the bottom dropped out from under Forrest's midsection. Driving rain hit him like a waterfall. He saw for an instant a dark, yawning pit and, with a roar that drowned out Forrest's cries, the vehicles rolled down the side of the observatory tower, flashed out over the bridge, coasted across the old market place, braked to a slow rolling glide. It was all over in seconds. The cars stopped and Harrison hopped out. Forrest climbed out more slowly, shaking. It was raining heavily and he was getting soaked again. So this was Old Nexus City. He could hardly see the surrounding buildings. Harrison was hurrying into a store and Forrest followed, sloshing across the square. "What's in here?" he asked hoarsely when he had gotten inside. "Raincoats," said Harrison, taking them off the shelves. They walked through the store, carrying their new raincoats. All the merchandise was new but seemed ten or more years out of date, which of course it was. "Take anything you want," invited Harrison, but Forrest was preoccupied. He could understand Harrison's reluctance to leave this island. He had everything he wanted here. For a retired man it was a nice little place. It was too bad Howard was going to destroy it soon. This was a nice little planet , too. Was Howard going to have to destroy it also? He wondered uneasily what Howard was doing now, what he was thinking. They walked through an arcade, shops on both sides, and entered the lobby of the Nexus Hotel. Despite everything that Harrison may have done to preserve it the lobby did not look quite natural -- it was empty of people. Nevertheless, it was clean and well-lighted. They made their way to the automatic bar. They sat down at 'a table and Harrison ordered -- punched buttons -- for both. Forrest made a decision. Harrison was likely to stall here all day. Forrest still had not convinced him of the necessity of leaving the island. He needed shock treatment. Agan."B.H. gave orders to take you back with me. He also said to let him know as soon as we left the island, so that he could bomb it. Just to make sure that no Dents land here he intends to sink the island with missiles." If Harrison was shaken by this information he didn't show it. "After we leave, did you say? Then there's nothing to worry about. I'm not leaving." He smiled engagingly. Forrest tasted his drink. "He also said -- " now was the time to stretch the truth a little -- "that if I didn't get back in sixteen hours he might send the missiles anyway." Now Harrison was distrubed. He put down his glass. "He wouldn't do that." "Wouldn't he? He'd as soon do that as press the Panic Button." Harrison drank. "Ah, yes. The Panic Button. I had forgotten that. Well, if he presses that, what difference does it make whether we're here or there?" "You have just about an hour to decide. It's too late now to stop him -- it would take four hours just to get within radio range in this storm -- but at least we can get off the island." "You're lying." Harrison said this with such certainty that Forrest was startled. "If there were a time limit you would have told me about it before this." "All right," said Forrest. "But maybe I'm not lying when I say that B.H. has a nervous trigger finger. You know him better than I do. How can we play it safe? By contacting him. But to do that we have to go back at least part of the way." Harrison seemed thoughtful. "Maybe you better go back and tell him that I'm not leaving the island. I'll take my chances on B.H.'s nerves." "I'm not going without you," said Forrest. He might have to jump Harrison if nothing else worked. Harrison shrugged. "Okay. I'll show you the rest of the island -- convince you that there are no Identities around here." He rose and a check popped up in the center of the table. He picked it up and said, "This one's on me." He walked to the cashier's desk and threw the check into a basket that already held a large pile of checks. Forrest followed Harrison through the lobby and to the door, donning his raincoat. This was a strangely calm reaction to the news he had thought would be a bombshell. Shouldn't Harrison have tried to hustle him off to tell IF Howard not to bomb the place? Instead, he was stalling. It was almost as if he was trying to prove something -- that he was reluctant to leave but could be argued out of it. They walked out into the rain, sloshed across the mall. The rain was still coming down heavily. Forrest caught up to Harrison, who was striding along in a direction away from the observatory and toward the far side of Old Nexus City. "Aren't you sort of -- " Overdoing if! Forrest completed the sentence to himself. Harrison turned, still walking. "Sort of what?" "Sort of blase about it all," Forrest said. "This is a dangerous situation. Howard thinks -- " "Forrest, I'm not going. You can tell B.H. to go circle a nova. It's people like him who create situations." "It isn't just Howard's opinion. I thought -- and I still think -- that the Dents may have come down near here. You thought so, too." "I did?" Harrison was going up the steps of an imposing building marked City Hall. "Well, when you said you'd heard a sound that might have been the capsule coming down." Harrison didn't answer. They entered by a revolving door, came into a hall with many side doors. Harrison used one and they found themselves in a spacious room. "This is the council chamber. I'r p the mayor." Harrison picked up a gavel. "Or was. Still am, I suppose." He turned to Forrest, his face serious. "You can tell B.H. that if the Identities are going to get me -- they can get me. I've lived long enough. I've had a quiet life the past twelve years. I don't want to leave here. If this is the end -- so be it." He tapped the gavel expertly. "You go back without me. And that's my last word." Forrest thought he detected a flaw in the situation. He had guessed Harrison was something of a nut -- he had been a hermit for years and would fight to stay as he was. But he ought to know the score. He was a student of interstellar history. He was Howard's close buddy and ought to have some respect for his military opinions. It would seem that, regardless of his attachment to this place, Harrison would sacrifice his personal feelings for the big picture -- the danger that all of them were in, together. Though a loner, Harrison was not known to be antisocial or unpatriotic. Forrest sat down in one of the councilmen's seats, while Harrison browsed through old record books. Forrest believed his own silence would be expected after the unanswerable finality of Harrison's last statement. Forrest would seem to be thinking hard -- which he was. he had seen many facets of Warner Harrison, the hermit of Marconi. He had seen the sick man, the happy recluse, the hobbyist, the pedant, the zany, the friendly guide, the reminiscent old man, the defiant one. It was as if Harrison was trying to reveal all the traits of his character in a single day. He seemed to want to convince Forrest that he really was Harrison. But why would the hermit want to do that? Forrest stiffened. If he really were Harrison he wouldn't give a damn. He might still want to stay on the island, come hell or high water -- but if,Harrisonwere not Harrison, was an alien, a Dent, he would only say he wanted to stay on the island, but would really want to go to Mark Station. Forrest closed his eyes, tried to think clearly and dispassionately while his brain was whirling. The Identities were imitators, actors, and were getting better all the time. If Harrison was a Dent -- then all the tests had failed. Howard had better be advised -- and quickly. How could Forrest be sure, though? He could not challenge Harrison with an explosive accusation. One thing characterized the Dents' acting, good as it was. Sometimes they overacted. Unless they had conqueredthis failing. For, if Harrison Was a Dent, this particular Dent deserved to win the Academy Award. Forrest felt for the pistol under his raincoat, looking at Harrison speculatively as he prowled the bookshelves of the council chamber. Harrison? Could he even think of him now as Harrison? There was no certainty, one way or the other. He tried to keep in mind the fleeting thought he had just had; it might be the key. All actors overact, at times. They must. They are playing out a lie and the lie must be strongly constructed. The Identities, with their perfect memories, were capable of building the ultimate lie -- an imitation human being. In strengthening the fiction they might go too far, just to make sure they were believable. He thought of the little Earth animal, some kind of rodent, which had a life-saving habit of playing dead when approached by some dangerous predator. He had read somewhere that this creature feigned death perfectly, could be touched and handled without showing signs of life. But when placed upright it would roll over and play dead again. Such an action wouldn't fool anyone but the other dumb animals. Harrison was at the window. "It looks like it's letting up," he said. "Let's go take a look at the beach." Forrest forced himself to get up in spite of his shaky knees. Trying IF not to appear nervous, he walked out with -- Harrison? IV T HE other side of the city hall overlooked a park. The gray ocean lay beyond. There was a small beach below the sea wall, protected by a breakwater. The rain had almost stopped and the sky was brighter, though still overcast. The waters were slate gray and full of tossing whitecaps. Forrest and Harrison stood on the city hall steps. Harrison said, "You can see the whole outer shoreline, from here. Look for aliens while you have the opportunity." To one side were an amusement center and a playground; on the other were small apartment houses. The park extended along the shore and the beach could be seen along its entire length. There was a boat-landing farther on, but otherwise nothing broke the symmetry of the combers and the sands. What a perfect place for a Dent capsule to land, out of sight of the observatory... They stood for a while in silence, the sounds of the seashore coming faintly up to them. Something seemed missing. "No sea gulls," said Forrest. "No fish," said Harrison. "There's some life on this planet. but it's very primitive. About th? trilobite stage. Still, when the men imported some fish for sporting purposes something ate them. Interesting, but not my line." Forrest was thinking of how to prove that this man was or was not a Dent. How could he? No test would work now. He couldn't test Harrison for overacting. Had Harrison rolled over once too often? It was strange that the radio was out, while no reception was possible 'in any case because of the storm and because the mast was down, too. That the copter was wrecked, though no one, least of all Harrison, would think of flying one in this weather. That he had contacted Howard by means of a haywire hookup via the stars -- but not even that was destroyed. The situation was too pat. There was one way to make Harrison show his hand. Hermit and Dent had different goals, different intentions. It was Forrest's turn to lie. "I don't think the capsule has landed here at all," he said, watching Harrison's reactions. "I think I'd better get back to Mark. If you don't want to come, all right. I'll talk B. H. out of bombing the island. If he's held out this long, he'll wait till I contact him. You can stay here and more power to you. If the Dents come, give 'em hell." "I can take care of the Dents," said Harrison. route, walking past the workers' deserted apartment houses. Harrison took Forrest through one of them and he found it still in livable condition. Merely uninhabited. Harrison was silent now -- he seemed to be baffled. Was he trying to think of a way to reverse his stand? Forrest found himself waiting for Harrison to suggest that perhaps he might change his mind and leave the island after all... Not that this in itself would prove that Harrison was -- or was not -- a Dent. Forrest would have to come up with a test, a positive one. He had not tried a physical examination -- he wished he had done so when he had had a chance, but at that moment Harrison had been ill and had just passed two tests with flying colors. If Forrest pulled a pistol on him now to force him to submit to an examination, the game would be over. Harrison had a pistol too. The game would be over -- maybe a showdown was best by now. Forrest's own play-acting had gone on long enough. The real Harrison should not object to physical examination. And suddenly Forrest remembered -- another test that could bear repetition. When Harrison led him out to the street and across it to the old theater, Forrest saw his opportunity had come. Theaters were not lit from outside and could be made perfectly dark. He was going to try the "blink" test again. "This was once the most popular place on the island," Harrison was saying, walking down the theater aisle. "I just wanted to see it one more time before -- before you go." He walked to the front row and sat down. The lights had come on when they had entered, as they had in all the other buildings. But here, Forrest thought, there had to be a switch. He walked below the stage, pretending to be inspecting the place, but actually he was headed for the side door. As he reached it he noted with satisfaction that there was a switch on the wall. He put his back to it, leaned against it, facing the interior of the theater. "Harrison," he said. "I'm sorry, but my time's up. I really have to be going. Now." The other man looked at him and said, "Wait. I've changed my mind. I think I'll go back to Mark with you after all." He stood up, started toward Forrest. You haven't changed your mind , just your body , thought Forrest. He took out the pistol, pointed it at Harrison. "Stand where you are." He flashed on the light, playing it on Harrison's face. "You blink too much. Can't you face a strong light?" Harrison's eyes widened, but he stood still. "What's the matter with IF you, Forrest? Have you gone insane?" He held his hands loosely in the air. "No, I've suddenly gone sane. Stand right where you are -- don't move." Harrison attempted to smile. "What is this, another test?" F OR an answer, Forrest reached behind him and snapped out the house lights. He also turned off his flashlight. Pitch blackness surrounded him and he suddenly realized that this was a foolhardy thing to do. He counted silently, intending to count to ten. But at five he lost his nerve and flicked on the flashlight. of Harrison, now much closer to him, eyes unblinking in the full glare of the light. He saw that Harrison had his own pistol out. Forrest flipped off the light, ducked and fired almost simultaneously with Harrison. Both shots went wild. In the darkness Forrest went for the door. It was only a few feet behind him. He plunged into the dimly lit alleyway, which soon led him to the marketplace. He was not going to go after Harrison now -- it was back to the skater and he knew the way. He ran across the wet square and made for the bridge. The observatory was plainly in sight -- the rain was only falling lightly. He risked turning around and saw Harrison -- or the Dent -- just now coming out of the theater, aiming a shot at him. He ducked, returned fire and started a zigzag run toward the bridge. He saw with satisfaction that he could outrun Harrison all the way. Harrison? It was hard to think of his pursuer as a Dent -- an alien Identity. The real Harrison was probably dead. The test had worked -- or rather, the trap. The Dent had decided that the situation had become unpredictable and had tried to take advantage of the darkness that Forrest unexpectedly had given him. He had exposed the alien, but he was barely escaping with his life. What would Howard say? Howard had warned Forrest to be careful, and now he had fiddled away hours talking to a damned Dent. Now if he could just get back to the skater and launch it, back to Mark and tell B.H. to loose the missiles, the situation might still be saved. It certainly was a wonderful thing... He pounded onto the bridge, almost tripping over the rollercoaster tracks. That crazy ride -- that should have been his tipoff. He should have gone back to the skater then. Another shot whistled past him, whined off the buildings on the far side. He was halfway across the bridge and decided not to slow down to see what Harrison was V doing. Better to concentrate on running. Nearly across the bridge, trying to think of the shortest way to the skater ramp, he saw a figure ahead of him, beyond the end of the bridge. A man wearing a flapping raincoat was running toward him. The gait, the bulk, the blue suit showing under the open raincoat, all were familiar. Howard. Forrest didn't pause -- he continued running. What was Commander Howard doing here? How had he come here? Who was watching the store? "B.H.," he called, "Get back! Harrison is a Dent and he's right behind me -- " He ran to within a few yards of Howard, turned, aiming his pistol. He could not see Harrison, who was not yet on the bridge, but he squeezed off a shot anyway, heard it ricochet across the railings. Then the figure of Harrison appeared at the far end of the bridge, pumping away, and Forrest took careful aim. He couldn't miss. Something hit him from behind. Clubbing blows on his head and shoulders caused him to drop the pistol and fall to the wet pavement. Rapidly losing consciousness, he saw Howard standing over him, his face expressionless. He heard Harrison's voice, then nothing. senses gradually against the resistance of a throbbing headache, a loud roaring, a tightly cramped position, and, over all, a continuous jouncing motion. Though he seemed unable to move his body he was never still -- he was seated, legs folded, upon a jolting floor, which slanted and jumped, tossing him about with every shift and slide. Even before he opened his eyes he realized he was in the rear compartment of the skater, moving at top speed through the fury of a storm. Pain and sickness threatened to return him to unconsciousness. He groaned, shook his head to clear it and opened his eyes. He was facing forward, his back against the rear panel, next to some luggage. He was surprised to find he was not tied, but he could not move his limbs -- or at least he found that it was extremely difficult to move them. A sort of numbness enfolded him, not entirely explained by his stiff and cramped position. It felt like some kind of paralysis, slowly wearing off. Harrison and Howard sat in the front seats, either, of course, was human. Harrison -- notHarrison -- was driving the skater. The storm was worse than ever and Howard -- or the Dent who looked like Howard -- was helping to drive, as was the automatic pilot. IF its whining up and down the scale adding to the din -- and between the three of them they were having a difficult time. Forrest could not help smiling, despite his predicament. Everyone had problems. Lightning and darkness and driving rain were all he could see through the windows. He could not see the instruments from where he was, but he could imagine their wild warnings. The waves could be heard -- and felt -- hitting the bottom of the skater. Take it up higher , he tried to say, but he could not make an intelligible sound. Soon, however, the aliens seemed to arrive at the same conclusion and the skater became more stable. The shaking continued with moderation. The Dent-thatwas-Howard relinquished the controls to Dent-Harrison and turned around. Forrest looked into the face of Howard that was not the face of Howard. He felt sick. He wanted to go back to unconsciousness, but instead stared into the eyes of the Dent. He imagined he could see hatred there, but he could not be sure. He knew nothing about the psychology of the Identities -- he would soon learn, he imagined. "Is he awake?" asked DentHarrison, not turning around, his attention on the instruments. Dent-Howard opened his mouth and a croaking sound came from it. "Speak English," admonished the other Dent. "You've got to keep in practice, ven if we won't need your impersonation for a while." "Practice?" snapped DentHoward. "I fooled Harrison -- and you didn't fool this one." "All right, I admit I delayed too long. He wasn't suspicious at first. But I had to play hard to convince, remember." Forrest noticed that Dent-Harrison was wearing a slightly different combination of clashing colors, purple and green. Dent-Howard, in the usual subdued blue, seemed angry. "And so you nearly ruined our chances. If I hadn't come running you would have let him escape in the skater -- and then where would we be?" "I thought of calling you from the theater, didn't I? That was quick thinking -- " "The only time you ever thought anything quickly. If you weren't my own bud I'd -- " He ended with a croaking, hissing sound. busying himself with the controls. Dent-Howard looked coldly at Forrest -- an expression that Forrest himself had never seen on the real Howard's face. "What'll we do with him?" Forrest waited for the other Dent's reply. "Why -- we'll use him. Even though we can no longer use him as a dupe, we can use him as a model." Forrest couldn't see Dent-Harrison's face, but he imagined the alien smiled. "He would have been better as a dupe," croaked Dent-Howard. "Of course," returned DentHarrison. "But we Krawk-sss -- " Now it was Dent-Howard's turn to admonish. "Dents! Don't say Krawk-sss. You must remember." "Identities -- always say, if one thing doesn't work, try another. It would be hard for me to go it alone now, try to convince Howard that Forrest got lost or killed or something -- that would immediately make him suspicious. So we've got to replace Forrest with another imitation." "Not me," said Dent-Howard. "I can't shift from character to character, like a damn repertory player. This is method acting, and you've got to be the man you impersonate. Trying to do more than one character weakens both. Note how well I've learned. I don't have to tell you how important this expedition is. There can't be any more slips. That's why they chose me -- us. I've got to keep on being Commander Howard -- later we'll be using him in contact with the outside." Dent-Howard's face became almost genial. "Two down and one to go. Tomorrow we control Marconi -- and with it this system. The day after that, the stellar sphere." "You're getting ahead of yourself. We haven't head from the starship yet." "We will. As soon as we do our part, they'll do theirs." "If this storm keeps up -- " began Dent-Harrison. "It had better keep up," said Dent-Howard. "I don't know how long it's supposed to last, but our people will be back and seed another before this one blows itself out, if necessary. By that time we'll be in possession of the station and we won't have to worry about cover. And then we won't have to worry about anything. We'll dominate space from Denebola to system's end. Say -- he's moving a little. I thought you -- " Forrest had managed to move his arms a bit, but had only succeeded in attracting the Dent's attention. Dent-Howard frowned, reached out a hand and touched Forrest on the side of the neck with the tip of a finger. It seemed to Forrest that a needle had struck him -- he felt a stinging, pain, then numbness. He became dizzy; then the dizziness steadied into a paralysis that spread down his neck and shoulders and through his body. So this was how they had kept him quiet, without the necessity of bonds. What were the Dents, anyway? What kind of creatures were they really? Dent-Harrison said, not turning from the control panel, "You'll have to bud again." IF "Why me? Why not you this time? It takes a lot out of me' complained Dent-Howard. "You'll have more time to rest. I'll have to do Harrison very shortly, when we contact Mark Station. This is the most important impersonation we've attempted and I'll have to be alert. Howard knows Harrison well. He hardly knows Forrest at all." "He has the personnel records on Forrest. We don't." "We have the original." From the sound of his voice, Dent-Harrison was grinning. Without further argument, Dent-Howard stood up as far up as the ceiling of the skater allowed, swung the seat back and climbed into the rear compartment, pushing Forrest to one side. Jammed back against the luggage in a corner, Forrest watched helplessly. The Dent took off his blue coat, swaying slightly, but managed to remain standing. The skater ran more smoothly now, gave a jar or twist only now and then. DentHarrison was driving better -- the Dents learned fast. his undergarments, which showed him as beefy but not flabby and very pink-skinned. Swiftly, the pink changed to gray. His face lost its features along with its color. The Dent's body became slighter and a little shorter. The arms and legs became smooth, shiny, modeling-clay gray. The arms now ended in long, tapering fingers and the legs and feet were like gray boots. The torso became tubular and the head like a gray rubber ball, balanced on a small neck. Two black spots of eyes and a small oval mouth were all the features that remained. The trade-Dent slipped off the loose underclothing and was revealed as sexless and uniformly smooth, gray and shiny all over. Rubber doll was a fitting description. Forrest shrank back in his corner. The Dent wasn't horrible in itself. It was more comic than frightening, but Forrest had the feeling of a nightmare coming on. He was overcome with a childhood fear, of the circus-Dent back on Einstein, the parody of Man, with its black spot eyes and comic mouth. The Dent who had been Howard had reverted to the tradeform, which, Forrest remembered all too well, was still not the real Dent. Now another transformation was taking place. Forrest wished he could look away, but he stared, fascinated. He had never seen an original Dent, nor had any other human alive, as far as he knew. He fought down his horror, kept his eyes open. The rubber-doll aspect began to disappear, but the gray color remained. The figure shortened again, or perhaps it only seemed so because the head was vanishing into the shoulders. Watching this, Forrest missed seeing the legs grow together, but now they were one, the figure standing solidly like a gray tree trunk. It only swayed slightly when the skater hit a rough spot, painfully jolting Forrest against the wall. The top of the rapidly changing creature was not flat, except for a circular mouth facing upward. The arms shortened while the fingers lengthened, becoming tentacles. Now a crown of ten waving tentacles surrounded the mouth, topping the cylindrical body, which tapered to a single foot or base, not rooted to the floor but moving freely, if slowly. The creature as a whole looked like some sort of gigantic polyp. Which no doubt it was, Forrest thought. Howard's clothes, scattered on the floor, seemed utterly irrelevant to the thing standing there, tentacles waving. Forrest had to look out the window at the raging storm for a moment to steady himself. Of all forms of life, this was one of the lowest. The coelenterates of Earth's warm seas near the base of the evolutionary tree, did not even have a circulatory system, nor a separate digestive tract. They were simply animated barrels. Forrest smiled, in spite of himself. He was thinking of Harrison at the beach -- Harrison, or DentHarrison, had mentioned trilobites. It would be a long, long time before creatures such as the Identities could reach the level of the trilobites -- even if they hadn't branched off in another direction. So these were the real Dents. Forrest had expected something different: insects, squids, spiders, slugs -- all of them less alien than this. He and the Dents -- or at least the similar forms of life on Earth -- had had nothing in common since before the planarian worms and a little after the sponges. The Dents weren't even bilateral, they were radially symmetrical. How alien can you get? Yet he had to hand it to them. Of all the many forms of life which had attained intelligence within the explored stellar sphere, this was the only race he had heard of that belonged to the coelenterata . On many planets, similar forms of diverse origin conformed to conditions that were similar, just as on Earth creatures of different ancestry approached each other in form. So the polyps were not peculiar to Earth. These had attained great size, were able to live out of water and support themselves without skeletons, he supposed. And they had somehow added protective mimicry, shape-changing. No skeleton, a soft, tough, rubbery skin -- just right for it. IF The gray creature was standing as if rooted yet it was in constant motion. The tentacles were waving inward and outward in a complex motion that made Forrest dizzy. One reached toward him -- a long filament came out of its tip, touched Forrest's cheek and he felt numb again. He had time to think of the stinging nettles of the Hydra. The tentacles seized Forrest roughly, pulled him up, held him suspended for a moment, then threw him back into the corner. "What are you doing?" inquired Dent-Harrison. "Don't eat him." The polyp-creature made a deep approximation of Howard's voice. "I deserve him after all the trouble he's caused me." His voice sounded as if it came from a rain barrel. "The trouble he's caused youV ' said Dent-Harrison. "Why didn't you eat Harrison while you were in the storeroom?" "I thought you still needed him for study," boomed the other Dent. "Well, we still need Forrest now." Dent-Harrison turned back to the controls. This was a reprieve. And Harrison was alive, back on the island. He wouldn't be of any immediate help, back there with no transportation and probably locked up, but his being alive was a plus. The Dents, like people, had regrets, made mistakes. Forrest began to feel like a man again. He knew now that the Dent landing was no mere spying mission. This was a planned attempt to take over Marconi Station and with it the entire planet and system. He wished he had some way of communicating with Howard. What he could tell him! Not the least of it would be that the Dents by their hostile landing had committed an act of war and need no longer be dealt with as nonbelligerents. Forrest looked speculatively at the alien creature, now quiescent. In spite of the queasy feeling it gave him, he could not help but feel admiration for the thing. It was almost alone on an alien planet, carrying out its mission with rigid self-control. So this was the enemy. Dent-Harrison said impatiently, "Get on with it. We haven't got all day." The Hydralike creature stirred. A round bump formed on its side. This grew into a bud, a branch a few inches long. A crown formed at its tip -- a crown of tentacles. The bud separated and dropped off. It righted itself and attached its lower surface to the floor. Then it began to move. Forrest watched it for a long time. It seemed to grow taller and thicker, its tentacles waving. He heard a rustling noise and saw that the bigger Dent had already changed back to the tradeform, was dressing in Howard's clothes. The figure looked ludicruous for a while in the conservative blue suit, then the grayness faded and the Dent assumed the ruddy features of Commander Howard. It pushed past Forrest and rummaged in the bags, found something which it tossed to the little creature on the floor. The latter caught the food deftly in its tentacles, brought it to its mouth cavity. Forrest felt dizzy and sick. He could take it no longer. He passed out again. VI nestly, telling B.H. all about the alien menace, and Howard didn't seem to care or understand him. He tried to tell Harrison; but Harrison only grinned and turned away. Forrest tried to explain to a faceless rubber doll with eyes like black dots, but the doll wouldn't listen either. He was writing a report and, after he had finished each page, the paper disintegrated. He was talking on the phone and the party at the other end couldn't seem to hear -- there was too much noise, a pounding, crashing, roaring. The sound of the storm separated from the roar of the skater. He realized that he had been dreaming. Forrest struggled to sit up. He felt more uncomfortable than ever. He was not only stiff but his throat was sore. He was bone-tired. He also felt oddly constricted and saw that he was wearing strange clothes. They looked like one of Harrison's outfits, too small for him and with weirdly clashing colors. The red-and-tan striped shirt, the blue-and-green dotted slacks, the bright red shoesox earned his sincere distaste. What had the Dents done with his own clothes? Dent-Howard was sound asleep on the floor. The strange new Hydra bud was nowhere in sight. Occupying the seats ahead were Dent-Harrison and another, a taller, younger man. Dent-Harrison was talking in low tones. Who was the other man? From where Forrest was sitting, he could see only the curly brown hair, the back of the head and fair-skinned neck, the green-and-brown fitted collar-shawl over the natty dark brown shirt -- so that was where his clothes had gone. Dent-Harrison glanced back over his shoulder, remarked, "I think your prototype is awake." The tall man turned his head and looked at Forrest, who stared back in a daze. That face was familiar. The young man showed a superior smile. That smile was familiar, too. The stranger spoke. Even the voice was familiar. "It certainly is a wonderful thing," he said. IF Forrest groaned. He'd have to call this one Dent-Forrest. Dent-Harrison took the controls and the Dent that looked like Forrest resumed asking questions. Forrest did not want to talk, but found he couldn't help answering. Everything, from military information to personal secrets, came out. When the Dent paused in his questioning Forrest found himself volunteering further information, unasked. Things the Dent would never have thought of, probably. Dent-Forrest flashed his superior smile. "We can't really read minds," he explained. "But we have something just as good, you see. We have drugs to loosen your tongues. Combined with our encyclopedic knowledge and our tape-recorder memories, what else is needed? Of course only select spies, with great talents, such as -- we -- are chosen for infiltration." What an insufferable egotist , thought Forrest. Then he realized that the Dent was faithfully copying his own image. He resolved to reform if he ever got out of this. "We've only recently perfected our disguises," said Dent-Forrest. "Your vaunted 'elapsed time test' is no good any more -- nor are any of your other tests. If you really want to know, you've been defeated by our scientific inventiveness, something of yours we've also developed only recently. Hoist with your own petard. A simple injection of a radioactive element gives us all the time-sense we need. Other tests can be counteracted -- that's a good word, counteracted , because it is our superior acting ability that defeats you." "How about overacting?" The Dent sneered. "Watch your language. Speak when I tell you to speak and then don't stop till I tell you to stop. For too long we Dents -- Identities -- even the name is derogatory; we don't all look alike -- we Krawk-sss have posed as silly traders. Do you think this is the start of a war? It's been a war for a long time. We expanded into the region of Denebola for the express purpose of cutting your empire in half. We're going to take over this planet first -- with its impenetrable defenses that can be run by only one-man. How? By replacing that man with one of ours." "You haven't replaced Howard yet." "No, but it's just a matter of time. We had to do all this in stages, first by coming in under cover of a storm -- our own storm, by the way -- then by landing on Nexus Island, the weakest spot on the planet, and imitating one of you, Howard, to capture another one of you, Harrison. Then our clever scheme of sending a message -- " Forrest frowned. "Then Harrison didn't even send that message?" "Of course not. I -- we sent it. You should have been more suspicious." "You still haven't got to Mark Station. B.H. is not as defenseless as Harrison was." "I know," said the Dent. "This is why we chose this roundabout method. We couldn't possibly have taken Mark Station by force. So we worked out this infiltration scheme, involving only one Dent at first. Of course we found it necessary to increase our number to three." He grinned. "The only tough thing was getting a dossier on Commander Howard in the first place. We didn't have a live model, so we faked him, even to Dent-manufactured clothing. Since he is a public figure the task was not impossible, merely difficult. And the result fooled Harrison for the short time necessary. That was all that was intended. Next time we'll have a live model to work from." really would -- he pictured B.H. pressing the Panic Button, blowing up the planet. Then he was telling the Dent about the button -- against his will. Dent-Forrest shook his head. "We know all about the Panic Button. It will be touch-andgo -- but we can handle it. If the planet is destroyed, of course, that would be a victory for us too, but we don't want it that way. We have plans. No use telling them to you now. You might -- talk." He smiled maliciously. Forrest's mind was racing. The fact that this invasion was so carefully planned might be its weakness. Maybe it would succeed only if everything went exactly right. A slight deviation had already been forced by his exposure of Dent-Harrison, making it necessary for them to create a subsitute for himself. Another deviation it might mean their defeat. But how could he force another one? The Dents might fool B.H. at least long enough to land on Mark Island and get inside the base. They were, ostensibly, Jim Forrest and Warner Harrison coming back from Nexus, Forrest bringing Harrison to safety from the aliens. Howard, if not told otherwise, would believe that bringing them inside his defenses would make Marconi safer. Warned, Howard had the firepower to blow the skater out of the water as it approached the island. If he missed he could push the button that would mean his own destruction and everyone else's. Forrest was wishing for his own death in hoping to warn Howard, but he knew that letting the Dents take Marconi was worse. This was only one battle in a big campaign IF to take over the stellar sphere, but it was a decisive one, as first battles sometimes are. Forrest had no illusions about his own survival much longer. The Dents wouldn't be needing him once they had taken the base. They needed him now for questioning and study, but he didn't know for how long. Dent-Forrest was becoming pretty convincing. DentHarrison was nearly perfect and couldn't help, but fool Howard. Forrest couldn't do anything about that -- but he might be able to do something about the imitation of himself, before it was too late. Perhaps he could strike some false note, speak some uncharacteristic phrase or give some phony information that would, when Commander Howard heard it, betray Dent-Forrest. This second-hand method was Forrest's only hope of warning Howard, because he knew that when the time came for contacting the station he would not be allowed to talk, move or even be seen. But Dent-Forrest, as well as Dent-Harrison earlier, had already gotten a lot out of him, more than Forrest himself realized, perhaps. What could he say that was out of character now? One problem was the fact that B.H. really didn't know him very well. Forrest tried to recall what he and Howard had discussed in the Mark control room just before this mission. He had probably already blurted out to Dent-Forrest everything Howard had said. What had he himself said that he might not have told the Dents, that he could falsify now? He remembered something about a comic book. No, it was Howard who had mentioned comics. Forrest could remember saying nothing that hadn't been a direct response to something Howard had said and therefore known to the Dents. He had suggested some ideas to Howard -- could he switch credits, say that one of his suggestions had been Howard's? fid Howard remember the dialogue well enough for the switch to have meaning? Forrest spoke, heedless of the Dent's orders. "I wish Howard had carried out his idea to shoot missiles at the island. I wouldn't have minded -- " "That was your idea, wasn't it?" said Dent-Forrest. "Yeah. I guess it was. After I told him the Dents were dangerous -- " The Dent mimicked, " 'What's so dangerous about a couple of lousy Dents landing in a capsule?' " Forrest sighed. "I guess I talk in my sleep. Calling you lousy is a compliment, anyway. No offense, of course." The other grinned. "Well, it's been nice talking to you. Pretty soon we'll be contacting Howard and, you'll have to keep quiet. Maybe this will help." The Dent flicked his fingertip several times around Forrest's mouth and he found he couldn't move his lips or make a sound... Now he couldn't talk at all. He had failed in trying to fake something and now it was too late. It certainly was a wonderful thing... T HE skater roared on toward Mark Station. That it was quite close now was evident from the fact that Dent-Harrison was trying to make radio contact. Dent-Forrest, now driving, was likewise preoccupied. The wind had increased and was tossing the little ship from side to side. Oblivious to it all, Dent-Howard was sleeping soundly in one corner of the rear compartment, while Forrest sat wakefully in the other corner. Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of the party... ran through his mind, ironically appropriate. Forrest tried to move his legs and found that he could move them. All the numbing stings that he had recently received had been on his face and neck and the numbness had spread through his upper body alone. His legs seemed to have lost their previous paralysis. He shifted about uncomfortably, straightened his legs and stood up, leaning against the corner of the wall, swaying with the skater's motion. No one noticed. The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog... As an experienced skater pilot, Forrest knew the way the ship was balanced precariously atop its jetstream. And not too irrelevantly, yet another typing-practice sentence popped into his mind. A quick movement of the enemy will jeopardize six gunboats . He put one foot against the wall and braced. Starting to topple toward the center of the compartment, toward the sleeping Dent on the other side, he put all his strength into the kick, hoping he'd fall on Dent-Howard instead of the hard floor. Fighting to keep from bending his knees, he threw his body sideways, tumbled headlong across the compartment. At once the skater faltered. Forrest landed on Dent-Howard's body with a thud and the skater slipped sideways, off balance, and plunged into the waves with a tremendous crash. Forrest, jammed into the back of the front seat, was not thrown forward with the terrific deceleration. The shock of water reducing its speed, the skater' bounded into the air and down again, now on its side, now upright, and Forrest was tossed about with the luggage and Dent-Howard. The splashing and crashing seemed interminable. Cries of alarm and confusion revealed that the two Dents in the pilots's seats were trying to stop the IF skater. After it had skipped and bounced along for a few moments more they finally succeeded. Now it tossed about, floating upright on the water, swaying to the motion of the waves, its engines idling. The rain pounded on the roof, but stayed outside. No windows were broken. Strapped in, Dent-Harrison and Dent-Forrest had not been injured. Dent-Howard was unconscious and Forrest was nearly so. After a cursory examination of the ship the two Dents were satisfied that no major damage had been done. The skaters were tough little craft. Dent-Howard stirred, opened his eyes, shook his head and asked, "What happened?" He turned over, pushed Forrest away from him. "We struck a waterspout or something," said Dent-Harrison, matter-of-factly. "You should strap down back there." Forrest, unhurt but thoroughly discouraged, stayed motionless. As long as he had not succeeded in wrecking the skater, he was glad they didn't realize he was to blame for the incident. But when would he get another chance? DentHoward was awake now and alert to any movement. engines, the skater bucked along on the waves and rose into the slightly smoother air. DentForrest took his turn at the radio, trying to contact Mark Station and Commander Howard. What would happen next? When the Dents talked to Howard, what would he do? It all depended on how good the imitations were. Forrest wanted to believe otherwise but he was convinced that they were good enough. Once inside the base -- His thoughts were interrupted by a warning from DentForrest. "Get Forrest down," he told Dent-Howard. "And you get out of sight, too. We don't want B.H. seeing himself." Forrest was pulled roughly to the floor of the compartment, and Dent-Howard sprawled over him, holding him down. The nettles stung him in the mouth again, for good measure. He couldn't move his upper body but thought it wise not to reveal just now that his legs were relatively free from the paralysis. He couldn't kick out anyway but if the Dent shifted his position, he might be able to. It was a matter of waiting for the right moment. He didn't want to be premature again. Above the roaring of the engines and the storm a new sound echoed through the skater. It was the amplified voice of B. H. Howard. Forrest could not see the screen, could only hear the voices. It was like listening to a conversation on an old blind telephone. "Just a minute," Howard was saying. "Oh. It's the skater. Forrest is back, and Harrison is with him. FU call you back... Am I glad to seeow? I've been hanging by my thumbs. How's your health, Warner? Glad you made it, Jim." The Dents made appropriate answering sounds. Forrest could only see the backs of their heads. The other Dent's face was close to his own, expressionless. Howard cut their greetings short. "Time enough for talk when you get in. Where are you now? Never mind, I've got you, eightyseven miles out. Come right in and go to work, all hell's breaking loose. You'll have to park on the ramp and walk in through the shed, so I can test you. Did you see any Dents?" Forrest could see his counterpart shaking his head. "Not a sign of them, B.H." Was Howard being taken in? It looked like it. "Everybody's asking me," said Howard. "I'd sure like to know, one way or the other. Hold on... Mark here. Yes, Commander Roscoe. What?" There was a long silence. "Damn the military. They can't see beyond their eyeballs. This place is worth defending if anything is. You can't get a better link planet than Marconi or a better location than Denebola... No, I'm staying here, hell or high water and I think I'm going to get both pretty soon... Just until? If they can get us off, they can defend us... How do we know what the Dents are going to do? All the real spies are on their side...Look, if I gave you some proof, would you? Just a minute... Warner, tell me; did you see any evfdence that there was any landing made, did you hear any thing, see any -- " "Not a thing," said Dent-Harrison innocently. "All I know is whatForrest told me. I was ready fot them, though. Listen, why can't we -- " "Not now," said Howard. "Whatever it is. Hello, Roscoe? Isn't the fact that the capsule landed somewhere enough? My men are back now and they haven't seen anything, but that doesn't mean... No, I can't prove a damn thing yet... Yes, I know it would be an overt act... Yes I know President Grulzak wants to declare war. So do I... Hello... Cut off." lence for a few moments, though Forrest could hear Commander Howard making some mechanical clicking noises. Dent-Harrison said, "Why can't we defend Nexus? I didn't want to abandon it. Forrest says you might destroy the island. Wouldn't it be better to fortify it?" "Too late for that," said Commander Howard. "Never mind that now. Get in here at top speed. IF We're going to have to button up." "You're going to destroy the island?" asked Dent-Harrison in a worried voice. "I don't know," said Howard. "I'll have to consult Regulus about that, I suppose. I get all kinds of advice from the stars. And I don't believe in astrology... Hello, Regulus? No, not Director Bennett. I was speaking to Commander Roscoe. I was cut off. This is Howard, Commander Howard, Director Howard, whathave-you, jack-of-all-trades Howard, Marconi. Hello, Roscoe. No, it wasn't my fault. I never cut anybody off... Look, if I see any Dents, I'll hit 'em first and then tell you about it, but I haven't seen anything to shoot at yet. If there were some of your ships around, they could chase some Dents in here... No, I haven't heard from the Lone Ranger yet, our Grand Home Fleet of one guard ship. Probably tangling with the Dents a light-month away." Howard paused, seeming to remember something. "I wanted to ask you, shall I shoot missiles to destroy Nexus Island? All right, I won't... Certainly they can land on the water, but not around here. Maybe near Nexus, that's the reason... I can't do any searching till this storm lets up. Can't see the nose in front of your face with instruments... Not a thing on the scope... I have my own skater here on the screen, shall I blast it? Maybe it is Dents, how the hell should I know?... Certainly, I'll test them, before I let them in. What do you take me for?... What do you mean don't be sarcastic? I can be as sarcastic as I want to be. You're not my military commander. I'm responsible for this station and if you want to get the President on the line... Well, I thought you were ordering me around... Sorry, Roscoe, I got carried away... What do I need? More Dents, maybe... Goodbye. Off." Dent-Harrison spoke up. "What did he say?" "No decision yet. Don't do anything. Well, I'm doing it. They said not to bother hitting the island now. We'll either abandon the whole planet, or if we reinhabit the island we can fumigate it. As long as you're here now, Warner, it doesn't matter. The whole purpose was to keep the Dents out of Mark Station. They can't get here from the island now, any more than they can from the sea. And there might be peace, he thinks. Or someone thinks." Dent-Forrest asked, "What's the situation now? Strategy-wise, I mean." Howard paused a moment before answering. "The Dents can't attack Marconi in force and they're not going to try, he says. It has to be infiltration. Somewhere on this planet there's a Dent capsule. After the storm, we'll find it. Right now we button up. He says if there was positive evidence of a landing, they'd call it an overt act and declare war. I wish I could find some evidence, but I can't. I'm too honest. The Dents might be peaceful, after all. Then again, they might want to take the base without causing a war. They aren't going to get away with that . I've got Regulus and Arcturus on sixteen-hour alert. If they hear from me, or if they don't hear from me -- " He left the sentence unfinished. filled the skater for a bit. Forrest was calculating the exact moment to throw off the Dent, jump up and attract HowandVattention. Dent-Howard looked strong, especially in the arms. Forrest tried to picture him as a tentacled polyp. What were its strong points? What were its weak points? "Now, tell me," said the voice of Commander Howard. "How did it go? What took you so long?" "Convincing Harrison to leave," said Dent-Forrest. "I could have done that in ten minutes," said Howard. "Anyway, while this phone is quiet, let's talk. I have some questions to ask. Uh, purely routine. Warner, you used to be quite a fan of detective fiction. In The Case of the Oil Stained Gardener , who was the murderer?" "The author," answered DentHarrison. "Why don't you ask me what my great-aunt's maiden name is?" "Well, what is your great-aunt's maiden name?" "I don't know. What's the point of these tests? If the Dents can read minds -- " "They can't read minds," replied Howard. "That's where we have them. No matter how they grill their victims, they can't get everything out of them. So random questioning may trip them up. Jim, I have one of your books here. Sorry to have to pry, but I've been looking through your bookcase -- " "I hope you haven't tom my comic books." Dent-Forrest laughed. "What comic books? I've never seen you with a comic book. What are you talking about?" Forrest, down on the floor, felt a thrill of hope. But the Dent laughed it away. "I meant my paperbounds -- you sometimes called them comic books." "So I did," said Howard. "Anyway, here's a book. The Life and Times of Claude Degler. What's it about?" Dent-Forrest said quickly, "A French artist who goes to the South Pacific and gets his ear cut off in a native brawl. Sort of a historical novel." A fluttering noise came, then a snap. "All right. It might be a bestIF seller among the Dents for all I know. I can't tell anything on TV anyway. I'll test you again when you come in. I have a whole battery of tests I can use." None of which will work , thought Forrest despondently. He began to tense for the job of overthrowing the Dent holding him down. Now? What was his weak spot? Not his arms, which were tentacles, really. Not his body, which was tough and strong. Not his head, which was only a dummy. His mouth -- If he could hit him in the mouth and penetrate deeply inside it -- might make him uncomfortable. But Forrest could only move his legs. Could he get his foot in the Dent's mouth? Dent prevented him from shifting his position without hardly being aware of him. He supposed he was making some noise but it couldn't be heard above the competition of the skater and storm. Just as Forrest thought he was about to get into a position where he could shake off the Dent, stand up and attract Howard's attention, the opportunity was lost. The skater bumped twice, then rose at an angle, settled with a jar and stopped moving. They were on the ramp at Mark Island. Forrest struggled harder, seemed to be gaining at least a chance to use his legs. The engines stopped and the rain was left as background noise. "We're here," announced DentHarrison. "Welcome aboard," said the voice of Commander Howard, on the TV. "Leave the skater there, walk up the ramp and into the shed. I'll be ready for you." "All right, B. H. Be seeing you," said Dent-Forrest and snapped off the TV. This was an unexpected blow to Forrest's chances. He slumped, exhausted and weary. How could he attract Howard's attention without the TV? The two Dents in front were struggling into their raincoats. The door was opened. The noise of the rain came louder and a cool breeze blew in on Forrest. He felt Dent-Howard relax his grip -- he must have been uncomfortable too -- so he wormed his way into a more favorable position. Dent-Howard asked, "What'll I do with Forrest?" Forrest could plainly see the smirking face of his double in the door light. "You can do anything you want with him." This was the black moment to end all black moments. Forrest had hoped to plant some suspicion in B. H.'s mind, so that he would not let the Dents in. But Howard was letting them in. They would get into the shed, pass all the tests, enter the control room, chat a while, catch B. H. by surprise and kill him. The base would be theirs, and the whole system it controlled. But first -- Forrest's own end. The rain drifted in as the two Dents stood in the doorway. Forrest shivered and not just from the cold. "Keep him alive," decided DentHarrison surprisingly. "I think your bud needs more lessons. His goof about the comic books almost fixed us." He turned to DentForrest. "Let me do most of the talking but keep your pistol handy. I've got the grenades, if we need them." Dent-Howard had sat up. The pressure was off and Forrest was able to move a little. He didn't want to reveal that he could move a lot until the other two were gone. Dent-Howard would be tired and stiff, relaxing after his long ordeal. It was still three to one; soon it would be one to one. Forrest lay still, waiting his chance. Dent-Forrest walked up the ramp. Dent-Harrison lingered, gave Dent-Howard some last-minute instructions, or perhaps consolations for being left out of the action. "It won't take long. Watch him closely till we come back -- or till we give you the word to come in. Don't call us, we'll call you." And he was gone, slamming the door. Immediately, without giving the Dent a chance to think, Forrest sprang into action. Literally sprang. Putting all his strength into straightening his legs, he threw off the Dent and stood up in one swift motion. He was counting on the fact that Dent-Howard wasn't up to par and that the surprise attack would prevent him from using his paralyzing stingers. Forrest found his balance, avoided the Dent's groping arms and kicked him full in the face. The Dent's mouth sagged open and he fell back against the wall. Forrest pushed one of Harrison's bright red shoesox right into the Dent's mouth. Farther and farther he pushed it, the Dent now sitting helplessly on the floor, his head back, arms waving aimlessly. The Dent's face was beginning to deform like heated plastic, the mouth expanding enough to take the whole.foot. Forrest stood above the Dent, jamming his foot in up to the ankle, the shin. The Dent seemed to be weakening rapidly. Forrest imagined he was doing great damage to the Dent's primitive insides. He kicked around and his foot felt like it was sloshing in something liquid. Suddenly he felt the Dent go limp. Forrest breathed heavily a while, then withdrew his foot. The Dent slumped to the floor like an empty bag. Forrest stood swaying for a moment, then leaned against the corner of the skater. No cheers, but he had won. What now? There was no time to be wasted. What could he do? IF The Dents were in the shed. He had to warn Howard quickly. What he had to do was a job for an acrobat. Balancing carefully, so he wouldn't fall to the floor and have trouble getting up again, he managed to push one knee against the front seat, swing it back. He crawled into the other seat, sat down with a painful crash and groaned. Or tried to -- he still couldn't make his mouth work. He tried to lift the foot he had used on the Dent, but it hurt so much that he had to put it down. He lifted the other foot and stretched it toward the control panel. Don't call us, we'll call you. He snapped on the TV with his toe, leaned forward as it came on brightly. was looking the other way, peering into another TV screen, which apparently showed the interior of the shed. He was pressing buttons. Tape reels were rotating, instruments were flashing and humming. Tests were being given. Tests that would fail , as had all the others , thought Forrest. Howard must have fixed up the skater shed as a test room while Forrest was away. No doubt he could see the two Dents in there, but the expression on his face was merely intent, not suspicious. Before long he would be satisfied and would push the button to let the Dents into the main building of Mark Station. That would be the beginning of the end. But now Forrest was on TV and he was trying to make a noise. He banged on the panel with his good foot, now with both, unmindful of the pain. Howard, fiddling with dials and pushing buttons, seemed oblivious to the racket. Forrest kept up his foot-drumming, frantically, Suddenly Howard frowned, turned toward him. Staring into the TV, Howard's eyes widened. His mouth opened, but he made no sound. He looked back at the other TV, and then at Forrest, who could only sit there, trying to make some meaningful motion with his head, some sound with his mouth. He wondered what sort of a crazy man he looked like to Howard. Howard closed his eyes for a moment, then turned back to the other screen. A look of anger was now on his face, the one that Forrest had never seen, had only heard of by reputation. Howard's face grew red. He pressed buttons, pulled switches and reached out for a lever that looked something like the handle and trigger of a gun. He looked steadily into the other TV, gripped the lever. Forrest heard a noise like the stuttering of a typewriter or the chattering of a machinegun. There was a sudden loud explosion, then another. The control panel in front of Howard shattered. Dust filled the air. Forrest could see Howard doggedly gripping the lever, his expression slowly changing from angry to determined and finally tired. He let go of the lever, glanced at the damaged control panel and turned toward Forrest, who was still trying to understand what had happened and was helpless to say or do any thing. Commander Howard stared angrily at Forrest. "I might have killed my best friends, just now. But I don't think so. What areow, a spare?" At this, he moved some levers and switches, pressed some more buttons, frowned in annoyance when nothing happened, hesitated a moment and grabbed for the gun handle again. With a last look of aversion at Forrest, he snapped off the TV. Forrest stared into the blank screen. Now he understood what had happened, but not all of it. The Dents were dead; Howard had gunned them down. He had no time to exult at this, because he now heard the slapping sound of bullets on the skater's hull. He had to act at once. An expert skater pilot can do almost anything with his feet he can do with his hands. Forrest started the engines, lifted off savagely and sailed straight ahead, up at a steep angle. He thought he would confuse Howard for a moment by taking off over the island, instead of backing up toward the sea. It was a hairy maneuver and Forrest nearly fell out of his seat -- he couldn't strap in -- but he just made it over the roofs. In a few moments he was bowling along close to the waves on th other side of the island, the automatic pilot resuming its job. It was several seconds before the bullets commenced to follow him again. The island's automatic defenses must have been damaged or he would never be getting away, Forrest thought. Howard was firing manually, obviously, with whatever he could point. It certainly was a wonderful thing. In a way, he had won. Two of the invading Dents were dead and the other was dead or unconscious on the floor of the skater. The station was safe for the moment and he himself was still alive. Yet... Here he was, running for his life. lot at an altitude just above the highest waves. The skater was working perfectly, for which he was thankful. He was also thankful for the storm, for a change. Howard seemed to be firing bigger and bigger stuff as Forrest got farther and farther away from the island. Occasionally the skater rocked with concussion as a big one hit nearby. It demanded every second of Forrest's attention to keep changing his course, to avoid lapsing into a IF pattern that could be predicted manually. He wondered how long the storm would last. Would the Dent starship return to renew it? Would the guard ship, or any other help, arrive? He thought of his friends, homeward-bound on the Stardust . He had volunteered to stay here, thinking perhaps to get ahead where there was little competition. Well, he wasn't too sorry. Maybe he'd get out of this. He just didn't know how. In addition to his constant evasive action, he tried to put maximum distance between himself and Mark Island, but there was nowhere to go. Correction, there was one place to go on the whole planet -- Nexus Island. Howard would expect him to go there. No doubt he would be dropping a missile on the island soon, thinking, and not incorrectly that it was a nest of Dents. Poor Harrison, if he was still alive. The paralysis seemed to be wearing off. Forrest could move his arms again and he immediately set about tying up the Dent, who was not dead but unconscious. He found some straps among the luggage. He improvised them into bonds, doing a thorough job of trussing up the alien. The Dent's resemblance to Howard, in spite of the tom mouth, was remarkable. How did they do it? Well, here was a captive to work on, more valuable alive than dead, when or if he could be put into the hands of the scientists. He found no weapon other than a small pocket pistol, like Harrison's. He returned to the pilot's seat and made a futile attempt to contact Howard. The base did not respond to any signal. What would happen next? It all depended on the orders Howard received from Regulus, which in turn depended on the report Howard turned in. A planet swarming with Dents? It would look like it. Having failed to take over the station by infiltration, they could still try force. Three humans on a planet in the middle of Dent domain. Too bad they were separated. He was a hunted fugitive, scooting over the ocean. Harrison was helpless on Nexus Island. Howard, on Mark, was armed and warned, but not in possession of the facts. The three of them together could hold off an army of Dents. They were not together. A wall of sound hit him. The skater lurched, rose violently into the air, flipped end over end and sank beneath the waves. The engines stopped and Forrest thought the ship wasn't going to surface, but it did. It bobbed erratically on the stormy waters. One of Howard's long-rang missiles had scored. Forresfe decided to play dead for a while. He waited, enduring the seasick motion for about ten minutes. His borrowed clothing was in rags. He rummaged through Harrison's luggage and found a slightly less nauseating combination. Rust and yellow, it was, with a hardly noticeable blue stripe. The island was the only destination possible, after all. Once there he could try -- if the buildings still existed -- to contact Regulus, if he could rig up the radio once again, so that it hooked up to the gravity beam. Get a message to Commander Roscoe, tell him the truth about the enemy and the situation here, get Howard to stop shooting. It seemed like a long, impossible chance. He was a pilot, not a communications technician. The hookup that had been used before was a mass of junk. The odds were against him. But it was the only game in town. Besides, Harrison was there. This was an act of rescue, a mission of mercy once more. He had to get Harrison off the island. Once again. He started the engines, swung around and was off like a bullet, toward Nexus Island. ments told him otherwise he had begun to expect to see no island ahead at all. Howard had big missiles in his arsenal and the island was an artificial one, built up from the ocean floor. So he was a little surprised when he saw it looming darkly and lightless through the rain. It was three o'clock, not yet dawn. He zoomed engines to stop. Why had the island not been bombed? He preferred not to speculate on the reasons for this right now, finding it sufficient to keep in mind that it could be bombed any moment, so that he had to make haste. See what he could do about the radio hookup, rescue Harrison and clear out fast. Make for the other side of the planet, maybe, until the storm was over. Oh, yes -- rustle up some food and supplies. He glanced back at the tied-up Dent and opened the door. The rain soaked him as he ran into the building. He entered the little kitchen belonging to Harrison. He walked over to the circular staircase, pressed the button on the bannister, then impatiently mounted the stairs, two at a time. On the second floor, heMooked into the radio room, the lights coming on as he crossed the threshold. The contraption in the corner, blackened and ruined, caught his eye at once and immediately discouraged him. How could he repair this thing, knowing almost nothing about it? How could even an expert fix it? He gave up the idea of communicating with anyone and left the room. He went to the IF door of the storeroom. This was the door he had almost tried before and Harrison -- the Dent -- had urged him to come away. It was locked. He had no idea where the key was, so he pulled out the Dent's little pistol, stood back and fired. It took four shots before the wrecked door swung open. The place really was a storeroom, he saw when the lights came on. It was stacked with boxes of every description and many other things, some not even recognizable to him. Harrison, too, might be here -- andwas. end of the room, stretched out on a cot. He looked to be unconscious or sleeping. Harrison -- if it really were Harrison and not another Dent -- turned over and suddenly sat up, blinking. Forrest saw that he was shackled to the bunk, which was fixed to the floor. He had been working on his bonds, but ineffectually, as evidenced by signs of scraping on the metal. Forrest was the first to speak. "You've passed ihe blink test." "Who are you?" said Harrison, weakly. "I don't know you, so you can't be a Dent. Dents are only people I know." His mind seemed to be wandering and Forrest became concerned. He asked Harrison if he had had the dose of Contrad he had needed. "Oh, yes," said Harrison. "They deprived me for a while to see what the effects, were, I suppose, then gave me a shot, to see what the recovery effects were. They wanted to fool someone with a half-baked imitation of me. Glad to see that they didn't. Did you shoot them? I thought I heard a lot of shooting going on, but I've lost all track of time. That makes me a possible Dent, doesn't it? The time test, you know." "They're dead. Two of them anyway. But they did fool me." He brought Harrison up to date, while he was working to cut the shackles with some tools he'd found in the storeroom. "So you had the Contrad all along? By the way, my name's Jim Forrest, B.H.'s pilot. I keep forgetting that everything I told the other Harrison isn't known to you." The little man smiled. "So Howard got them both. Good for him. I'll have to talk him out of shooting at us," said Harrison. "He always was a stubborn character. Once B.H.'gets an idea, he carries it to extremes. Of course, that's one of his good points, too." Forrest looked up from his hacksaw work. "Never mind that. We're going to get out of here. No time now to try to fix the star hookup. We'll contact Howard after the storm is over and he's cooled down a little." The last link fell off and Harrison rose shakily. "No, I'm all right. I'm ready to go with you, but let's take a look at that radio first." He led the way out of the storeroom to the communications .room, at first limping, then with a firmer stride. He walked into the radio room, Forrest following. Harrison went over to the multiple TV screens, Forrest waiting by the burnt-out wreckage in the corner. Harrison turned around, looking puzzled. Then he caught sight of the messy contraption near Forrest. "That's not it," said Harrison. "That's an old-style gravity calculator." Irrelevantly Forrest noticed that Harrison was wearing an even more outlafldish outfit than any he'd seen, black-andgreen dotted shirt clashing with red-and-yellow slacks and blue shoesox. Harrison picked up a pair of needle-nose pliers. A few wires stuck out of the jaws. "I just attach this to the back of the TV." He laid down the pliers, fiddled with the TV knobs, got a dim picture. Forrest felt hope returning. Was it possible? Did the thing work? "I thought you said the radio was out?" Harrison flashed another of his grins. "I didn't say that. Did I?" "No -- you didn't. But the mast is down, too." "You're right -- the mast is down." Harrison pressed a button, there was a whirring noise and the TV brightened. "It certainly is a wonderful thing," said Forrest, not knowing whether to be dismayed at the extent of the pent lies, or jubilant. The picture on the screen showed the inside the skater. Barely visible behind the two empty front seats sat the Dent, trussed up, unmoving. "That's all I can get right now," said Harrison. "I can't get New Nexus direct because of the storm. Who's that? The fake Howard? I'd like to pulverize that creature. He had me fooled for a while. Made up a story that his plane had crashed in the water. I talked too much before I found out he wasn't Howard. Then I wrecked the copter, so he couldn't leave the island. He budded another of his kind to study me, copy me. I have nothing against the Dents -- did you see their natural form? Fascinating. But I don't want them masquerading as us. Sure that guy is safe there?" W#E're going out as soon   as I pick up supplies," said Forrest. "Can you get that thing working? We might try to contact Regulus, at that. I'll write out a message in code." "Forget the code," said Harrison. "There's nothing wrong with the TV." He attached the plierslike gimmick. Another screen lit IF up, the view of the skater remaining on the first. "That looks like Director Bennett on Regulus," said Harrison. "Hello, Cecil. You know me, don't look so surprised. I'm not a ghost. Or a Dent either -- don't look at me like that." Forrest saw that the communications director's horror was genuine. He stared at Harrison but addressed someone else. "Commander Roscoe. I think I've got Marconi here." "Marconi?" said another voice. "I've already got Marconi. Let me have that." The picture changed to another face, one Forrest knew well, that of the military commander of the Regulus area. Commander Roscoe. He looked at Harrison long and carefully, glanced at Forrest briefly. He winced. "If you're Harrison and Forrest, I'm an Algieban alligator. What are you trying to pull? For your information, your first Forrest and your first Harrison are in the skater-shed at Mark Station, stiff as barrels. How stupid do you think we are? We're not fooled by identical twins." "Now just a minute," said Harrison angrily. "I've had enough of that. It's bad enough having Dents imitate me without being taken for one. Let me talk to Howard. Put me through to Mark Station. You can do that for me -- even if you think I am a Dent." "You want to see Howard?" The commander's face hardened some more. "Yes, I'm sure he'll want to see you. I've got him on the line now. I've been trying to talk him out of bombing Nexus Island. Maybe I'll change my mind." He cut off and another room filled the picture. It was the familiar interior of the control room at Mark Station, a thousand miles away, relayed via tance. As soon as B.H. Howard came on the screen, he turned red. # Roscoe, don't try to keep me from bombing the island now. You killed my friends, you slimy polyps, and you're soon going to pay for that." "Wait a minute, B.H.," said Forrest. "Aren't you going to give us a fair trial before you condemn us?" Howard glared. "What kind of trial? No tests work. You Dents are too clever. I'm happy to tell you that war's been declared. I've been given a free hand to wipe out any Dents I see. And that includes you." He reached for his evidently repaired control panel, pushed buttons, set dials. "Hold it, Howard." Commander Roscoe came on the screen again and Harrison fixed it so that both occupied separate screens. Roscoe was calmoY, at least by comparison. "You're zeroing in on military property. That island may be valuable to us when we bring in the forces. Can't you wait for your revenge?" "No," said Howard. "I'm not in your jurisdiction. I'll take the responsibility. It's not revenge, it's caution. There's no room for Dents on this planet. Islands are expendable." Forrest didn't like the way things were turning out. He wished he had prepared to leave before making this contact. They had to get out of here right now -- he tried to pull Harrison away. The little man was staring speechless at Howard, who was reaching for the button -- the one that would release missiles already zeroed in on the island. At that moment, motion was seen on another screen, the one that showed the skater's interior. The Dent had gotten loose, and was climbing up front toward the controls. He no longer looked like Howard -- he was a gray rubber doll. Harrison connected the screens so that Howard and Roscoe could see the skater. "There's your Dent -- and, damn it, he's getting away!" The others were frozen at this sight but Harrison sprang into action. He jumped for the control panel, pulled down a lever that resembled the handle of a gun. Up above, from the observatory, could be heard the chattering of gunfire. Harrison swung the controls of the variable cannon, following the now airborne skater on his sights. He pushed buttons increasing the firepower, but soon had to announce that Dent and skater had gotten away in the. storm. T HE incident seemed to have affected Commander Howard at the Mark control panel. He spoke to Harrison in a quieter voice than before. "Was that the last Dent? I'll take cafe of him. Give me the direction and the exact moment he took off. What's the top speed of the skater, Jim?" Forrest was dazed. "About twoten, B.H.," he replied. An equally mystified Harrison checked the angle of the gunsight, and Roscoe came up with an accurate figure for the time of the Dent's departure by consulting the playback tape. Commander Howard began punching a desk computer. Then he adjusted dials on the panel, reached out his arm and pressed a button. "Now if he just doesn't take too much evasive action -- " They watched the screen in comparative silence. It takes quite a few minutes for a missile to go a thousand miles. The picture showed the interior of the skater, the gray rubber-doll figure, balloon head bobbing, gray arms active at the controls, the storm visible through the back windows. They IF stared at the comic figure that was no longer funny. Suddenly they were looking at a blank screen. No one spoke for a few moments, while the images flashed back and forth across light-years. "It was a good skater' said Forrest. "You'll have a dozen more," said Commander Roscoe. He turned to Howard. "Are you satisfied they're not Dents? You seemed to be so certain a while back that they were." "I'll vouch for them," said Howard. "It's not what people say that counts, it's what they do. You fired on the Dent, Warner. This could have been faked, of course, but it shook my conviction. Your cooperation in guiding the missile convinced me." Howard thought a while, then went on. "The Dents I killed in the skater shed were really Dents. They're some kind of primitive creatures underneath. So you must be the men they replaced. Anyway, it isn't that much of a risk, since now you have to stay on the island. Commander Roscoe tells me that the Marines will soon be landing. They'll bring doctors and a physical examination will tell all." Forrest felt a mental letdown, after the threat of impending destruction had been lifted. "Let's go up to observatory," he said to Harrison after Howard and Roscoe had signed off. As they rose into the upper room, brightness met them. It was now after four o'clock and Denebola was coming up into a spacious sky nearly free of clouds... "I guess the weatherbomb finally gave out," said Forrest. "There go the Dents' chances." "They may still come in force," said Harrison cautiously. "B.H. will take care of them. He can easily cover Nexus, now that the sky is clear." Harrison began tinkering with the instrument in the center of the room. "And now that the storm is over, I can use my telescope again. Have you ever seen the Sun from here? It's in Aquarius. You know they once had a saying, that when the Sun is in Aquarius -- " "There'll be rain," said Forrest. "Where did you hear that?" asked Harrison. "From you. From your double." "Damn! That guy stole my jokes too!" They laughed a little rustily. Forrest looked through the window at Old Nexus City. Soon it would be reactivated to accommodate military personnel. Marconi would be a busy place. Of course this would be only a small part of a huge operation, the expedition against the Dents. "You'll be sort of crowded here, Harrison. Do you mind?" "Well, I could go back to Earth -- but I like this weather." Forrest smiled. "So do I."  Interstellar adventure and a diplomatic coup make a story that nearly was not told... I HE Terran Ambassador to Quahogg," said the undersecretary solemnly, "has disappeared." Career Minister Magnan, seated opposite his chief across the wide, desk, cocked his narrow head in a look of alert incomprehension. "For a moment, sir," he said, "I thought you said the Terran Ambassador had -- ha-ha -- disappeared." "Of course I said he's disappeared," the undersecretary barked. "Vanished. Dropped from sight." "But that's impossible," Magnan said reasonably. "Are you calling me a liar -- or an idiot?" "Mr. Magnan is merely expressing his astonishment, Mr. Undersecretary," First Secretary Retief said in a calming tone. "Perhaps ifyou'd give us a little more background it would help lower his credulity threshold." "What background? Ambassador Wroth wax was dispatched a week ago at the head of a small mission accredited to the Supreme Figuration of Quahogg. The party reported landing on bare rock in a violent whirlwind, finding no signs of the local culture, no vegetation, not even a building or the ruins of one. The members took shelter in a cave after being threatened by immense carnivorous worms. At that point Wrothwax's absence was noted. Frankly, we're mystified as to what went awry." The undersecretary looked challengingly at Magnan. Magnan put a finger to his cheek. "You don't suppose the Quaswine -- " "Quahoggians, if you don't mind, Magnan. No, out of the question. His Supremacy was most cordial during our chats via telelink, though a trifle shy. Never showed his face, possibly underestimating our sophistication, imagining we might find his alien appearance off-putting. He welcomed the establishment of diplomatic relations, gave us landing coordinates, assured us he was laying on a gala welcoming celebration." The undersecretary handed over a rather blurry color photo of a vast, baroquely ornamented chamber. "The audience chamber in His Supremacy's palace -- splendid, eh, in a barbaric fashion? We lifted the image from the TL screen." Magnan gasped. "Stunning. Just look at all those swags." "Any exterior shots?" Retief inquired. "It seems climatic peculiarities render open-air photography somewhat impractical N on Quahogg."'  macy have to say about our man's disappearance?" Magnan wondered aloud. "Unfortunately our communications link is temporarily off the air -- due to atmospheric disturbances. However, my guess is that the mission missed its landing point and came to rest in a patch of desert rather than the magnificent city pictured there." "Well, I'm sure we'll all miss His Excellency," Magnan said, looking politely grieved. The experience must have been quite harrowing for them." "It still is," the undersecretary said grimly. "According to their last transmission before we lost contact, they're still holed up in the cave, subsisting on their representation rations." "Six days on domestic champagne and mummified hors d'oeuvres?" "these are the hazards a diplomat faces in the field," the undersecretary said sternly. "The loss of Ambassador Wrothwax is a grave blow to the corps," Magnan said. "I wonder who could possibly fill his slot in the Table of Organization." He pinched his lower lip and gazed ceilingward. "Actually, Magnan, your name has been mentioned." "What, me, sir? To be promoted to career ambassador? I really don't deserve -- " "That's what we thought. That's why we're merely naming you as charge d affaires until Wrothwax is found." "CAarg?" Magnan shifted in his chair. "At Quahogg? My feeling, sir, is why send good men after bad -- not that I mean to imply anything, of course -- " "Someone has to go in there and find Wrothwax, Magnan. We can't just drop an ambassador from the records as if he were so much broken crockery." "No doubt, sir. I was just thinking of this condition of mine. My doctor says it's the most unusual case of aggravated diplomat's elbow he's ever encountered -- " "See here, Magnan -- if you have any reservations about this assignment -- any reservations at all -- I'm sure your resignation will be philosophically accepted." "Oh, no -- I couldn't be more enthusiastic. Why, who needs vegetation? It just requires a lot of mowing and trimming and I've always loved all sorts of creepy, crawly, creatures. Ah -- you did say the party was chased by giant worms?"  "Forty-footers. There seem to be a couple of other life forms as well, b-# (Par #c) Epithets, Unflattering, Use of. The terms Deosseomolluscoid, Vermiformoidy and Megadeosseomollus spectively) are preferred in all official contexts. referred to by the landing party as, let me see, oh yes: slugs, and super-slugs. According to the report they're limbless, featureless, boneless, without sensory organs and of the approximate shape and consistency of bagged oatmeal -- cooked." "Cooked?" "I understand they have hooks on their undersides to help them hang on when the breeze gets over a hundred and ninety knots," the undersecretary amplified. A Undersecretary," Magnan said brightly. "Why don't we just skip on past Quahogg and. try our luck elsewhere, say in a nice, comfortable planet inhabited by nothing more ferocious than a few colorful lichens?" "Don't talk nonsense, Magnan. Quahogg happens to be the sole planet of the Verman system, which lies squarely athwart the Groaci direction of creep into Terran spheres of influence. It should be perfectly plain to you that we must get a foothold on Quahogg before those rascals steal a march on us." "Maybe they'll just go around Quahogg." "What -- and lose points? Don't be naive, Magnan. You know how important points are to the Groaci." "I've got it, sir. Why don't we pretend to be big-hearted and just let them have it?" "Then wed lose points. Besides, His Supremacy is something of an unknown quantity -- we don't know what the beggar's up to." The undersecretary frowned. "I'll be candid with you: there seems to be some possibility that he has imperialistic ambitions. Wroth wax went in with a full Mark XL Undercover kit, and instructions to poke about. From the promptness with which he vanished, I suspect His Supremacy wasn't fooled even for a moment." "About that resignation," Magnan said thoughtfully. "Would I be able to get a lump-sum settlement from the Retirement Fund?" "Negative!" the Undersecretary barked. "Look here, Magnan, this could be a millstone in your career. A milestone, that is to say." Magnan said, "How true. What a pity I never learned the language -- " "Eh? According to your file you brain-taped both Sluggish and Worman back when you were angling for the assignment." "Ah -- unfortunately I only mastered Old Low Worman, an obscure dialect -- " "Bah, Magnan. You're hedging. I want you to go in there and come out covered with glory. Do you understand?" "But -- what about this Supreme IF II Figuration? How do I find him among all these -- these oversized annelids?" "That's your problem, Magnan. Now, you and Retief had better step smartjy. The personnel ferry lifts in less than six hours and you will be aboard." "I say, sir," Magnan offered, "I don't suppose you'd like to send a couple of gunboats in ahead of us to -- uh -- sort of worm the place a trifle?" "Nonsense, your job is to find out what happened to Wroth wax, not to become entangled with the wild life." The undersecretary fixed the new appointees with a penetrating eye. "We're counting bn you, gentlemen. And remember the corps motto: come back with your briefcases -- or on them!" In the corridor Magnan looked despairingly at Retief. "It simply doesn't pay to be outstanding," he mourned. "My reward for years of dazzling efficiency -- exile to a worm ranch." "Cheer up," Retief consoled him. "I'm sure you'll find the experience exhilarating -- once you get the hang of gripping bare rock while conducting a high-level negotiation with deaf mutes." "There's one consolation," Magnan said, perking up a little. "As charge , I'll rate a salute of seventeen and a half guns." "Impressive," Retief said. "Let's hope they're not aimed in our direction." aboard the corps' ferry, Circumspect , the intercom crackled and spoke. "Better get set, Retief," a casual voice said. "We'll be hitting atmosphere in a couple of minutes -- and I do mean hitting. If you see Nervous Nellie, pass the word. His hutch doesn't answer." "Nellie?" Magnan frowned. "Is there another passenger aboard?" "Just a little personal code the captain likes to use," Retief clarified. "I think it's time to strap into the drop-capsule." "I'm all a-twitter," Magnan said as he and Retief made their way along the narrow access shaft to the tiny compartment in which they would descend to the surface. "To think that I'll soon be presenting my credentials to His Supreme Figuration -- " "A solemn moment, Mr. Magnan." "Garb-wise, I'm prescribing full Late Midafternoon Top Formal cutaways, with chrome-plated dickeys, silver lace cuff-cascades, plus medals and orders. First impressions are important, I always say." "I'd suggest you amend that to ' read full environmental suits, plus deflector fields and traction boots," Retief said. He waved a hand at the small screen on which a cloud-mottled planetary surfacewas slowly swelling. "There seem to be a dozen or so hurricanes, typhoons and tornadoes blowing simultaneously down there at the moment." Magnan stared at the view in dismay. "We're supposed to land in Aar?" "Actually, this is almost a lull, by Quahoggian standards." "You speak as though you knew it would be like this." "The post report the preliminary survey team compiled mentioned a certain amount of turbulence in the atmosphere." "Why didn't you warn me? I could have wriggled out -- I mean, my peculiar qualifications could jaunt doing a tourist facility survey on Beachromp, on full per diem allowances." "Pon't tell me that a campaigner of your experience forgot to do his research?" "Of course not. How would I have known about the seventeen and a half guns?" "We're in for a bumpy ride," Retief, said. "Maybe you'd better not try to land all the booze you had loaded in the cargo well." "Medical supplies," Magnan said crisply. "As you know, I disapprove of stimulants except in emergencies." "I suppose the fellows in the cave could use a snort, at that." "Um. Foolish of them to have landed off-target." "That part puzzles me," Retief said. "The controls in these landing bugs are pre-set, you know." "Possibly some malfunction," Magnan said absently. "Now, I'll want you to observe my technique, Retief. As chief of mission. I'll be moving in the highest level of the local society, hobnobbing with bigwings, attending a gay round of routs and balls. Tedious, of course, but one must accept these trifling inconveniences as part of the burden of leadership." "What about finding the missing ambassador? Will you be handling that before or after the gay round -- I mean the trifling inconveniences?" "Frankly, Retief," Magnan said in a confidential tone, "L imagine we'll find His Excellency holed up in the native quarter with a pair of local houris. We'll hush up the affair, as is usual in such cases, and -- " "Ready for drop," the captain's voice rasped in the diplomats' earphones. "Happy landings, gents -- and look out for falling cargo." With a lurch, as though kicked by a giant boot, the capsule leaped free of the mother ship and arrowed down through the murky atmosphere of Quahogg. VJ Magnan said, over the shriek of the wind, peering out through the armor-glass panel set IF in the steel bulkhead of the tiny landing pod, moments after the cushioned impact on the surface. "There's nothing out there but a lot of worn-down stone and flying dust, unless you want to count those ugly-looking black clouds scudding overhead. What's happened to the palace of His Supreme Figuration?" "The welcoming committee seems to be late, too." "Good lord -- you don't suppose we blundered, coordinate-wise, and missed the drop area, like that last pack of nitwits?" "If so, we missed it the same distance they did. Look over there." Magnan exclaimed sharply. just like ours!" "Except that the wind has peeled most of the plating off it," Retief agreed. "Well, let's get started. We don't want to keep His Supremacy waiting." Magnan assumed a determined expression. "I see we're up against some unexpected obstacles," he said firmly. "However, a diplomat's primary skill is adaptability." "How true. What do you plan to do?" "Resign, effective last Tuesday, pension or no. Just thumb that intercom and tell the captain to pick me up at once, will you?' v "One-way link, Mr. Magnan, remember? I'm afraid we're stuck." "You mean -- " Retief nodded. "We might as well disembark and find out if that report of a forty-foot worm was an exaggeration." Magnan groaned. "Maybe, if we're lucky, we can find the cave. I hope those gluttons haven't eaten all the antipasto." protective suits, the two diplomats cycled open the exit hatch. At once a violent blast of air seized them, spun them along across a stretch of eroded stone to lodge them with a crashing impact against a low stony ridge. "So far so good," Retief said. "At least the weather reports were accurate." "A scant consolation for being marooned in a maelstrom -- " "Still, you only have to hold the job down for thirty days to qualify for full chief-of-mission pay." "If I live that long." "Our first move had better be to plant a tracer beam to mark ground zero before they dump any more welcomees off-target." "Leaving clues to ease the burden of my successor interests me far less than preserving a whole skin," Magnan snapped. "I mean Ambassador Wrothwax's skin, of course," he added quickly. "Gracious, I'm only too glad to hurl myself to destruction if it will help implement corps policy." "That's all right, my suit recorder's not on," Retief said. "And Wrothwax will be thinking of your skin -- in strips -- if you hurl yourself to destruction before you've found him." Magnan, only dimly visible to Retief from six feet away, struggled to a sitting position. At that precise moment there was a descending whistle, followed by a resounding thump a few yards distant in the gloom. "That would be your medical supplies, right on schedule," Retief said. He got to his feet, forced his way forward into the gale. "That's a lot of medicine, Mr. Magnan," he said admiringly. "How did you sneak it past Supply Control?" "I hope the bottles aren't broken." "No bottles," Retief said. "Steel drums, fifty-five-gallon size. Lots of 'em." Assisted by his suit's servoboosters, Magnan waded forward to peer at the heaped containers deposited on the rock. Lettering on their sides proclaimed: "You had me fooled," Retief said. "I thought you were just kidding about the medical kit." "Who, I?" Magnan said weakly. "Would I jest about a subject so essential to diplomacy?" "Well, we're prepared for a variety of emergencies," Retief observed. "And I think I see the first one coming now." Magnan looked in the direction Retief was pointing. From the swirling cloud of windborne dust came a two-ton mass of leathery, duncolored gelatin, mist-shrouded, humping itself relentlessly toward the Terrans on blunt pseudopodia. I exaggerating," Magnan babbled, backing away. "It's hardly more than eight feet long, or possibly twelve -- and it's not even a worm. It's more of a slug and -- " "Let's hope it's a superslug, not, I foresee a dim future for Terry-Quahogg relations." Retief stepped aside as a long, tentacle-like member formed itself at the fore end of the amorphous creature and groped toward him. Thwarted, it shifted direction, snatched at Magnan, who leaped away, was caught by the wind and bowled along head over heels into the murk. Retief went after him, brought him down with a flying tackle at the edge of a precipitous gully. For a moment the two suited figures teetered at the lip of the ravine; then a vicious gust caught them, tumbled them over. Giant hammer-blows slammed at Retief through his protective suit as he careened downIF ward, bouncing from ledge to ledge to fetch up hard at the bottom. A moment later Magnan came skidding down, helmetfirst, amid a clatter of dislodged stones. Retief caught him by the shoulders, dragged him back into the meager shelter of the overhanging lip of a wind-carved cavern. "Well, thank goodness you're here at last," a petulant voice chirped in his earphones. "We're almost out of anchovies!" #(#)UT this is insane," the islight, paunchy diplomat, shivering in a use-stained environment suit repeated for the fourth time in three minutes. "It's obvious we're the victims of some grotesque hoax -- -" "Possibly if you'd seen fit to confide a trifle more detail in your report, Thrashwelt, we'd all have been spared no little inconvenience," Magnan said acidly, holding out his glass. "I did, Mr. Magnan, I assure Sector, with particular emphasis on my allergy problem. And instead of a rescue team, they send us two more thirsts to quench -- not that you're not welcome, of course," he added with a strained smile as he poured pink champagne. "We're down to the 'fortyfour -- very poor year. Miserable bouquet and an apalling traveler." The diplomats were seated on spindly folding chairs grouped around a collapsible table with integral lace napery and bud vase, crowded with dainty glasses, crumb-covered plates, open tins and crumpled paper napkins. In one corner of the cave were heaped a pile of ornately labeled empties, garnished with zwieback crusts, corks and olive pits. "Still, things could be worse," a silvery-haired press attache contri buted in a tone of half-hearted optimism. "I recall hearing of a Cultural Mission marooned in the Belt for three weeks with nothing but a regulation multidemoninational chapel kit to sustain them. Twenty-one days on Mogen David and sacrificial wafers." He wagged his head in commiseration as the little group observed a moment of sympathetic silence. "If only we could find the palace of His Supremacy," Magnan said dolefully. "Suppose we sent out search parties in various directions to comb the countryside." "No use," Colonel Wince, the military attache, stated solemnly. "Already done it. Boxed the compass. Nothing. Bare rock, slugs, drifted dust, worms, ravines, superslugs. Range of worn-down mountains in the distance. Filthy great clouds, dust up the kazoo -- " "Now, now no defeatism, Colonel," Magnan wagged a finger. "We're just not looking in the right places. Think, everyone. Where haven't we looked?" "Up the kazoon, I say," the colonel muttered. "Give a man an enemy he can come to grips with, not this confounded smog bank inhabited by invertebrate appetites." "With the exception of His Excellency the Ambassador, all personnel seem to be present or accounted for," Retief said. "What makes you think the wild life is carnivorous?" "Why, the instant they sight us they come charging down, figurative jaws agape," Thrashwelt said indignantly. "I didn't see any eyes," Retief said. "How do they sight us?" "Suppose we leave the zoological musings until later, Retief," Magnan said sharply. "At the moment the problem is how to disinsinuate ourselves from this dismal fiasco without furthur abrasions to hides, egos and effectiveness reports. Now, I propose that we make one more try via telelink, hoping for a break in the weather -- " He broke off as the dim light filtering around the curve of the grotto faded suddenly to near total darkness in which the folding emergency chandelier suspended from a convenient stalagtite shed a wan glow on anxious faces. "What in the world -- " "It's them," Thrashwelt gibbered, leaping up. "They're making another try -- " "Into the back room, men," Colonel Wince barked. "Man the barricades." Magnan yelped, "Here -- what's going on?" "Every so often one of those great horrid monsters comes poking and probing in here," a grasshoppery little clerk said breathlessly. "They squoosh themselves out thin and come groping in the dark, feeling for victims -- " He dashed away, scrambling through the narrow opening into the next cavern. Looking in the direction from which the attack was expected, Retief saw a bulge of darkness intrude into the chamber; a footthick finger patted the walls and floor like a hand feeling inside a pocket. "Come along, Retief," Magnan cried. "Do you want to be crushed to mincemeat?" "It seems to be feeling its way rather delicately," Retief pointed out. "As if it were being careful nqt to break anything." "Maybe it just doesn't like pate," Magnan croaked, backing away. "Retief -- look out!" The leathery probe suddenly elongated, thinned, shot out to within a foot of Retief 's knee. "Easy, Mr. Magnan," he called, standing fast. "The suit will take plenty of strain." Gingerly the pseudopod advanced, hovered, then, with a soft smacking sound plastered itself IF snugly against Retiefs left shin. "At last, a contact!" a mellow voice boomed inside Retiefs brain. "We were beginning to think you fellows didn't want to talk." telepathic inductance," Retief said. "He has to make physical contact to transmit." "Precisely," the soundless voice agreed. "By the way, my name is Sloonge, Minister of Internal Affairs to his Supreme Figuration. Ever since the arrival of Ambassador Wrothwax, His Supremacy has been anxious to meet the remainder of the mission." Retief passed the message along. "Then Wrothwax reached him after all," Magnan blurted. "Indeed, yes," Sloonge confirmed. "He was perceptive enough to lie down when the others departed so precipitously. He wriggled a bit when I greeted him, but as soon as he completed his ceremonial arrival song I was able to convey His Supremacy's invitation. At least I assume it was a ceremonial arrival song -- a series of strident yelps in the audible range?" "We diplomats frequently burst into yelps on emotional occasions," Retief assured the alien. "I take it after the ceremonies His Excellency went along to meet His Supremacy?" "Quite so. I hope you'll also favor him with a visit." "Retief -- what's going on?" Magnan demanded. "Why is it fingering your knee?" "It seems Wrothwax fell down and perforce enjoyed a nice chat with Minister Sloonge here, who conducted him to an audience with his boss. We're invited to join the party." "Do you suppose it's safe?" "It's what we came for." "True," Magnan conceded. "But Retief -- do you suppose His Supremacy is of the same species as this, er Megadeosseomolluscoid?" "I heard, I heard." Sloonge transmitted a chuckle-equivalent. "His Supremacy, a superslug? That's quite amusing, actually. His Supremacy will enjoy the jape. And now, shall we be going?" "Very well. Just a moment while I summon my staff." Magnan went to the rear of the cave and hallooed. The response was a strident sibilant. "Quietly -- you'll tip off our hidaway -- " in Thrashwelt's voice. "You presume to shush your immediate supervisor?" Magnan said sharply. "Come out at once and join my retinue. We're paying a call on His Supremacy." "Sorry, sir. My job description doesn't say a thing about exotic forms of suicide." "What's this?" Magnan choked. "Mutiny? Cowardice in the social arena?" "Concern for corps property," Thrashwelt corrected. "I wouldn't want to lose a valuable environmental suit containing an expensively trained bureaucrat, namely myself." "Very well," Magnan said coolly, "I suggest you while away the time until your arrest by composing a letter of resignation."' "Better composing than decomposing," Thrashwelt said tartly. "Come, Retief. Since you were the only one cool-headed enough to join me in my decision to outface the monster well carry on unaided." With their helmets in place and servos creaking, they followed the giant courtier out into the gale. stroll in the open air to make one appreciate a little shelter," Sloonge commented as the little party slogged ahead, the two diplomats sheltered in the lee of their guide, who slithered along beside them like a bus molded in gray jello. Communication was maintained via a pair of strap-shaped extrusions, which the Terrans gripped. "Curious," Magnan said, bucking the head-wind. U I see no signs whatever of civilization -- no roads, fences or structures of any sort." "Oh, erecting anything out here on the tundra would be a waste of time," Sloonge commented. "This is just a pleasant zephyr, of course -- but when the wind starts to blow in earnest, it's a different matter." "Underground shelters?" Magnan inquired. "What -- caverns large enough to shelter the entire population -- cut into solid rock?" Sloonge sounded surprised. "Quite beyond the,, scope of our technology. I'm afraid." The party topped a rise. Through a momentary break in the pall of rolling dust a featureless plain was visible, stretching to a row of humpbacked hills. "Still nothing," Magnan complained, his voice barely audible over the keening of the wind. "How much farther are we expected to wade through this Niagara of emery dust?" "Not far," Sloonge said. "We're almost there." "I suppose the palace is nestled in the hills," Magnan muttered doubtfully as they forged ahead. Ten minutes later, after mounting a slope of drifted dust in the lee of a rounded promontory they reached a sheltered furrow in the lumpy ground. "Ah, here we are," Sloonge telepathed, angling toward a lightless fold in the landscape. "I still don't see anything," Magnan said. IF "We Quahoggians don't lavish much .effort on externals," Sloonge explained. "Why bother, when the sand would flay a coat of paint off in twelve seconds by the clock?" The giant creature extended an improvised digit the size of a prize-winning watermelon to thumb a spot on the featureless gray wall. A crack appeared, wide passage. "Breath-taking," Magnan gasped as they stepped inside the rose-colored passage. The howl of the wind died as the entry closed behind them, to be replaced by the soothing strains of a Strauss waltz; liveried amoeboids of medium size sprang forward to attend the newcomers. "You may remove your helmets, gentlemen," Sloonge announced. "You'll find the air here tailored to your specifications, as suggested by Ambassador Wrothwax."   lieve I've ever seen anything so lavish in scale and decor," Magnan said as they proceeded along a lofty hall paved in red carpeting and draped in irridescent scarlet silk, shot through with bluish traceries. "No wonder they don't bother fancying up the externals with all this in store." "I'm exceedingly pleased you find the surroundings acceptable," a deep, soundless voice seemed to boom through Retief's brain. "Good lord! What was that?" Magnan quavered. "Gentlemen, permit me to introduce His Supreme Figuration," Sloonge spoke up smoothly. "Your Supremacy, the newly arrived members of the Terran delegation." "A pleasure," the vast voice rumbled. "Sloonge will show you to your quarters. Just ask for whatever you'd like. As for myself, I'll have to ask you to excuse me for the present. A touch of dyspepsia, I fear." Magnan was fingering his skull as if exploring for cracks. "I understood you to say contact was necessary!" he hissed at Sloonge. "How is it we can hear His Supremacy when he's not even here?" "Not here? Surely you jest, Magnan," Sloonge said jovially. "Of course he's here." Magnan looked around. "Where?" "Don't you know where you are?" Sloonge's mental tone was somewhat amused. "Of course -- we're inside His Supremacy's palace -- " "Close," Retief said. "But I think 'inside His Supremacy' woiifd be closer; about fifty yards along the pharynx, on the threshold of the cardiac orifice, to be pre-, cise." #'VfOU -- don't mean we've Xbeen eaten alive?" "Eaten?" Sloonge laughed a hearty telepathic laugh. "My dear sir, you'd hardly constitute for a crumb for His Supremacy, even if he were capable of subsisting on carbon compounds." "Then -- what -- " "I think I'm beginning to get the idea, Mr. Magnan," Retief said. "The external environment here on Quahogg made development in that direction pretty difficult; so they turned to the inner man, so to speak." "Well put, Retief," Sloonge said. "I think you'll find we live very well here under the protection of His Supremacy "But -- inside a living creature? It's fantastic!" "As I understand human physiology, you maintain a sizable internal population of your own," Sloonge said somewhat tartly. "Yes -- but those are merely intestinal parasites. We diplomats are a different type of parasite entirely -- " "I hope, sir," Sloonge said with a noticable chill in his tone, "that you harbor no groundless prejudice toward honest intestinal fauna?" "Gracious, no," Magnan said hastily. "Actually, I couldn't get along without them." "To be sure. Well, then, may I show you around? Ahead are the fundus and pylorus; on my left, the arcade leading to the pancreas and spleen; I believe we're having a modest chamber-music concert there this evening. There'll be a few tables of bridge in the jejunum and roulette in the ileum for the more adventurous souls." "Retief, it's amazing," Magnan murmured as they proceeded. "The hangings, the carpeting, the furnishings -- they're magnificent. Whoever would have thought tripe could be so glamorous?" "Your quarters; gentlemen," Sloonge announced, ushering them through an arched opening into an anteroom done in a rather sour yellow. "Unfortunately the colors are a bit liverish at the moment, but the decor will improve as soon as His Supremacy is feeling better." Sloonge opened wide doors on a spacious room complete with flowery wallpaper, luxurious beds, pictures on the walls, capacious closets containing complete wardrobes, and an adjoining chamber a-twinkle with ceramics and bright metal fittings. Magnan thumped the bed; the mattress seemed to be a highquality inner-spring; the sheets were of pink silk, the blanket a lightweight violet wool. "Am I to understand His Supremacy provides all this himself?" "Why not? Once complete control of the metabolic processes is established, the rest is easy. After all, silk, wool, leather, ivory -- are IF all animal products. His Supremacy simply manufactures them in the required sizes and shapes. He can, of course, duplicate any artifact." "Great heavens, Retief -- there are even nymphs disporting themselves on the shower curtain," Magnan marveled. "How in the world do they -- I mean -- does he do it?" "It's really quite simple," Sloonge said. "Over the ages you Terrans have learned to manipulate externals; His Supremacy has merely concentrated on the internal environment." "Marvelous. I can't wait to see the rest." "A word of caution," Sloonge said. "Certain areas are off-limits to guests for reasons of internal security. You'd find conditions beyond the pyloric orifice most uncomfortable -- and I'd recommend avoiding the trachea and bronchial passages. Some of our people like to go slumming in the quaint little bronchioles over that way, but they run the risk of having some unsavory character jump out of the dark alveolus at them. Kindly limit your explorations to the upper tract." Magnan looked suddenly thoughtful. "Ah -- what happens when His Supremacy has his dinner?" suppose you're picturing yourself swept downstream by a sudden avalance of appetizers, eh, Magnan? Have no fear. The living quarters have been evolved as a quite separate complex in the anterior wall of the gut, well out of traffic. In any event, His Supremacy only ingests at intervals of several centuries. Just between us," he added, "he sometimes nibbles between meals, thus his present indisposition, no doubt. However, gluttony is its own punishment, as I've so often reminded him." "Can't he hear you?" Magnan inquired nervously, glancing at the ceiling. "His Supremacy would never think of eavesdropping," Sloonge said. "And if he did, he'd soon be looking for a new staff. We treasure our privacy." "What part do we parasites play in the internal economy?" Retief asked. "Why, we man posts in every department from liver to lights. We keep tabs on the basal metabolism, monitor gland secretions, control the pH, take care of custodial services, oh, a host of items. Without us. His Supremacy would soon grind to a halt, believe me. "He seems so self-sufficient -- with your help, of course -- that I'm a little surprised he even consented to receive a diplomatic mission." "Frankly, His Supremacy is thinking of emigrating," Sloonge said. "Emigrating? Why?" "Overpopulation." "Really? Just what is the population -- in terms of His Supremacy's species, that is?" "One," Sloonge said. "But he's a hearty eater. At the present rate of consumption, Quahogg will be entirely consumed in another two millennia." "Ah -- I take it you mean the food supply will be consumed?" Magnan queried. "A distinction without a difference, my dear Magnan. His Supremacy eats rock." Magnan smiled blandly. "Still -- I should imagineit would require a very long time indeed for a single individual to comsume an entire planet with a bulk somewhat in excess #f that of Terra." "Not when he's a hundred miles long," Sloonge said succinctly. "And doubles in size after each meal. Now, no doubt you'll want to get out of those bulky suits and freshen up. There'll be a reception in your honor in half an hour in the duodenum." "I hope," Magnan said as their host withdrew, "you noted how skillfully I drew him out, Retief. Why, he was practically babbling his life secrets to me." "You got everything except the dinner menu," Retief said admiringly. "And of course the wherabouts of Ambassador Wroth wax." "Doubtless we'll be accepting His Excellency's congratulations in person shortly," Magnan said as he opened the closet door. He clucjced and lifted out a scarletand-gold creation, heavy with braid, loops, knots, buttons, lapels, aiglettes and epaulettes. "Amazing," he said. "Regulation Corps Late Early Evening hemi-demi-semi-informals -- and they even got the decorations right. Copied from Ambassador Wrothwax's, no doubt." "I didn't know you had a figleaf cluster to your Doublecross of the Order of St Ignatz," Retief com-' mented. "Congratulations, Mr. Magnan. That's only awarded for hair-splitting at the conference table above and beyond the call of protocol, as I recall." "I was able to do a trifling service for a certain prince, who proved not ungrateful," Magnan said modestly. "I held out for sixlegged bar stools and a hundredfoot, mink-lined, double-decker pool table. Since His Highness' uncle was in the custom furnishings line, the family turned a tidy profit on the affair." "May I?" Retief examined the sparkling gold-and-enamel decoration closely. He pressed a hidden catch and the central jewel sprang open, revealing a tiny compartment filled with a fine brown powder. IF "Interesting," Retief said. "His Supremacy must scan the items he duplicates molecule by molecule, including any Groaci allergy dust that's incidentally included." "Heavens, close it at once, Retief! One grain of that and my sinuses will burst into flame!" "I'd like to borrow this, Mr. Magnan." "Take it and welcome!" "To fill the gap. I'll trade you my plastic-and-diamond Sunburst for a perfect Staff Meeting attendance record." "You made every meeting?" Magnan asked as he switched medals. "Nope, missed them all." "One day, Retief, you're going to miss something important that way," Magnan said sharply. "Perhaps, Mr. Magnan. But I still like the odds." IV soned Quahoggians thronged the gaudily decorated duodenum when the Terrans arrived. For the occasion, their hosts had squeezed themselves into vaguely humanoid shapes so as to fit into variations of Terran diplomatic garb. Soft music oozed from the walls; silent-pseudopoded servitors passed among the guests with trays of glasses. Sloonge came forward to meet them, unrecognizable in a vast purple suit which threatened to burst at every seam. "Ah, there you are." He gripped his guests' hands with large, jellysoft members extruded for the purpose. "Well, how do you like our little gathering? Rather gay, eh?" "It's so -- so silent," Magnan said. "A whole room full of people and not a word being said." "Ah, an oversight, easily corrected. We'll whip up some vocal chords in a trice." Sloonge's imitation eyes -- large pale-violet spots on the blob he used for a head -- blurred and ran together as he concentrated silently. "I've seen noses running," Magnan whispered to Retief as that member slowly flowed out across the Quahoggan's face. "But not like that" From a nearby group, a babble of conversation started up, at a barely sub-intelligible level. Others joined in; in half a minute, a high-pitched roar filled the great chamber like a Niagara of Smalltalk. "Ah, that's more like it, eh?" Sloonge verbalized in a voice like boiling tar. "Nothing like a few tribal background noises to put a being at ease, I always say." "Remarkable," Magnan said, accepting a proffered cocktail. "By the way, I haven't yet laid eyes on Ambassador Wrothwax." He craned his neck to see over the crowd; noticing what he was doing, the crowd instantly shrank by a head -- in many cases, literally. "And now," Sloonge said hurriedly, "may I present a number of His Supremacy's court? They're thrilled at the prospect of meeting you and -- " "Delighted," Magnan said. "By the way -- where is His Excellency?" "Where is he, you say?" Sloonge repeated. "Yes, well, as to that -- to be perfectly candid -- not that I haven't been perfectly candid all along -- but what I mean is, now I'm going to be even more candid -- " "Yes?" "Candidly, as I say -- no one seems to know." "You mean -- he stepped out and didn't leave word?" "Worse than that, Mr. Magnan. He was last seen two days ago. He's gone -- vanished!" "What, again?" Magnan's voice broke. "But -- look here, you can't just go around losing Terran Ambassadors." "Please -- not so loud. His Supremacy doesn't yet know." Magnan drew himself up stiffly. "Then, perhaps it's time to notify him." "Impossible. It would throw him into a case of the sulks -- do you know what that means?" ' "As it happens,  do not." porary arms. "He turns blue; the walls get clammy; utilities are shot to hell and the food -- " The minister shuddered, an effect like a ripple in a bathtub full of guava jelly. "No, no far better we simply carry on quietly; he'll never know the difference." "Impossible, Mr. Minister," Magnan said firmly. "I must request the use of your facilities to notify the undersecretary at once." "Unfortunately," Sloonge said, "that will not be possible." "I wondered at the rather curious failure of communications due to a storm which, it now appears, is actually a spell of mild weather," Magnan snapped. "Very well; my associate and I shall be forced to adopt sterner measures." "Why not accept the situation, gentlemen? His Excellency is missing, alas. But that's no reason we shouldn't continue on amicable terms -- " "We are leaving," Magnan said, "at once." "Au contraire" Sloonge said. He had absent-mindedly slumped halfway back to his normal proportions and now resembled a gaudily dressed two-armed giant squid. "You mustn't think of venturing forth in such weather." "Is that a threat?" Magnan choked. "By no means, Mr. Magnan. A simple statement of fact. For you to leave now might lead to all manIF ner of complications interplanetaryaccord wise -- especially if you rushed back to your superiors with the report that His Supremacy has misplaced an Ambassador. Ergo -- you remain. Now, let us be happy, let us be gay. You may as well; unless His Excellency turns up, you'll spend the rest of your natural lives here."Magnan said as soon as Sloonge had flowed and wobbled out of earshot. "How could Wroth wax have vanished without leaving a trace? He had full XL gear, dye markers, radio-active tracers, gamma-ray projectors, supersonic and infrared signal projectors -- everything." "Unless Sloonge can lie telepathically, he's just as puzzled as we are," Retief said. Magnan mopped at his forehead with a scented tissue. "I must be running a fever. I wonder how His Supremacy is at synthesizing antibiotics?" "It's not a fever," Retief said. "It's getting warm in here. Must be close to ninety." All around, the restive crowd -- which had diplomatically kept its distance since the exchange with Sloonge -- was showing signs of distress, shedding bulky costumes as their quasi-human forms wavered and slumped. "You don't suppose this is a scheme for getting rid of us by cooking us to death?" Magnan panted, fanning himself with a hand. "They don't seem to like it any better than we do," Retief pointed out. "They're spreading themselves thin for maximum radiating surface." Sloonge pushed through the increasingly amorphous crowd; only the big blue eyes remained of the courtesy shape he had assumed. Two small, leathery-looking Quahoggans were at his heels. "What's going on here, Sloonge?" Magnan demanded before the official could speak. "The place is like a hot-house!" "What's going on is that the temperature is zooming toward a record high," Sloonge replied somewhat hysterically. "His Supremacy has taken a turn for the worse: he's running a fever -- and if a miracle doesn't happen we'll all be dead by morning!" Magnan grabbed Retief 's arm. "We've got to get out of here at once." "Nothing has changed," Sloonge spoke up quickly. "I still can't permit you to leave." He motioned with a formless arm to his enforcers. "Take them to their quarters," he ordered in a blurry thought wave. "Leave that they don't see. I mean see that they don't see. I mean see that they don't leave. Or is that what I mean -- " # "Retief," Magnan said in a stage whisper, "you take the one on the left and the one on the right -- and rilgo for help." One of the small beings produced a chrome-plated power gun, identical with Terran Navy issue. "Better play it smart, big boy," he telepathed. "I been wanting to see how this worked." Terrans made their way across the wide floor -- which was now an unflattering shade of puce and tended to ripple underfoot -- and along the somewhat shrunken corridor to their quarters. The wallpaper, formerly a gay pattern of daffodils on a field vert, was now a rancid orange against faded olive drab. The shine was gone from the fixtures. The heat was intense. "Even the mattress sags," Magnan said. "Good lord, Retief, are we doomed to spend our remaining hours in a third-rate hotel room?" Retief was watching the two guards, whose shapes were wavering like dying flames. He stepped in suddenly, plucked the gun from flaccid fingers which had sagged to a length of eighteen inches under the weight of the weapon. The former owner made a weak grab. "Don't try it," Retief advised. "It shoots fire. A short burst into th floor is guaranteed to give His Supremacy instant ulcers." "Why didn't you warn a fellow?" the Quahoggian said. "I might of shot at you, missed and gotten into a lot of trouble." "Before you go," Retief said, "where is the little round Terry who arrived last week?" "Beats me. I 'ain't seen him since -- " He caught himself, but the faint thought leaked through: since  caught him trying to sneak past post number eight-O-two . : . "Where's post eight-O-two?" "I'm not saying." The guard was in obvious distress from the heat; it was apparent that only will power kept his lumpy body from flowing out into a thin film. "Let's get outa here, Whump," his comrade proposed. "Maybe if we beat if out inta the exoderm we can cool off." "Yeah, but we got orders -- " "It's every phagocyte for himself." The first guard fled, closely followed by his partner. Magnan sniffled. "One encounters them everywhere nowadays -- " He broke off as Retief pocketed the gun and headed for the door. "Let's go hunt up Sloonge," Retief said. "Maybe now he'll be in a mood to negotiate." ster slumped, quivering, in a corner of the ilium like a truckload of 'pale liver on which two large eyes floated like broken blue eggs. # IF "What, still alive?" he telepathed weakly as he caught sight of the Terrans. "A pity, all this. Never intended it to end this way. His Supremacy is done for -- temperature up to a hundred and ten and rising. This is the end -- for all of us -- " "Maybe not," Retief said. "What's the quickest way out?" "No use. His Supremacy has slid into rigor vitalis; every sphincter's locked tight. We're trapped." "And you intend to just lie there supinely and let it happen?" Magnan yelped. "It's as good a place to lie supinely as any," Sloonge pointed out. "You say His Supremacy is doomed," Retief said. "Are you on the off-chance of saving him?" "What do you have in mind?" "Can you lead the way to the olfactory cavity?" "I suppose so -- but -- " "No time to talk now," Retief said. "Let's get going." Sloonge pulled himself together. "I suppose anything's worth a try. The olfactory cavity, you say? Not that it will do any good. You can't get out that way; nostrils are closed tight, as I said, and -- " His thoughts trailed off as he devoted total effort to wobbling across the now spotty-looking floor. Unconscious Quahoggians lay everywhere; the few who retained consciousness lay quivering, their color like unbaked dough. The party made its way along the deserted pharynx, turned left into the nasal passage, a poorly lighted corridor decorated with No Smoking signs and enlarged photos of glamorous nude bacteria. "Little -- cooler here," Sloonge managed. "But -- no difference in the end. Trapped. Sorry about this, gentlemen. Should have -- let you save yourselves -- " They emerged into a high-domed chamber almost filled with banks of leathery curtains which hung in rows, quivering faintly. "The olfactory membranes?" Retief asked. "Correct. As you see, everything's shut tight. Nothing can get through; dust-proof, wind-proof -- " "Unless we can persuade His Supremacy to open up," Retief said. "I tried," Sloonge said, collapsing into a rubbery heap. "But he's delirious. He thinks he's a mere grub again and is being roasted and dipped into molten chocolate for the exotic tidbits trade." service, no doubt," Magnan groaned. "Hurry up, Retief -- burn a hole through to the outer air before my bodily juices coagulate!" "Retief -- you wouldn't -- " Sloonge made a convulsive grab for the Terran, who stepped back out of range. "Not unless I have to." "You tricked me' Sloonge wailed. "Alas, that I should play a part in torturing His Supremacy in his last moments!" "Listen, Sloonge, I need your help," Retief said. "How far above ground level are we here?" "Mmm. About fifty feet, I should say. But -- " "Can you elongate to that length?" "Easily. But -- " "You'll need a solid anchor at this end. How about grabbing a few of those." He pointed to a stand of wrist-thick sensory spines lining the central aisle. "Why should I?" "Because if you don't ill have to burn our way out." "Well -- " Sloonge followed instructions, coiled himself like a pale fire-hose, gripping the support. "Lie flat and hang on, Mr. Magnan," Retief instructed his colleague. "What are you going to do?" "Trigger a reflex -- I hope." Retief said. "Hold your nose." He detached the borrowed medal from his chest, opened it and emptied the contents in a brownish cloud over the nearest sensitive membrane. The result was remarkable. The curtain-like tissue turned flaming red, twitched, writhed, sending the powder billowing about among the adjacent sensors, which in turn jerked and blushed. Retief dived for a position just above Magnan as, with a violent spasm, the nostril -- a forty-foot vertical slit at the far end of the room -- opened to admit a blaze of daylight and a great squall of cold air, snapping shut at once. "That's one 'ah,'" Retief called. Again the shudder, the quick intake, the snap shut. "Two." A third violent inhalation... "Sloonge -- get set!" The end wall split. "Go," Retief said. The aft end of the boa-shaped Quahoggian slithered quickly forward, out, down out of sight. "Come on!" Retief and Magnan dashed for daylight; without urging, Magnan gripped the legthick rope and slid down. Retief followed, was halfway to the windswept rock below when the thunderous choo! blasted forth like a quarry explosion; he fell the rest of the way amid coils of rubbery Interior Minister Sloonge.   groaned, slowly dragging himself back into his normal superslug form. "But to what end? With His Supremacy gone, we few survivors will be back to scratching at rocks for # a living. Think of overnight." "We're not through yet, Sloonge," Retief said. "Can you IF lead the way back to where you found us?" "Abandon His Supreme Figuration in his dying agonies? Look here, Retief, you said something about trying to save him -- " "That's right. I don't guarantee results, but at this stage it won't hurt to try desperate measures. Let's go." It took the little party half an hour to grope across the plain through the relentless wind to the abandoned landing pod and the heaped drums. At Retief's direction, Sloonge shaped himself' into a large, hollow bulb with a slim nozzle at one end. Retief uncapped half a dozen of the containers. "All right, Sloonge, load up," he directed. The bulky interior minister insterted his small end into the nearest drum, with a powerful muscular contraction siphoned out the contents. Quickly he repeated the performance with the other containers. After the forth he was swollen to a vast drum-tight bulk. "Retief," he telepathed faintly. "Are you sure you know what you're doing?" "I hope so. Let's get started back." It was a painful progress. Laden with the sloshing bulk cargo, Sloonge moved heavily, clumsily, crawling over each bump and ridge with telepathic groans and moans. At last the range of hills that was His Supremacy loomed out of the driven smog. "Now -- one last trick," Retief said. "You'll have to force an entry into the buccal cavity." "Impossible," Sloonge expostulated. "How can I open a hurricane-proof mouth?" "Just far enough to get a finger in," Retief urged. Sloonge dragged himself across to the sealed, fifty-foot wide eating mouth, probed fruitlessly at the sealed orifice. "I'll have to use a touch of the quirt," Retief said. "Get ready." He set the blaster at low heat, aimed it at the monstrous lip, and pressed the stud. For a moment, nothing happened; then the stonylooking hide twitched; for an instant an opening appeared. Sloonge plunged his syringe-tip through as the mouth clamped tight again. "That -- that smarts," he said. "Now what?" "Pump it in," Retief said. "Then we'll just stand back and wait." With a powerful contraction of his versatile body, Sloonge squirted two hundred and twenty gallons of high-grade medicinal mineral oil into the alimentary canal of his mother country. ly decorated ballroom. Sloonge, impeccable in , a tentsized, canary-yellow outfit on which the Order of the Purple Kidney -- newly awarded for services to the Fatherland -- sparkled, waved genially at the Terran Mission as it was announced. "Ah, there, Mr. Ambassador." He hurried to offer impromptu hands to all members of the delegation simultaneously. "You're looking quite your old self again after your ordeal." "Ordeal? What ordeal?" Wrothwax boomed, deftly lifting a glass from a passing tray. "Nonsense, my boy. I had a capital time exploring the palace catacombs." He snared a slab of pate from another tray. "I must confess I did get a trifle weary of maraschino cherries; had no rations but my emergency cocktail kit, you understand." "Oh? I had an idea you might have been, er, lost." "Nothing in it, Sloonge. Jolly interesting place, the catacombs. I was just on the point of deciphering a number of fascinating inscriptions when the earthquake occurred." "You wouldn't have been snooping just a tiny bit?" Sloonge inquired archly, wagging a limp cucumber-sized finger at the Terran envoy. "Scholarly research, my boy, nothing more." Wrothwax reassured his host, signaling for a refill. "Pity to abandon my finds, but I felt I should rush back and see to the safety of my staff." "In this case," Magnan murmurred, "I'm sure excretion was the better part of valor." "Eh?" Wrothwax said. "For a moment I thought you said -- but never mind. Slip of the tongue, eh?" "No doubt." "Quite. Pity I never got to meet His Supremacy, Sloonge -- but I'm sure you and I can come to an agreement regarding the extensive deposits of pure corundumrubies and emeralds to you, gentlemen -- among which I found myself after the avalanche. Now, I had in mind a barter arrangement under which I found myself after the avalanche. Now, I had in mind a barter arrangement under which Corps bottoms haul in Groaci sand, for which you say you have a need, and take away these troublesome gems -- waste-products, I believe you called them..." The Ambassador and the minister strolled off, deep in negotiation. Magnan commented, "Never a word of gratitude to me for arranging his evacuation from the danger zone." "Still, for once a Terry Ambassador got inside the problem," Retief said. "And as a result of my efforts -- with your assistance, of course, Retief -- emerged covered with, if not glory, rubies and emeralds." "And smelling like a rose," Retief agreed.  IF It was not his time, place or kind of war -- so he switched all three! soldier and a tramp sat eating lunch in the Rocket Room Lounge atop the Reed-Warren Hotel in Manhattan. "Now Casey," said the tramp, "explain this thing to me. A week ago we ate garbage, if anything, and smoked cigar butts in corncob pipes. But today -- " "Today," said the Revolutionary War soldier, "we eat lobster, flown in from Maine, at the poshest spot in New York." "Yes," said the tramp. "And you're wearing that outlandish outfit and carrying a bloody big musket. You look daft, Casey." "Daft I look." said Casey, "and daft I feel, but there's moneyin the pockets of this silly costume. Or gold, anyway." "You've got gold in your pockets?" "Yes, but it spends as well as any money you ever saw." "Tell me what's happened to make you this way, daft and rich." The Revolutionary War soldier laid his musket across the table and lit a fifty-cent cigar. "I've brought you here to tell you, but I hesitate. You'll not believe me." "Please, Casey," said the tramp. "I'm most curious." "Okay. Well, it started a week ago today when I went to the post office to pick up my relief check. Another envelope was there for me, one with a smeary postmark so I couldn't tell where it came from." "And what was in the envelope, Casey?" "My orders. I'm being transferred to the Revolutionary War." Casey took a puff on his cigar. "That's remarkable," said the tramp. "But not easy to believe. What did the letter in the envelope say?" "Read it yourself," said Casey, taking the letter from his three-cornered hat and handing it to the tramp. "You know I can't read," said the tramp. "Then I shall oblige you," said Casey, putting on his Benjamin Franklin glasses. " 'Dear Casey,' it says here. Through error you have been stranded in the twentieth century when you should have been in the American Colonial Period.; You will be resupplied and transferred this week and will arrive in the American Colonial Period during the Revolutionary War. Please stand by and accept our apologies for putting you into a field for which you are totally unprepared.' " "That's all?" asked the tramp. "That's all," said Casey. "And what happened next?" "I thought it foolishness and kept the letter only as a curiosity. But when I woke up the next morning I found these fine buckle shoes under my bed in the flop house. I felt silly but I put 'em on because my own shoes were gone." "Amazing," said the tramp. IF "A marvelous thing," said Casey. "Of course, when I got back to the flop that night this threecornered hat was on my bed. I thought some of the boys were puttin' me on." "Was that it?" said the tramp. "Were some of them putting you on?" "No. Next morning my pants were gone and I found these kneebritches and silk hose hanging on the doorknob. The next day came this sissy-looking ruffled shirt and the coat," said Casey. "How'd you get up enough nerve to wear such a getup outside the house?" said the tramp. "I had to wear it. My own stuff was gone." "Still, you're sure it's not someone playing a trick on you? You know, stealing your clothes and giving you these?" "No chance. I know because day before yesterday I found gold in my pockets. Now who would leave that?" "Nobody we know, I guess." "And the horse. You know, the one we rode over here on? I found him saddled and parked between a Buick and a garbage truck yesterday morning when I came out of the flop. I knew right off he was mine." "And he's a nice horse, Casey, a really fine horse." "I know nothing about horses, but he's handsome all right. And I can ride him well enough -- and I was never on a horse before in my life. Can't think how I came by it -- the skill to ride, I mean." "So you're going back to the Revolution," mused the tramp. "Damn -- that's hard to believe. How'll you get there?" "I can't say, but I'm certain I'm going. I haven't a doubt. In fact, I expect to leave today. It's been a week since I got the letter." "Right. The letter said a week." "Yes." "You'll be missed around here, you know." "Oh, and I'll miss this city too, and my friends," said Casey. "But I really am a misfit. I don't like being a bum, really, for all its advantages. I've often felt that time and I were out of joint somehow." "Perhaps you'll do better back in the Revolution. Perhaps you'll be a success." "Well, I hope so. I mean. I'm dressed as a fine soldier -- maybe an officer even." Casey called attention to his uniform by pulling his vest smartly down. "And you have a good gun there." "Tielman at the hock shop offered me three-hundred for it, and you know how close he comes to true value." "Ha!" said the tramp. "He never comes near it."  tramp and the Revolutionary War soldier looked at each other. "We've been through a bit together," said the soldier. "We have," said the tramp. "I wish you were coming with me," said the soldier. "And I," said the tramp. "It's difficult to catch a ride on a freight anymore. Been figuring I'm slowing down. This life's no fun." "Yes, but I can't take you. I don't even know how I'm going myself." "I think you're going now," said the tramp. "Look at your gun." "Hey! It's fading away. Look!" The musket disappeared from the table. Casey sat up straight and put down his cigar. He patted his chest and felt his shoulders. "I seem solid enough," he said. "Not to me," said the tramp. "You're fading out. I can almost see through you to your chair." "Really now? Well -- I guess I'm going. I guess this is it." "Yes. I could read a newspaper through you now." "Ha! You can't read." "True, but you're getting mighty faint." "And I feel faint now. Do you suppose this is happening to the horse?" "I suppose so." "Well, old friend, goodbye." "Before you go -- one thing, Casey." "Hurry -- I feel myself slipping." "Leave some gold to pay for the meal. I'm broke." "Oh, yes," said Casey. He pulled a handful of gold coins from his pocket and shoved them across the table. "You keep whatever's left. I'm going. So long -- " "Goodbye, Casey." The tramp waved briefly as the Revolutionary War soldier disappeared. "I hope your luck's better in your new assignment." The tramp stuffed the gold into his pocket. He looked at the chair Casey had been sitting in, shook his head as if to clear it. He picked up the butt of the cigar Casey had been smoking and went to pay the check.  IF see today is obviously derivative from stories I saw decades ago. I suppose I should expect this. After all, the field has been mined steadily for almost half a century by clever idea-hunters; it isn't surprising that most of the major original ideas have been discovered and used. It is more than a hundred years since Achille Eyraud told of using a rocket ship to reach another world. "Doc" Smith wrote the pioneer space opera before there were science-fiction magazines. Wells gave us time travel; his War of the Worlds not only invented alien invasion but also set much of the style for disaster novels later done to death by Wyndham, Ballard and a host of others. Weinbaum taught us that aliens must be truly different in backgrounds, attitudes and instincts. I can't remember who first wrote of atomic power or atomic doom. Maybe we shouldn't expect anything but derivative stories. In most writing courses, original style is exalted and original ideas are forgotten, since mainstream novels have to be endless variations on familiar themes. Until people change radically, stories about them in our normal milieu cannot afford to use the unusual without losing conviction. Nothing is necessarily inferior about a derivative story, even in our field. Many wonderful ideas first came to us in pretty crude stories with no extensive development. Later writers could then reexamine the concepts with clearer and deeper perception and write far better stories around them. Murray Leinster used the old idea of first alien contact so well that his novelette became the definitive one on the subject. He gave us fresh insight, which is often claimed but all too seldom achieved. However, the real joy of science fiction to its devoted readers has been that it is a literature of ideas. Unlike other fictioneers, we have continually discovered new concepts and eventually have thought out clearly all the implications of those concepts. If we are to remain more than a minor subcategory of fiction, we continue to need those flashes of invention and insight desperately. Happily, lights are still burning where busy minds refuse to accept sterility or senescence. Ringworld , by Larry Niven (Ballantine, #t), is a fine example of a writer's thinking deeply and constructively about an idea of real science. Niven has taken the concept presented by Freman Dyson and thought hard and well about how it could be handled. Dyson proposed that a race may progress until it needs every bit of energy put out by its sun; to catch that energy, it will take all the planetary matter and build it into a sphere around the sun, with life spreading over the inner surface of this sphere. Niven has discarded the needless hypothesis of artificial gravity to hold objects down to that surface. He has set out to discover a practical way to create room for an expanding population. A sphere cannot be spun to create an inertial equivalent of gravity, since only the equator spins properly; and if you get up a huge ring around the sun, the atmosphere would simply stream off into space at the speed of rotation the ring would need. Niven has solved the problem neatly and to my mind completely. It's a beautiful concept, far more convincing than the Dyson spheres. (Curiously, however, astronomers have found some evidence suggesting possible Dyson spheres in space. Discovering Niven ringworlds would be far more difficult.) Furthermore, Niven hasn't stopped with a technical gimmick. He has looked at the effects of the creation of such a world on the race that might build it. And he has explored the world and its wonders in quite convincing detail. There's a great deal more to the story than the technical material. IF of course. There's a subplot involving what might be called a sort of "psi" mutation -- a human being who always has exactly the luck she needs. Because of this talent she has been deliberately included in the party that will explore the Ringworld. But the results of her luck are not at all obvious -- and Niven has thought this through as carefully and as originally as his background. She makes for an interesting character in the book. So does an alien who comes from a highly aggressive culture. The alien is handled with a subtlety and finesse that I haven't previously seen in Niven's writing; his growth toward understanding and true cooperation is never described in raw terms but is built beautifully into the patterns of behavior he consistently exhibits. The whole book marks a major step forward in Niven's writing, in my opinion. The human viewpoint character still has some elements that seem a bit wooden, and the plot doesn't always move forward with the smoothest pacing. But these are minor quibbles. And even in these areas, I find a considerable growth in Niven as a writer. I think it's a darned good book. In fact, of the science fiction I've seen so far this year, I can't think of a better contender for the Hugo and Nebula awards. I hope it will be as widely read as it deserves. The Stone God Awakens , by Philip Jose Farmer (Ace, #). This is an example of a highly familiar idea. Twenty-five years ago, Beyer's Minions of the Moon began with about the same situation -- one that was old then. A man from today is somehow put into suspended animation and wakes in the far future when everything civilized has long since passed away. Farmer, however, hardly ever touches an idea without bringing fresh insight to it. He hasn't merely destroyed civilization a few thousand years from now. He has jumped his hero forward destroyed the human race after a tremendous background of progress. He has then produced a whole series of sentient beings, different from man in some ways, with whom our hero must learn to live. And above all lies a single, dominant sentient being that bears no resemblance to humanity -- though it is a logical product of human progress. This is a vegetable, computerlike thing which has taken over most of what is left of our continent. The period of suspended animation isn't exactly a simple and convenient dodge to get Ulysses Singing Bear into the future, either. He has been infinitely indestructible and immutable during all those eons and has been mixed up in the developments as a "stone god" or unchanging object sent hither and thither across the savage or semicivilized worlds behind the future in which he finds himself. This is essentially the story of his search for a mate in the apparently mateless world, though his immediate job is to prove that he's a skookum god by overcoming the power of another god. Farmer has a trick of mixing what is obvious to the reader with nice developments that are not predictable. And his non-humans mix in complicated ways, as they should in a world where more than one sentient race exists. I assume this is the first of a series, since the ending is left wide open for the further exploits of Ulysses. But Farmer does sew up his primary problem in this novel, so that the book can stand on its own, unlike too many lately that simply stop after a certain number of pages. This isn't a major novel. It isn't meant to be anything but derivative in nature. And that doesn't matter, because Farmer has done his homework well; he has thought out those twenty thousand millennia, he has created the richness of background needed -- and he has faced the human problem of his hero honestly. It is a book of insight. Good fun with a few kickers buried in it, and well worth the price and reading time. When the writer has neither a new idea nor any new insight into handling the concept, he may still sell a book -- if his name is, say A.E. Van Vogt. Here is a writer who has long been recognized as having contributed a wild plethora of ideas in story after story, so that his name is genuinely and understandably provocative of intellectual excitement. His Children of Tomorrow (Ace, #), however, is pretty thin fare. Instead of working or thoroughly reworking one idea, he seems to have taken two old ones, thrown them together helter-skelter, and hoped vaguely that some good would come fortuitously. The result is something like taking left-over hamburger and chocolate pie and putting them in a blender in hopes of getting a fresh dinner. The first element is that an alien race is studying the world, preparing to take it over, with one of its number disguised as a human being. This should be a good idea for a Van Vogt story, given sufficient new insights into the alien ways of thought. The second idea is a humdrum concept of the children organizing themselves into state-recognized bands to bring themselves up without the mistakes of their elders. Unfortunately, the alien boy in the story never seems to be other than a duller version of the rest of the kids, while his "father" obIF server is merely a vagueness over the story, not at all realized in the way so many of Van Vogt's aliens have been. The outside menace becomes petty, mere window dressing. The wonder children fail miserably. They don't even equal the real examples of such attempts to escape the past one reads about in today's newspapers. Van Vogt's kid groups aren't cleared of the ancient ugliness of the tribal heritage, but seem to be rather sorry gangs in a stiff make-believe game of Junior Marvel Assistants. Their morality seems rather weaker, despite their stated aims, than that of some real kid gangs I have known. Apparently, one of their fathers should be the example of a recalciwhile the mother is the sympathetic one. I felt repelled by her idiocy throughout, and the only figure I could even faintly like was the father, until he turned into another patsy. I finished the book with growing reluctance -- but only because Vogt novel without reading it to the bitter end. The whole wasn't worth the trouble. I regret that, since I think the field badly needs some of the magic and excitement that this major writer gave it so often in the past. It's a shame, but I can only recommend that you pass this one by. tion books, however, which should not be overlooked. The Glass Teat , by Harlan Ellison (Ace, #), has little to do with science fiction, except that Ellison has become a major and controversial figure to those of us who read the field or who have met him at various conferences. It is a collection of his writings for The Los Angeles Free Press , ostensibly as television reviewer but actually as critic at large. It doesn't matter what these treatises are supposed to be, any more than it matters whether you agree with his opinions or not. What does matter to me is that here for the first time I find some feeling of Harlan Ellison, the whole man, telling it as he sees it, far more than he can do in his fiction. And I also find a man writing at his most effective best. Anyone who has enjoyed the stories by Ellison should read this. Or, lacking its presence on the bookstand, wait for the next collection of columns soon to be brought out. Here is a writer who has been leading a crusade to make science fiction more pertinent tp today; this book is his view of the today in need of such pertinence. The book also happens to be very much alive and fascinating and, from my experience with Ellison, honest. The fact that it is the best writing of his I have yet seen is an added bonus. I glanced at it, to put the book down only when I'd read to the end. I'm glad that he wrote the columns, that they were collected here and that I had a chance to read them. The other non-fiction book is directly concerned with science fiction. The Universe Makers , by Donald 'Wollheim (Harper  Row, #), is, to quote part of the blurb: "an excellent personal statement of the place of science fiction in literature, an excellent introduction to the genre for the beginner, and a source of discussion for the aficionado." For once, I have no quarrel 'with the blurb. Wollheim seems to have two basic ideas. The first deals with the importance of science fiction (in its totality, not specifically) in predicting the course and hope of civilization or the dooms that may befall man. He indicates his own belief that science fiction has not only often indicated the path of the future before it came about, but that the literature has even helped to shape that future. Certainly, he shows, it has greatly helped its readers to prepare themselves to accept or cope with the future. His second theme is an attempt to find the main patterns in the field. He finds that most of the fiction can be separated into two main streams: those who follow Jules Verne, dealing with technology and gadgets, with little moral value and much fantasy adventure; and those who follow H.G. Wells, dealing with technology only as it affects the sociological future of man, warning of dangers and offering considered hopes for our survival. In following his two themes, Wollheim discusses the work of most of the major writers who have written what might be called science fiction, whether in the magazines or in the mainstream. He is unusually frank, at least for a man who must deal with many of those writers; and I found his opinions stimulating and interesting, though I couldn't always wholly agree with them. I wish more of the men who have spent their lives in being influential in the field would state their personal philosophies of science fiction in books like this one. We've already lost some of them, but John Campbell, Robert Lowndes, and a number of others could well put between hard covers some of the things they have said in letters to their writers and -- partially -- in scattered writing on the subject. It is from such work as this that literary researchers of the future will be literary movement of the time. There is nothing new about the idea of memoirs and musings from IF influential men; it's an ancient form of writing, too often reserved for the military man and the politician. But since a man cannot live for years in any chosen vocation without developing insights that reflect a great deal of hard thought, it is writing that will always serve us well. Finally, there is an anthology which relates coincidentally to some of the things discussed by Wollheim and also has more of an honest reason than many I have seen lately. Nightmare Age , edited by Frederik Pohl (Ballantine, #c) gives us a choice of thirteen Wellsian stories which point out futures that might come to pass, their cause -- and sometimes, inferential, their cure. I have no desire to discuss thirteen separate stories in this space. Sufficient to say that the works run from Paul Ehrlich to Robert Heinlein, with a lot of good science-fiction writers in between. Most of them are very good stories. I can't say that I remember them all with pleasure -- but I can say that I'm glad I read them back when many of them foreshadowed what we realize today may be the future, and I'm glad to see them assembled here. If there is such a thing as Wollheim's Wellsian stream of science fiction, this anthology represents some of the best and most varied samples of that genre. It's a very good job.  Sheraton Columbus Motor Hotel, # North Third Street, Columbus, Ohio. Guest-of-Honor: Lester del Rey. For information: Larry Smith # F Roche Drive, Columbus, Ohio #.  the Commodore Hotel, New York, New York. Guest-of-Honor: John W. Campbell. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Howard DeVore. Features: Hospitality Room, Art Show, Banquet -- Toastmaster: Isaac Asimov. Membership: In advance (must be received by March #th) '#. For information: Devra Langsam, # Crown Street, Brooklyn, New York.  #th World Science Fiction Convention. At the Sheraton-Boston Hotel, Prudential Center, Boston, Massachusetts. Guest-of-Honor: Clifford D. Simak. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Harry Warner Jr. Features: movies, auctions, panels and speeches by sf pros, awards banquet, presentation of the Hugos. Registration: # supporting, # attending. No mail registration after August #. For information: Noreascon, P. O. Box # Cambridge, Massachusetts #. novelette Man had cleaned up Earth , but polluted the stars... I T 'HE glowing ball of Jupiter should have dominated the corner of space into which Jon Mather was gazing. But he could not see it at all. Only a dim diffused light filtered through the porthole of the spacecraft. The Santa Barbara was orbiting more than a surface of the giant planet and Jupiter should have loomed ten times as large as the Moon seen from Earth. Heavy black droplets floated outside the ship. They were round and dense in the zero gravity, barely illuminated by the light reflected from the hiddea, planet. And the greenish-yellow Jovian glow grew weaker still as the droplets began to collect on the outside of the porthole. Within a few minutes Jon Mather could see only his own distorted reflection in the glass. Disappointed, he removed the telephoto lens from his camera and turned to hail the Santa Barbara s chief navigator, who was just then floating forward through the craft's all but empty passenger section. "Not much of a view," he said. "Not much of anything," said the navigator. "We've lost radio communication, too." Jon raised an eyebrow. "It's no surprise, Jon. Not with all that fuel hanging out there." "You mean even radio waves won't travel through this muck?" "Oh, they'll travel through it just fine -- once they get off the transmitting antenna. But the fuel conducts r.f. current, and it's shorting out our antenna." "You mean we're in trouble?" "Probably not. We won't be running into very heavy space traffic around Callisto. And the Callisto control tower will be watching us on radar even if we can't talk with them." Jon glanced at the obscured porthole, shook his head sadly, turned back to the navigator. "I hope you didn't arrange the voyage through this fuel slick for my benefit." "Crazy we're not. Though you did come here to find a way to clean up this kind of mess, didn't you?" A red light flashed on at the front of the cabin. "I'd better get back to my post -- we'll be touching down soon." Jon turned his attention back to the fouled porthole. It remained as dark as before. Presently he felt the acceleration of the Santa Barbara's rockets as the spacecraft began its descent toward Jupiter's second largest satellite. A S he stepped from the airlock of the Santa Barbara onto the frozen surface of Callisto, Jon Mather tried to twist his head to see the huge planet whose image IF had been obscured from the spacecraft. But the heavy life-support suit made the maneuver almost impossible and he was able to see nothing more than a reflection of the yellow globe on the curved surface of his face mask. Frustrated in his second attempt to see Jupiter, Jon glanced back at the ship he had just left. It was difficult to recognize under its heavy layer of grime and even by the light of the sun, high in the Callisto sky, he could not make out the logo of the Solar Federation, which he knew was painted on its hull. The first navigator's voice sounded in Jon's headphones. "It was a lot filthier than that. Our descent through the atmosphere cleaned off some of the guck." "How could you see to touch down through this stuff?" Jon asked. "I was blind on my side." . "Automatic vapor cleaner for the control ports. We activated it once we left the slick." Jon nodded, though he knew the gesture was not visible outside the life-support suit. In a few moments he and the navigator had reached the airlock of the underground compound. A door slid shut behind Jon and the crewman and the automatic elevator began its slow descent. A faint mist formed on Jon's space mask as normal air filtered into the cabin. The door opened again, and he found himself in an antechamber that seemed identical to ones he had seen on the Moon. The ship's navigator helped Jon off with his bulky helmet and the unwieldy gloves. Then a guide in a turquoise uniform bearing the insignia of the Terran Mining Corporation, led him down long corridors to his quarters. Once alone in his small but comfortable looking room, Jon was quick to remove the rest of the life-support suit and don the light clothes he had packed for what would be entirely an indoor existence. A light rap came at the door. "Come in," Jon said. The door opened and a fairhaired man in his late twenties or early thirties strode in. "Ralph Lake!" Jon reached for the younger man's hand. "For God's sake -- it's been, what, ten years?" "All of that," said Ralph. "We were still Earthlubbers then, working for the Solar Federation." "What do you mean, Earthlubbers? You went with me on my first space flight?" The younger man's brow knitted, cleared. He grinned. "The Moon hardly counts these days. But you're right -- we flew to the Mining Engineering Congress on the Moon." "And I remember how rough that first flight was. Ships are a lot smoother now." "I hear," said Ralph, "that you've made yourself an impressive reputation on Mother Earth -- cleaning up the home land." Jon nodded. "It must have been shortly after the last time we saw each other that I was appointed to head the commission to curb the pollution problem." "It was a problem," said Ralph. "I remember the last time I saw Earth. The lake near the spaceport looked like an oil dump and I could probably have walked on it. Do you know the last thought I had of Earth as the ship lifted off?" "What?" "That at least we still had the means of getting above the blanket of smog that covered the planet." J ON Mather was silent for several moments. "It really was covering the entire planet," he said finally. "By the eighties all cities -- the smaller ones as well as the metropolitan giants -- had their own layer of what we were calling permasmog -- a layer so thick that even the prevailing winds couldn't blow it away. But there was worse. At upper atmospheric levels, the blankets of pollution from individual cities were joining together to form a continuous layer. By nineteen-ninety the upper-layer permasmog effectively covered the planet. Even over the poles the stars were dim through the dirt." "I remember," said Ralph. "That was about the time I left." Jon continued: "Trouble was, not only the stars were dimmed. Our Sun was, too. In nineteenninety New York City was an average four Fahrenheits cooler than it had been twenty years earlier. Extrapolate figures like that and it's not difficult to see where you're headed." "An ice age?" "Right. Oh, it would have taken a number of years more of this madness for the glaciers to move down across North America and Central Europe. But it was commg. "I remember reading some of the predictions before I left, but I wasn't sure I should believe them. They sounded like fiction." "Science fiction," said Jon, "is often as good as prophecy. But something worse than just cold was coming. And it would have come sooner. The atmosphere was changing. Again nineteenninety -- a crucial year -- the oxygen content of the troposphere was only eighteen percent, a drop of three percentage points in twenty years." Ralph's eyebrows shot up. "The effects were already evident. For years, the incidence of respiratory diseases had been skyrocketing because of the pollution. Now, without enough oxygen, the sufferers were having an even more difficult time. People who might have lingered for years IF with their ailments were dying of complications. Medically, the atmosphere had the reverse effect of an oxygen tent." "As I recall," said Ralph, "at the time I left Earth, many business buildings already had oxygen supply boosters installed in their air-conditioning systems." "After a while even some homes had them," said Jon. "Oh, the industries that had created the disease were quick enough to come up with certain cures -- especially those from which more money could be made. Oxygen boosters were already in production before the situation became critical. They began marketing on Earth the same chemical oxygen regenerators they're using here on Callisto." "After I left Earth," said Ralph, "I took a job on Mars, supervising the installation of oxygen regenerators. Mars was more pleasant than Callisto. In the middle of a summer day you could go walking with only a coat and an oxygen mask. Aside from the mask and the terrible dryness of the air, it wasn't much worse than a cool Spring day on Earth. But I remember thinking that some day I might go back to Earth -- and find it like Mars." "That's where Earth headed," said Jon, "though she would have kept a denser atmosphere than Mars even without oxygen. But there would have come a time -- maybe within two decades -- when you would have packed that oxygen mask to come home." #HY was the situation so   bad?" asked Ralph. "It's a good thirty years since government started to do something about pollution. "They didn't do enough. They managed to slow the rate of pollution some, but not enough to prevent permasmog. Man and his machines were using up more than old Earth could give. There were programs to plant trees. But we've estimated that for every tree planted by a conservationist a lumberjack was clearing one and a half acres of trees. And worse, the seas were dying. Fact is that the algae and other marine plants are the major producer of Earth's precious oxygen supply. Kill them and not even the biggest reforestation program you can devise will prevent the atmosphere from becoming Marslike. Yet the algae were dying as the oceans became a dumping ground for all our most undesirable wastes -- while we abused their resources. We felt the oceans were too big for us to dirty or hurt by misuse. Ralph laughed without mirth. "We're now thinking the same thing about space," he said. "Talk to Terran Mining about the accidental dumping of fuel into outer space and they'll tell you that it's a drop in a big bucket." "I intend to tell them that a lot of small drops make a bucketful." "They won't listen to you, Jon. Here on Callisto -- and on Ganymede -- everybody lives underground and on artificial air. The situation's different. They'll ignore all the Earth-type horror stories you can tell them." Jon thought for a few moments. "I'll have to try," he said finally. "That's why I'm here on Callisto, to see the Terran Mining brass. I'll also talk to their Industrial Standards Officer, who's responsible for keeping pollution down." "Terran Mining won't listen "I'll still see him and try to get the seriousness of the problem across to him." The silence hung long and heavy. A full minute ticked by before Ralph looked up. "Jon," he said softly, "I'm the Industrial Standards Officer." II T HE time was almost eight o'clock by the artificial twenty-four hour day that was a convention at the Callisto compound. The real Callisto day was more than two weeks long and was marked at midday by a solar eclipse, as the huge master planet hid the distant Sun. Jon Mather was sitting in the compound dining room, trying to shell a soft-boiled egg. And he was finding that carelessly gouged pieces of eggshell tended to fly about in the light gravity. Next to him, Ralph Lake chuckled as a chunk of egg struck Jon in the eyes. "You'll find that a lot better in your mouth," he said. "Damn planet." Jon swore with more feeling than astronomical accuracy. "This is worse than the Moon." "A little," Ralph conceded. "What do you weigh?" "Last time I was in a sane place, about one-seventy." "Here," said Jon, "you weigh only seventeen pounds -- eleven pounds less than on the Moon." "Well," said Jon, poking at the egg with renewed care, "it was worse on the spacecraft." "Just think how much worse it would be on Jupiter itself. Down there you'd weigh -- " he made a rapid mental calculation -- "a little better than four hundred and forty pounds." "I don't think I'll go." Ralph glanced up at the digital clock on the dining room wall. "About an hour until the meeting," he said. "Anything you can tell me about the people I'll be seeing?" "Well, let's see -- you'll be meeting Harris, the Terran Mining VP for Callisto. He's the one who does the talking. He'll be afIF fable as can be, provided you don't suggest the company spend money. But if you're going to accomplish anything you'll have to get through to Peters, who has a tendency to say nothing, encouraging or otherwise." "What's Peters' position?" "Liaison officer with Earth headquarters," said Ralph. "If anything gets properly recommended to the top men it'll have to pass through his hands." "And you'll be at the meeting, too?" "Yes, and on their side of the table. I'll be in charge of convincing you that we really are doing something to prevent space slicks." "And are you?" "Just count the slicks in orbit," said Ralph. "Then you tell me." "Then you think they're going to be difficult to deal with." "Oh, they'll be polite," said Ralph, "until you mention something expensive." about the politeness at least. Ron Harris was a large, affable man with a tendency to chuckle easily, if somewhat insincerely, each time he removed the large cigar from his mouth. Dirk Peters, the Earth liaison man, remained tight-lipped after the mandatory greetings, but Ron Harris was solicitous. "I hear," he told Jon, "that your ship hit the Chedabucto fuel slick on the way here." "Chedabucto?" "The slick was left there by the supertanker Chedabucto three years ago," Ralph put in. "We name each slick after the spacecraft responsible." Harris glared at Ralph briefly, evidently not too fond of the word responsible. He switched the grin back on for Jon's benefit. "Your pilot really should have raised our control tower and let us plot your approach to Callisto. We find we have no trouble avoiding the slicks." Jon leafed through a sheaf of papers he was holding, then withdrew one sheet. "It says here that the Chedabucto slick has a diameter of forty-five miles." "Right," said Harris. "Needle in a haystack." "The needle takes up about thirty-six thousand cubic miles in this case." Harris took a long slow pull from his cigar, released a column of smoke toward the ceiling. "An awfully big haystack, too." He looked at Jon through half-closed eyes. "You'll get used to the scale of space." Jon turned his attention again to the sheet he was holding. "According to the official report," he said, "The Chedabucto, bound for Callisto prbit with fuel, was struck by a small astermiles beyond the orbit of Mars' Harris turned around to look at his Industrial Standards Officer. Ralph nodded. "That would be about right." "But that means the accident took place more than a quarter of a From his corner Ralph nodded again. "The Chedabucto was on an accurate glide path for the rendevous orbit with Callisto. Even after the breakup of the ship, the fuel slick conserved the momentum of the ship itself and came in for a perfect meeting with Callisto." "Not perfect," Harris hastened to add. "The Chedabucto slick is a good thirty thousand miles off Callisto." Jon fell silent. He made some unhurried notations on a second sheet of paper. Presently he looked up. "I understand Ganymede wasn't so lucky. They got hit by -- " he glanced down again -- "the Cerebus slick." Harris shrugged, not taking the cigar from his mouth. "Suppose," said Jon, "that the Chedabucto had been aimed to miss Callisto, with the goal of applying a corrective maneuver at the last moment. That way a crackup in deep space wouldn't leave a fuel slick near an inhabited body." Harris seemed displeased, and once more glanced at Ralph Lake. Ralph remained silent and for the first time Dirk Peters joined the discussion. "Mr. Mather," he said, "I don't think you quite appreciate the economics of our situation. A tanker loaded with seventy kilotons of fuel weighs nothing at all in space. However it conserves its full terrestrial inertia. I believe that's correct Mr. Lake?" Ralph nodded without enthusiasm. "The tanker's job is to deliver fuel, not burn it up," continued Peters. "With the enormous mass of fuel involved we are constrained to make correctional maneuvers as early as possible in order to keep them small. Otherwise we burn far more fuel. And in that case the fuel we're delivering will be much more expensive." No one spoke for some moments. Finally Harris removed the cigar from his mouth. "The blunt fact is this, Mr. Mather," he said. "If we pay a lot more for Type C fuel, then Earth will pay a lot more for its copper, nickel, and iron." T HE next time Jon Mather saw one of the giant orbiting fuel slicks, it was from a respectable distance of a hundred miles. Through the porthole of the freshly scrubbed Santa Barbara the slick was a translucent, almost  IF black, smudge against the growing yellow sphere of Jupiter. The slick looked perfectly round, like a glassy planet. "That's the Liberia slick," said Ralph from the aisle seat. "It's smaller than average. It came here four years ago, when one of the older tankers sprang a major leak and broke up." "I hope we won't be flying through this one," said Jon, eyeing first his camera bag, then Jupiter. "This is as close as we'll come," said Ralph. "Callisto control calculated our orbit this time." He paused before adding: "Incidentally, it's only thanks to a good friend of mine at Callisto control that we're getting this close to a slick. Harris and Peters would put my ears in orbit if they knew I'd maneuvered this little sight-seeing tour." Jon rubbed his chin with his hand. "That slick is taking up far more space than it did in the tanker," he said thoughtfully. "But even after four years it hasn't expanded very much. I would have expected the droplets to go on dispersing, as an oil slick does on water." "Trouble is," said Ralph, "space has no currents to scatter pollutants as the sea has. And there is probably electrical attraction among the particles, keeping them from drifting too far from each other. That would explain the roundness of the slicks." "That would mean," said Jon, "that a space slick would behave as though it were a low-density solid." He looked out once more at the ghostly new satellite of Jupiter. , Mather had once more fitted the telephoto lens on his camera and was aiming it out of the porthole. The giant planet was close enough for him to see clearly the movement of the stormy equatorial bands as they roamed restlessly over the huge surface. He aimed the small reflex camera; the crystal shutter tripped all but soundlessly. "Just imagine that's a basketball," said Ralph from beside him. "Then imagine a marble next to it. That would be Earth." Jon took a second picture, swinging the camera toward the Great Red Spot, just coming into view at the corner of the planet. "The sheer size of it," he said, "makes you realize how fast those winds must be moving." "That's at least a two hundredmile gale," said Ralph. "Surface velocity -- if Jupiter had a surface." "No surface? What about those artists' concepts of what the Jupiter landscape looks like?" "I know -- they make it look like a cloudy Moon," said Ralph. "But Jupiter isn't dense enough to be that rocky. It has a quarter of Earth's density and well under half the Moon's." "Could it be hollow?" Ralph shook his head. "The moment of inertia isn't right for a hollow body, nor is the gravity. The planet is mostly light gases, like hydrogen and helium. The pressure increases massively as you enter the atmosphere and Earth atmospheres, hydrogen acts like a metal. We're used to having a sharp boundary between atmosphere and ground, which we call the 'surface.' But every body doesn't have one." "Strange planet." "That's the odd thing," said Ralph. "Jupiter isn't abnormal planet. It seems to be a star that didn't contract enough to build up the heat needed to ignite thermonuclear reactions." "You mean it's a cold star?" "Not as cold as you'd suppose. Jupiter radiates twice as much heat as it receives from the Sun. On Ganymede, where we're headed, it's not in the sunlight that it's warmest, it's on the side facing Jupiter." "Then the base is on the side of Ganymede that looks toward Jupiter." "No. It's on the side away from Jupiter. The cold , is the least of our problems on Ganymede." ble through the porthole of the Santa Barbara now. Jon Mather was taking more souvenir pictures when Ralph Lake tapped his shoulder and pointed away from the approaching satellite. "There," he said. Jon looked and saw his first supertanker. The Santa Barbara was still more than fifteen miles from the orbiting tanker but the latter's gargantuan proportions were already impressive. The long cylindrical body stretched through space, longer than sixty football fields. At the head was a stubbier section from which lights glowed. "That front part is the command cabin," said Ralph, pointing to the head of the giant arrow. "It's detachable so that the crew can use it to get home in case of a disaster. That's why the crew of only one supertanker has been lost." Jon's eyes roved down the immense latticework of the tanker's girderlike body. Sensing his interest, Ralph continued his description. "That's the Torrey Cliff  which arrived off Ganymede about a week ago. It looks about threequarters full." He pointed to the ribs of the tanker's body. "That's a collapsible plastic shell inside there," he said. "When all the fuel is gone, you can see through it." The spacecraft drifted close enough to the huge tanker for Jon to pick out, by Jupiter's yellow IF light, the markings of the Terran Mining Corporation on the hull of the control cabin. Then the tanker receded and the Santa Bar baras rockets came to life for the descent. Ill H IS helmet off, Jon had the fleeting impression that he was back on Callisto. The entrance to the compound, he thought, was as similar to its Callisto mate as two motels of a chain on Earth. The decorator had used slightly different pastel paints this time. But the large entrance sign with the integral clock, reading Welcome to Terran Mining , Ganymede , #:# , looked as though it had come from the same workshop as its Callisto counterpart. By the time he had been led to his room Jon had seen that, for all its resemblance to the Callisto compound, the Ganymede structure was much smaller. That was logical, he thought, since it lacked the offices of the top Terran Mining officers who were present on the more distant satellite. By the time the dining room clock read #:#, Jon and Ralph had completed their light supper and Ralph was proposing a small tour of Ganymede. Jon agreed readily. He had things to see before he met with the governor of Jupiter System. Too, he had always imagined that Jupiter, seen from a near satellite, must be an awe-inspiring sight. The plastic treads of the twoman surface car rumbled and whined against the cold ground of Ganymede. Jon tried to estimate the speed of the vehicle but found the featurelessness of the landscape made the motion seem more leisurely than it probably was. He wondered that a tread-equipped vehicle was capable of any great speed, but then realized that the woosh of air underneath was virtually keeping the car hoyering in the low gravity, with only enough ground contact to allow steering. The Sun was climbing rapidly toward zenith but the stars were still clearly visible. Ganymede lacked even the thin atmosphere that gave Callisto its velvety blue sky. Jon found the transmitter button of his life-support suit and told Ralph of his desire for another look at Jupiter. "Fine with me," answered Ralph, "but I think you'll be surprised by what you see." After a number of minutes of rapid travel along the cratered plain, Jon was realizing that Ganymede, for all its lack of gravity, was not tiny. It was in fact more than a  third the size of Earth. "It's more than two thousand miles to the Jupiter side," said Ralph's voice in Jon's earphones, "but you'll be able to see part of it on the horizon if we take this route. We'll be there in an hour." It was in fact forty-two minutes later that Jon noticed the first yellow-green sliver of Jupiter rising above the jagged horizon. Gradually the ball grew and began to climb into the dark sky, as the surface car dropped down a long sloping hill. The hill turned even more sharply down as more of the huge planet appeared and Jon could hear the treads of the vehicle slipping on the rock below. 'That's far enough," said Ralph and braked the car to a stop. He opened the door and invited Jon out. Still clumsy in the unaccustomed bulk of the life-support suit, Jon swung his legs out of the vehicle, but as he stood up he lost his footing and fell several feet down the sharp incline. "Are you all right?" inquired the anxious voice in his headphones. He was, though he could not instantly find the transmitter button to say so. Ralph helped him to his feet easily in the light gravity. Jon looked toward the panorama of Jupiter, watching its angry winds spinning across its center. He was momentarily surprised to see the Great Red Spot in this top half of the planet, but then realized that he must be looking at the southern hemisphere. Viewing the yellowish ball made him feel uneasy. The sharp downward slope gave him the impression that if he should slip again he might slide forever, down toward the big planet. He communicated his feeling to Ralph and heard a chuckle of response. "This isn't really a hill," said Ralph. If you surveyed it from orbit it would look as flat as anything else on Ganymede." "But it is downhill," Jon protested. "That's at least a twentydegree slope." "Nice guess. It's just over nineteen degrees, actually. But it's an illusion Normally, your hundred and seventy Earth pounds wouldn't weigh more than twelve pounds in Ganymede's light gravity. But Jupiter is so huge that even here, six hundred thousand miles away, it accounts for a gravitational pull about half that of Ganymede itself." Inside the helmet Jon nodded. "It looks downhill to Jupiter," continued Ralph, "because about a third of the gravitational pull on you is coming from Jupiter itself. That distorts your concept of which way 'down' is." "I'm beginning to understand why the settlements are all on the side away from the planet." "Right. On the inhabited side, where you benefit from the gravity of both Ganymede and Jupiter, you'll weigh in at close to nineteen pounds. But if we drove around to the side facing Jupiter, the planet would be trying to pull you upward and you'd drop down to less than six pounds." IF J ON took a final look at the yellow ball with the angry red spot and climbed back into the vehicle. He felt relieved once the surface car was climbing back up the seeming hill, away from Jupiter. Within twenty-five minutes, the last sliver of the big planet had vanished behind the speeding vehicle and the bleak plain of Ganymede seemed fiat once more. The car rumbled on for more than ninety minutes among bleak craters, some with imposing high walls, but most of them small and unprepossessing. Then he saw at a distance that seemed to be about five miles their next destination -- the outline of a space mining site. Jon could see the huge automatic drills and the ore lifters, all of them as black as the sky of Ganymede. When the car had reached the site, he could see why the equipment reflected so little light. It was covered by a thick layer of a syrupy black substance. Jon saw even before Ralph spoke that it was Type C fuel. "The edge of the slick just caught Mining Site Number Two," said Ralph. "We've approached it so as to avoid most of the slick. It goes for almpst forty miles that way." He pointed into the distance. "Two men died here I believe?" Jon said into his suit microphone. "Yes, two miners," said Ralph's voice. "The danger of Ganymede's meeting the slick was known. But .the final warning from Ganymede control came too late. The two men were still here when the fuel began to rain down. Type C fuel corrodes the organic materials used in life-support suits. The miners were dead in two minutes." "Since the space slicks follow predictable orbits, like solid bodies, why wasn't the disaster predicted sooner?" There was a long pause before Jon heard Ralph's transmitter carrier again. "As Industrial Standards Officer for Terran Mining Corporation," he said, "I'm supposed to assure you that such a thing wouldn't happen again. Little was known then about the mechanics of the slicks. They behave like solids most of the time because of their .internal electrical fields. But they break up suddenly in a strong gravitational field." Jon's eyes ran over the stout frame of the ore lifter which, even from a few feet away, looked more like a shadow than a substantial object. He fancied he saw a drop of fuel drip from a cable. Jon marveled at how little the fuel had evaporated in four years despite the lack of atmosphere. He touched his suit transmitting button once more. "Suppose the slick had hit an inhabited compound instead of a mining installation?" "That," came the answer, "is something the governor of Jupiter System will no doubt want to bring up with you." night. He could not shut Jupiter from his sight and he was falling, falling into the planet. The stormy bands of powerful wind were getting closer, but his feet were slipping on an ocean of Type C fuel and he could not check his drop toward the angry world. The Great Red Spot glared at him wrathfully, like the eye of a Cyclops. Come , it said. Jon saw again the abandoned fuel-fouled structure of Mining Site Number Two. The lonely dark framework of the equipment was awash with the black syrup. And now he could see, standing among the abandoned machines, two skeletons, looking out accusingly, their silent jaws drooling the thick liquid that was everywhere. He saw Jupiter once more and heard a voice somewhat like Ralph's. "Jupiter is hydrogen and helium," said the familiar voice, like that of a tour guide. "The gases are too colorless to form the Great Red Spot. Helium is inert. But the red-colored compounds of hydrogen are all organic. Thus the spot is undoubtedly organic. Jon saw Mining Site Number Two again, fouled with fuel. But this time the site was on the tempest-tossed surface of Jupiter itself. And this time the fuel was not inky black but red, like the Great Red Spot, like a vast sea of blood. The two skeletons stood, covered in red, extending bony index fingers. At him. G overnor Robert noman than Jon would have expected -- thirty-five at the very most, he estimated. The reason for that was evident: the rugged and bleak satellites of Jupiter were a place for a young and vigorous man. Governor Nolan received Jon in an unostentatious private office in the government complex, which was about twenty minutes by surface car from the much larger quarters of Terran Mining. It did not take long for Terran Mining to come into the conversation. "We have little power here," he was saying. "As you no doubt know, Jupiter System has a status in the Solar Federation inferior to that of most countries on Earth, to say nothing of colonies like Mars or the Moon. There's little we can do -- without Federation help -- to combat this kind of menace." "If I understand Terran Min-ing's argument," said Jon, "they're saying, that Jupiter System is not intended to be a pretty environment, but merely a rock IF bed to be exploited for all the minerals it contains." The governor nodded. "I know all that. And they're right in a way, of course. There's no ecology to harm here and I'm not suggesting that we try to beautify Callisto and Ganymede. They're modern equivalents of the old Earth mining towns, meant to pay, not please." Nolan paused. "But now we have six slicks in orbit, not counting the one that struck Mining Site Number Two. That's the situation after five years. How many slicks will we have after ten years, fifteen years? And how large? Each new tanker is built larger than the last." Jon looked at him, not speaking. After a decade of fighting the scars of a century of pollution on Earth, Jon Mather's instincts ran parallel to those of Governor Nolan. Certainly he did not believe that limited pollution could remain limited. Yet he knew that the economic reality of Jupiter System made the pollution inevitable. There would be no settlement of Jupiter's satellites at all without Terran Mining. Indeed, all but a few of the men governed by Nolan were employees of Terran Mining. They owed their livelihood to the continuance of practices that made cheap commercial exploitation of Ganymede and Callisto possible, even if it meant fuel slicks in orbit, like so many man-made asteroids. T HE trip back to Earth was long for Jon. It was true that he had Ralph Lake to talk to, since Ralph had easily maneuvered his employer into letting him accompany Jon to Earth, ostensibly to remind him of the company's side of the argument. And then he had a report to write. He would be seeing the Transport Secretary of the Solar Federation and he had his recommendations to decide on. Jon was lonely for Earth. He deeply loved his home planet -- perhaps that was why space exploits had tempted him little -- and that love had been deepened by the ten years he had spent healing her beauty. As the Santa Barbara sped silently through the blackness of deep space, Jon spoke gladly of the Earth the younger man had not seen for nearly ten years. He would find it changed, Jon promised. The number of trees had more than doubled, would double again in the coming decade. Beaches on the Great Lakes were a booming tourist attraction unparalleled in anyone's memory. There was even good swimming on the Hudson River. "Is the Nile green again?" asked Ralph. "Yes. Ten years ago it was all the rainbow colors an oil slick can produce." "The last legacy of the petroleum age," mused Ralph. "But it wasn't only the development of new fuels that turned the trick?" "No, though there was a lot of technology involved. We made more than thirty different recommendations requiring the development of new equipment and techniques. The Solar Federation provided the cash to follow up everyone of them. There were new means to precipitate waste solids in the atmosphere. There were new means of disposing of sewage and industrial waste. And there were new means of catching up for more than a hundred years of neglect. For instance, we drained Lake Erie for six months and scrubbed fresh water and restocking it with fish." "Incredible!" "The Federation expropriated huge tracts of land all over the world to build newly forested parklands." "To help replenish the oxygen supply?" "Exactly. And a new paperlike plastic was developed, so that millions of trees need not be cut down just to produce one day's newspapers. Furthermore, we found our own application for the oxygen regenerators that were already on the market. The larger industries are now obliged to generate and release into the atmosphere at least ninety percent of the oxygen consumed by their other machines. The oxygen content of the atmosphere is now back to twenty percent -- and it's still rising." Ralph was thoughtful. "There's no doubt that you're the miracle man of Earth," he said. "But on this mission they sent you all by v yourself, with no fellow commission members. Does the Federation really expect you to solve the space-slick problem?" "I suppose not. I'm expected to make some innocuous suggestions that will keep the crisis at least temporarily within control, to calm the anxious." "If I know you," said Ralph, "you won't do that at all. You'll tell the Federation to act now or face a situation worse than Earth's later on." Jon smiled. "I guess you know me," he said, then added: "But if I do that, my report will be put in the circular file." "Did you suspect that when you accepted the assignment?" "Oh, I had my illusions. After all, for the first time in history, a man had been given the green light to clean up the Earth. I had been that man and Earth had listened to me. Why could I not hope that it would again, if I told Earth she could not hope to remain pure in a defiled universe?" IF "And I thought only the young had illusions like that." "Which brings up the question," said Jon, "of why you chose Mining," "How many times I've asked myself that question!" he said. "But you weren't the only man with illusions. I was shaken by what men had done to Earth and were doing even to dead Mars. Rather than remain on Mars and be a party to its ravage. I took a chance on a job in which I could aid industry to keep the environment clean." He smiled wryly. "Only it took me time to realize that my real job was to find excuses not to do it." T HE meeting at the Solar Federation building, the huge new addition to the complex that had once housed the United Nations, had gone as expected. Jon had been somewhat surprised that he had been allowed to see only the Assistant Transport Secretary and not the Secretary himself. He had explained his report with emphasis on as many telling points as he could think of and he had been rewarded with a patient hearing. But now Jon held the letter from the Federation acknowledging his report. The letter needed very little reading between the lines. "I understand your point of view," the Assistant Secretary had told him, "but we must look at facts. There is no ecology to kill out there, no delicate balance of nature to upset as there is on Earth. We can learn to avoid fuel slicks in space as easily as we avoid the space debris that is not of our making. "What you must understand is that the remarkable work you accomplished here on Earth could not have been done at an earlier time -- and not only because there was no Solar Federation. Earlier generations had to choose between genuine pollution control and industrial development. They could not renounce the latter and so settled for a useless minimum of the former. "If we were able to let you clean up Earth, it was because the largest industrial interests are no longer on it. They are on the Moon now, making steel and fuel; on Mars, making heavy machinery and on Jupiter System, mining metal. "The conservationists have reclaimed Earth because the polluters have forsaken it for space. Before they can reclaim the Solar System, industry will have to go to the stars." Mather's recommendations that the Federation seemed inclined to accept. They would not force the supertankers to use indirect approaches to inhabited bodies, would not force them to use thicker and safer hulls, would not limit their size, would not develop the equipment needed to collapse the electrical fields of the space slicks and scatter them. However, the Chedabucto y Jon had noted, had collided with an asteroid because of its malfunctioning radar unit and the commander's failure to get adequate course information from the Martian spaceport. The Federation agreed that there should be stricter rules forcing tankers to carry more safety equipment and to follow navigational rules. If the Federation had acted swiftly enough to enact the new regulations the California and the Skagway might not have collided. Jon was basking in the Spring magnificence of his country home when the news of the collision came. Still with him as a house guest was Ralph Lake, spending his accumulated leave from Terran Mining. Ralph had not yet recovered from the newfound vitality of Earth. He was doubly amazed by the presence of this new Eden in the heavily mined out Appalachian mountains, once an ugly scar on the face of the planet, and the personal hell of some of North America's poorest people. But now the small mining towns, with the rows of tin shacks, were gone, dismantled. The trees were back, as were the grass, the unfiltered sunshine. The brook, which Ralph guessed had once served as an industrial sewer, was pure enough to drink from. The news of the collision of the two supertankers was a jolt back to ugly reality for both men. They watched the television screen anxiously, as space-borne cameras beamed, live, the familiar image of the black smudge of a space slick, this time against the backdrop of the Moon. But these two new tankers had been the forerunners of a new larger type. They had just been completed in orbit off the Moon and were bound on their maiden voyage to Jupiter, when an uncorrected radar fault in the Skagway allowed the two vessels to brush too close. Their cargo spilled into the void. The huge new slick was not like the others. This time it contained oily bulk diffused into a mist that cubic miles. It floated uncertainly not far from Earth. Earth's inhabitants watched agonizingly, from day to day, as the huge slick skirted the outer reaches of the atmosphere. After five days came the good news from a scientist at Dunway observatory on the Moon: the slick was in a stable orbit about Earth and would remain there. Its threat was ended. IF Jon turned off the television screen. Ralph gazed into the darkness. At length the younger man said, "He's wrong you know." Jon whirled round to face him. "He'd be right about the stability of the orbit if he could be sure that the Skagway slick would continue to behave ljke a genuine solid object. But the slick is now in the gravitational field of Earth. Anyone on Ganymede could tell you what will happen." "Perhaps -- " said Jon slowly -- "perhaps this time it won't happen. He was wrong of course. The Sun, rising above the worn Appalachians, shone down through the sullen dimness of the yellowed sky. By noon the thick viscous rain was already falling on the dying trees.  Dear Mr, Jakobsson: It seems that you dont read what you print in your magazines or you wouldnt have made the statement on page # in the Nov.-Dee . # issue of IF at the end of Monarch. You state that the ending of that story leaves the series open for renewal. Well , it doesnt. Why? If you will remember Aug. # issue of IF Equals Four, it explains what happens after the Jann rescues Judy Galland from Lepidop. One last thing: please have the authors of stories about Computers keep the terminology in context. It irks me when they dont because Vm a pro gramer. Gene Wolfe s story King Under the Mountain didnt. Kirk Jameason Mt. Ephraim , N.J. ham is comforting -- it's great to know the stories are being read. Regarding King Under the Mountain , if you'd care to be specific I would ( Continued from page #) be glad to forward your comments to the author. Dear Sir: I have been reading both your magazine and your sister magazine , Galaxy, for lo these years and the recent changes in the makeup and content of both magazines bother me. I have no objection to the introduction of new writing talent provided it is current issue and already Vm 'regusted" with the levels set in this issue. To list a few gripes: The Watchers -- one of the hoariest plots in all of sf and badly done at that. Ids so old it might seem new to a neophyte, but I never thought Vd see that one in print again . She Still Do -- introduction of extraneous plot material causes a muddled picture. Just what is Rogers getting at with the introduction of wife-beating, etc? Monarch -- This is supposed to series and I say hurrah! I have never found dentistry a fit subject for fiction. A nd on and on and on. I have heard a rumor that you have several of A. Bertram Chandler s Rim series with good old Grimes in them in your files. May I suggest , instead of printing neophyte material which would receive an F in a beginning writing' class that you print a whole issue of Chandler. Then your readers would have something to read! Sincerely yours , Hollywood , Cal. You'll have to keep burning a while, John. Contrary to your information, we're freshly out oLGrimes stories, but hoping for more. Gentlemen: I don't belive it! Is Laumer kidding? Richard Kimmel In what context? Dear sirs: Since P.H. Vogel raised the issue in your letter column recently , I feel the urge to tell you my own definition of science fiction: Science fiction is that branch of fiction which deals with events and phenomena that cannot be said to have any definite existence in the real world, but which could, in the opinion oj the author, exist without our being aware of them, especially in the future. Also, in the interest of egotism, I would like to present my idea of those things which science fiction is especially good at doing: I ) Exercising the imagination. #) Developing perspective. #) Expanding the interests of the reader into arts, sciences, and politics. # Examining the consequences of a change. #) Examining an ideal pragmatically# ) Wedding art to science. # ) Illustrating a principle. #) Escaping into reality  science fiction is a kind of escapist literature that tends to mirror the real world much more than detective stories, television, or sword  sorcery fantasy. It thus has a therapeutic effect on the neurotic escapist.) Number # is the only benefit of science fiction that I can claim as completely my own, but I think the list has value in giving the reader an idea of how science fiction is essentially different and potentially better than fantasy and straight fiction. I hope you will find the definition and the list interesting and useful. Yours truly, J.W.Zabel Youngstown, O. P.S. Your story introductions are ihe worst in the business. If you mean story blurbs, I couldn't agree with you more. And while we're on definitions -- how about some ideas on what science fiction can say # Or mean? Dear Editor: Have read If and Galaxy for many years and this is my first time to write I must tell you how much I enjoyed the Nov.Dec. issue. Not a bad story in it , and one exceptionally great one. A Hefping Hand by Juanita Coulson has my vote for the best short story of the year , followed closely with Shambolain by Dean A. Koontz. More, more, more by these two fine authors. Florence Jenkins Gardena, California Dear Mr . Jakobsson; Congratulations on your fine editorial work in Galaxy and its sister publications. Vve been reading them for over a decade and though there have been some lousy stories, I can say on the whole Vve enjoyed them tremendously. And perhaps look forward with more anxiety to each new issue since you took over, than before. I think this is only to see what's going to happen next. In fact I think most magazines are pretty exciting these days, even if I don't always agree with the authors. I  was happy to see that Worlds of Tomorrow was being revived. I found after much searching the, first new issue and was favorably impressed. Then I saw the second new issue and bought it. I have a complaint now. Our distributor, like many throughout the country, evidently doesn't like to handle anything but sex and j or slay magazines. Therefore I got my copy out of town while visiting friends. The issue is good , especially the editorial. I know quite a few students from Kent State, living where  do, and have heard many viewpoints on the matter.  therefore looked forward to the Science-fiction stories frem Socialist countries Here is a book that is truly a boon to science-fiction fans -- the best stories of nine writers whose work has seldom, if ever, appeared on this side of the Atlantic. Whether the reader comes to enjoyment -- or to grasp a deeper understanding of socialist idealism -- he is sure to come away fully satisfied. "An immensely valuable addition to the science fiction canon... great enjoyment.  frederik pohl rest of the issue. Unfortunately, in the first piece, I got halfway through and found myself staring at page #. Sir, pages # to # are replaced by pages #-#. It is next to impossible for me to return this magazine to the dealer where I bought it. I was and am still burned up over the fact that I paid # I for an imcomplete magazine. What  have read around, the magazine is good. I hope it makes it, but I think you better check the next time to keep this from happening. Vll buy the next issue, when and if it ever shows up around here. But please dont let this happen again. Sincerely Yours, John A . Beck Youngstown, Ohio An intact copy has been mailed to you. Machines at the binder's sometimes -- but infrequently -- make errors and a limited number of misbound copies go through before they're caught. Your letter was the first intimation I had that anything had gone Sorry you were inconvenienced. Dear Sir: I am interested in obtaining information concerning Paolo Soleri and his Containers for the Condition of Man, (Galaxy, July, #) especially Arcosanti. The Arizona container fascinates me and  would like to know the requirements for obtaining a niche in this revolutionary "city." I would greatly appreciate any help you can give me. Thank you. Susan Soss Buffalo, New York Sir: I would like to correspond with Paolo Soleri who was mentioned in the article. Containers for the Condition of Man, in your magazine (Galaxy, July, #). The author was Lauri Virta. I am a college student -- mathematics -- interested in the above-mentioned " condition ." I want to find out how Mr. Salens work on a live experiment is progressing; if there is anyone in my area doing such work; and if there is any possibility of my working on such a project or related studies. I have access to a large computer, and have some capacity for simulation studies or whatever. I also would not mind wielding a cement mixer for a summer. Thank you. Gregory Chesson Schenectady, New York You will reach Mr. Paolo Soleri by writing to him at the Cosanti Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona #. S IX months have passed since the last report to the consumers in Galaxy -- it's time for another. If I can shoulder enough other type out of the way the latest six-month collection of your bombs, bouquets and bullets will appear in the April issue: Featured will be your comments on contents from Heinlein to Silverberg and others, survey results. The bouquets are beautiful. The bullets are deadlier than the bombs -- and this is true: You never hear the one that kills One cancer you can give vourself. Houi's your Imagination Quotient? Test yourself, then treat yourself to # volumes of fascinating mind-stretchers for just  I No one on your world has ever seen the stars. A strange legend foretells something called "night" will come tomorrow for the first time in # years. What will happen when it does? visit another planet. Your ship lands and you find the house you grew up in. The woman on the porch is your grandmother! What's the explanation? A great starship suddenly confronts another ship from an alien civilization. Can either race be sure the other won't conquer his world? Is there an alternative to destroying each other? You'll find the dazzlingly imaginative, beautifully logical answers in three famous stories in The Science Fiction Hall of Fame -- an anthology of the greatest SF literature of all time. And you can have this #-page, hardbound book -- plus two more masterpieces of the world's most entertaining, provocative fiction -- for just I plus shipping and handling. It's all part of coupon tells how easy it is. Science Fiction Book Club #-S#I Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me just a # plus shipping and handling for all #. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin "Things To Come" describing the two monthly selections and other book bargains. If I do not wish to receive one of the two monthly selections, or prefer an alternate or no book at all, I simply indicate so on the form provided. I pay only #, plus shipping and handling for each book I take. (Occasional extra-value selections are slightly more.) I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign any time after purchasing # books. tory package, I may return it in # days and membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing. MR. Print name If under #, parent must sign above. Office use only Rny # books for I with trial membership. #. Science Fiction #. Five Fates. A #. The Year #, Hall of Fame, I. remarkable tour de An Anthology ed# "winners." choforce. Five top ited by Harry Harsen by Sci-Fi Writwriters supply their rison. Thirteen ers of America. Ed. own endings for. compelling new Robert Silverberg. "After life, what?" stories on the qualPub. ed. # Pub. ed. # ity of life # years ...  from now. Pub. ed. #. Stand on Zanzi#. Rockets in Ursa  # bar, by John BrunMajor by Fred ner. Life in U S # Hoyle and Geoffrey #. The Foundayears from now Hoyle. A spaceship ion Trilogy, by Hueo Award Win returns crewless, Isaac Asimov. The ner # o ages announcing the ends of the galaxy Puh ed # # ' coming of a deadly revert to barbarism. Pub. ed. #  ub ed M w p ub ed # by James Bl.sh. ' # Childhood s Fuure b A E Seven strangely tpo by Arthur C. v V oti Th comp ,,: -- riarVo Mankind van yogi. in our inescapable huearth, manity. Pub ed tastic!" Atlantic # Pub. ed. # pelling stories f a f e cn " d  electrifying adTenmortality and the secrets of time. #. Neanderthal #. Beyond the #. DangerousViPlanet, by Brian W. Beyond, by Poul sions. Anthology of Aldiss. # novella Anderson. # novel# original stories gems. Never before las by Hugo Award never before in published in U.S.! winner. About sciprint by Sturgeon, Shrewd, witty, inentists, pirates, Anderson, others, genious. "loners." Pub. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in size, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.j?A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly'different in Canada.  Lee Harding The Fabulous Riverboaf Ertw. The sardonic tale of organized crime's biggest job ever -- hijacking the first starship. The sun's going nova, and the Syndicate isn't about to sit back and burn -- so... instant Mafiastronauts! Anthology of Fantasy and Science Fiction, . in paperback. Great stories by everyone from A Anderson to Zelazny. We'll be putting them in a JM nice boxed set for Christmas, but why wait? Lovecraft Lovers! Beagle's Arkham Edition of H. P. Lovecraft is now More coming later on in '# I . # each wherever paperbacks are sold. For mail orders, please send # for each book (includes postage and handling) to: Beagle Books, Dept. CS # West # Street New York, N.Y. #I An Publisher #I Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. #  Moy-Jun, #I Vol.#, No. #I Umi I # Ejler Jakobsson, Editor Lester del key. Feature Editor Judy-Lynn Beniamin, Managing Editor Franc #. Boggeri, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director l.C. Murphy, Subscription Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director SniAl (PortI) tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: S# in the United States, elsewhere S#. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. T hose who like to think of themselves as serious students of literature are deeply concerned with the purpose of fiction. Of course, they immediately reject its obvious purpose of entertainment as unworthy of their approval. Any story which seems limited in value to mere pleasure is called "escape literature" and held in considerable contempt. Generally, science fiction has been treated as belonging to that unworthy category. Now, however, they may have to change their attitude about this. If a book which has been on the nonfiction best-seller list for many weeks is correct, science fiction may be the one form of literature which has the greatest and most necessary value to its readers. Future Shock, by Alvin Toffler (Random House), has nothing directly to do with science fiction. It discusses the future, but in as factual a manner as possible. The book is deeply concerned with our present and our seeming inability to deal with it. According to Tofller's theory most of the ills of our present stem from the fact that people cannot adjust to the rapid changes going ( Please turn to page #) ese seat minds were Rosicrucians Isaac Newtom Why were these men great? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. of v.The Mastwy rf Life" -- A nontr#fsc organiza. tion Address : Scribe U.R.C. San Jose, California #, U.S.A. Please send me the free book. The Mastery of Life, which explains how I may learn to use my faculties and powers of mind. It would be named the Not For Hire, No one would ever be able to take it away from him, it would be so strongly armored and weaponed. Nor would anyone be able to buy or rent it from him. It would be Not For Hire, The name glowed in great black The fabulous Riverboat would have four decks, the boiler deck, the main deck, the hurricane deck and the landing deck for the aerial machine. Its overall length would be four hundred and forty feet and six inches. The beam over the paddle-wheel guards would be ninety-three feet. Mean draft, loaded, twelve feet. The hull would be made of magnalium or, perhaps, plastic. The great stacks would spout smoke now and then, because there was a steam boiler aboard. But this was only to propel the big plastic bullets for the steam machine guns. The giant paddlewheels on the sides of the Riverboat would be turned by enormous electrical motors. The Not For Hire would be the only metal boat on The River, the only boat not propelled by oars or wind, and it would make anybody sit up and stare, whether he was born in # B.C. or in # A.D. And he, Sam Clemens, would be The Captain, Capital T, capital C, because, aboard this vessel. carrying a crew of one hundred and twenty, there would be only one Captain. King John of England could call himself Admiral if he wished, though if Sam Clemens had anything to do with it, he'd be First Mate, not Admiral. And if Sam Clemens really had anything to do with it King John -- John Lackland, Rotten John, Dirty John, Lecher John, Pigsty John -- would not even be allowed on the boat. Sam Clemens, smoking a big green cigar, wearing a white cap, dressed in a white kilt with a white towel over his shoulders for a cape, would lean out of the starboard port of the great pilothouse and yell, Avast there, you lubbers! Grab hold of that putrescent mass of immorality and treachery and toss him off the gangplank, I don't care if he lands in The River or on the bank! Get rid of that human garbage! Over the railing of the boiler deck Prince John would sail. Slyboots John, screaming, cursing in his French-accented Middle English or in Anglo-Norman French or in Esperanto. Then the gangplank would be drawn up, bells would ring, whistles would blow and Sam Clemens, standing behind the pilot, would give the order to begin the voyage. The voyage! Up a River for IF be forty years or a hundred years. Such a Riverboat, such a River, such a voyage had never been dreamed of on Earth, long dead Earth! Up The River, the only one on this world, on the only boat like this, with Sam Clemens as La ipestro , The Captain, and also addressed as La Estro, The Boss. He was so happy! And then, as they headed out toward the middle of The River, just to test the current, which was strongest in the center of the mighty stream, as the thousands along the bank waved and cheered or wept after the boat, after him, Samuel Langhorne Clemens, alias Mark Twain -- The Captain, The Boss -- he saw a man with long yellow hair and broad shoulders pushing through the crowd. T he man wore a towel-like cloth, secured by magnetic tabs under the material, as a kilt. His leather sandals were made of the hide of the whale-sized riverdragon fish. Around his thickly muscled colored hornfish vertebrae. In his huge powerful hand he gripped the wooden shaft of a large waraxe of iron. His pale blue eyes were fixed on Samuel Clemens and that broad hawk-nosed face was grim. Sam Clemens screamed to the pilot. Faster! Faster! Full speed ahead! The great paddlewheels began to dig into the water more swiftly -- Chunk-chunk. Even through the fiberglas-insulated deck, the vibrations made the deck quiver. Suddenly the blond man, Erik Bloodaxe, tenth-century Viking King, was in the pilothouse. He shouted at Sam Clemens in Old Norse, Traitor! Droppings of Ratatosk! I told you  would wait along the banks of The River! You betrayed me so you could get the iron from the fallen star and build your great Riverboat! Sam fled the pilothouse and down the ladders from deck to deck and down into the dark bowels of the hold, but Erik Bloodaxe was always two steps behind. Past the colossal rotating electric motors Sam Clemens ran and then he was in the chemistry room, where the engineers were making potassium nitrate from human excrement and mixing it with sulfur and charcoal to make gunpowder. Sam grabbed hold of a lighter and a resin torch, pressed the slide and a white-hot glowing wire slid out of the case. Stop, or Til blow up the whole boat! Sam screamed. Erik had stopped, but he was swinging the big axe around and around over his head. He grinned and said. Go ahead! You haven t got the guts! You love the Riverboat more than you love anything, even your faithless but precious Livy! You wouldnt blow her up! So rm going to split you down the middle with my axe and then take the Riverboat for myself! No! No! Sam screamed. You wouldnt dare! You cant! You cant! This is my dream, my love, my passion, my life, my world! You cant. The Norseman stepped closer to him; the axe whistled over his head.  can't? Just stand there and see! Over his shoulder Sam saw a shadow. It moved forward and became a tall, faceless figure. It was X, the Mysterious Stranger, the renegade Ethical who had sent the meteorite crashing into the Rivervalley so that Sam could have iron and nickel to build his Riverboat on this mineral-poor planet. And so he could sail up The River to the North Polar Sea where the Misty Tower, the Big Grail, call it what you would, was hidden in the cold fog. And there Sam, with the eleven men chosen by X for his as yet unrevealed plan, would storm the Tower and find -- find what? Stranger! Sam called. Save me! Save me! The laughter was like a wind from the polar sea, turning his entrails to crystal. Save yourself, Sam! the Stranger said. No!' No! You promised! Sam yelled. And then his eyes were open and the last of his groans died away. Or had he dreamed that he was groaning? H e sat up. His bed was made of bamboo. The mattress was a bamboo fiber cloth stuffed with giant leaves of the irontree. The blanket was made up of five towels secured together by magnetic tabs. The bed was against the wall of a room twenty feet square. It held a desk and a round table and about a dozen chairs, all of bamboo or pine, and a fired-clay chamber pot. There were also a bamboo bucket half-full with water, a tall broad case with many pigeonholes for rolls of paper, a rack with bamboo and pine spears with flint and iron tips, yew bows and arrows, a waraxe of nickel-iron and four long steel knives. On the wall were a number of pegs from which white towels hung. On one hatstand was a naval cap, an officer's, made of leather covered with a thin white cloth. On the table was his grail, a gray metallic cylinder with a metal handle. On the desk were glass bottles containing a soot-black ink, a number of bone pens and one nickel-iron pen. The papers on the desk were of bamboo, though there were a few sheets of vellum from the inner lining of the stomach of the hornfish. Glass windows (or ports, as he called them) looked out all around the room and, as far as Sam Clemens knew, this was the only house with glass windows in IF the entire Rivervalley. Certainly, it was the only one for # miles either way from this area. The sole light came from the sky. Though it was not yet dawn, the light was a trifle brighter than that cast by the full moon on Earth. Giant stars of many colors, some so big they looked like chippedoff pieces of the moon, jampacked the heavens. Bright sheets and streamers hung between the stars, behind them, and even, seemingly, in front of some of the brightest. These were cosmic gas clouds, the like of which had never been seen by the unaided eye on Earth. The stars and the clouds made a glory that never ceased to thrill the more sensitive of the humanity along The River, Sam Clemens, smacking his lips at the sour taste of the liquor he had drunk that evening and the even sourer taste of the dream, stumbled across the floor. He opened his eyes completely when he reached the desk, picked up a lighter and applied the extended hot wire to a stone bracket, where the smoke went out through an opening at the junction of ceiling and wall. He opened a port and looked out toward The River. A year ago he would have seen only a flat plain about a mile and a half wide and covered with short, tough, brightgreen grass. Now it was a hideous mass of piled-up earth, deep pits and many buildings of bamboo and pine containing brick furnaces. These were his steel mills (socalled), his glass factory, his smelters, his cement mills, his forges, his blacksmith shops, his armories, his laboratories and his nitricand sulfuric-acid factories. A half a mile away was a high wall of pine logs enclosing the first metal boat he would build. Torches flared to his left. Even at night the men were digging out the siderite chunks, hauling up pieces of the nickel-iron. Behind him had been a forest of thousand-foot irontrees, red pine, lodgepole pine, black oak, white oak, yew trees and thick stands of bamboo. These had stood on the foothills; the hills were mostly still there but the trees, except for the irontrees, were all gone, along with the bamboo. Only the huge irontrees had withstood the steel axes of Clemens' people. The tall grasses had been cut down and their fibers chemically treated to make ropes and paper, but their roots were so tough and so tangled, that there had not been enough reason to chop through them. The labor and the materials used in chopping through the roots of the short grass of the plains to get to the metal there had been very expensive. Not in terms of money, because that did not exist, but in terms of sweat, worn-out stone and then dulled steel. Where this area had been beautiful with its many trees and bright grass and the colored blooms of the vines that covered the trees, it was now like a battlefield. It had been necessary to create ugliness to build the beautiful boat. world had planned well. There was not much erosion, even though man had stripped the land of all the vegetation he could. The iron-trees, occupying twenty out of every one hundred square feet of the foothills, stood firm. Nor could the roots of any of the plants be killed; they were so deeply buried. Sam shivered at the wet and chilly wind which always came late at night from upRiver. He shivered also at the thought of the desolation. He loved beauty and nature's order and he loved the parklike arrangement of the valley, whatever else he thought about this world. Now he had made it hideous because he had a dream. And he would have to extend that hideousness, because his mills and factories needed more wood for fuel, for paper, for charcoal. All that his state had was used up ajid he had about used up all that Cernskujo to the immediate north and Publiujo to the immediate south, would trade him. If he wanted more he would have to war on his closest neighbors or make arrangements for trading with the more distant states or those just across The River. Or else conquer them and take their wood away from them. He did not want to do that; he abhorred war in principle and could barely stand it in practice. But if he was to have his Riverboat he had to have wood as fuel for his factories. He also had to have bauxite and cryolite and platinum if he was to have aluminum generators and motors. The nearest source of all three was in Soul City, that nation twenty-six miles downRiver dominated by Elwood Hacking, who hates whites. So far, Sam had been able to trade iron weapons for bauxite, cryolite, cinnabar and platinum. Sam's own state, Parolando, needed the weapons badly. Adding one burden to the other. Hacking insisted that Parolando use its own men to mine and transport the ore. Sam sighed deeply. Why in hell hadn't the Mysterious Stranger directed ihe meteorite to fall right by the bauxite deposits? Then, when Sam and Bloodaxe's Vikings had sailed into this area immediately after the meteorite had struck, they could have claimed the land that was now Soul City for their own. When Hacking arrived, he would have been forced to join Clemens or to leave. Still, even with the Stranger's IF powers, it could not be easy to deflect a hundred-thousand-ton, iron-nickel siderite from its course and make it fall only twenty-six miles from the bauxite and other minerals. Actually the Stranger had supposed that he had hit the target on the bull's-eye. He had told Sam, before he disappeared on some unknown mission, that the minerals were upRiver, all within a seven-mile range. But he had been mistaken. And that had made Sam both glad and angry. He was angry because the minerals were not all within his reach, but he was also happy that the Ethicals could make a mistake. The Stranger called his people the Ethicals. It was they who resurrected the entire human species and all subhumans intelligent enough to have a language. The Resurrection had been accomplished by purely scientific means. The supernatural had played no part in raising -- or recreating -- the dead. All who had died between # B.C. and # A.D. had been resurrected. The only exceptions were idiots and those who had died before the age of five. The Ethicals had restored everyone whole and in excellent health, but sterile. They had rejuvenated those who needed it. And now, twenty-one years after the first day of resurrection, all looked as if they were no more than twenty-five years old. But, despite the godlike power of the Ethicals, they could make mistakes and errors. That fact did not help the humans imprisoned forever between sheer mountains # feet high in a valley about # miles wide on the average. They would be imprisoned for thousands of years, if not forever, unless Samuel Langhorne Clemens could build his Riverboat. S AM went to the unpainted pine cabinet, opened a door, and pulled out an opaque glass bottle. It held about twenty ounces of bourbon donated by people who did not drink. He downed about three ounces, winced,'snorted, slapped his chest and put the bottle back. Hah! Nothing better to start off the day with, especially when you woke up from a nightmare that should have been rejected by the Great Censor of Dreams. If, that is, the Great Censor had any love and regard for one of his favorite dream-makers, Sam Clemens. Maybe the Great Censor did not love him after all. It seemed that very few did love Sam any more. He had to do things he did not want to do in order to get the boat built. And then there was Livy, his wife on Earth for thirty-four years. He swore, caressed a nonexistent moustache, reached back into the cabinet and pulled the bottle out again. Another snort. Tears came, but whether engendered by the bourbon or the thought of Livy, he did not know. Probably, in this world of complex forces and mysterious operations -- and operators -- the tears were caused by both. Plus other things which his hindbrain did not care to let him peep into at this moment. His hindbrain would wait until his forebrain was bent over, tying its intellectual shoestrings, and would then boot the posterior of said forebrain. He strode across the bamboo mats and looked through the port window. Down there, about two hundred yards away, under the branches of the thousand-foot irontree, was a round, conicalroofed, two-room hut. Inside the bedroom would be Olivia Langdon Clemens, his wife -- his exwife -- and the long, lanky, tremendously beaked, weak-chinned Savinien de Cyrano II de Bergerac, swordsman, libertine and man-of-letters. "Livy, how could you?" Sam said. "How could you break my heart, the heart of Your Youth?" A year had passed since she had shown up with Cyrano de Bergerac. He had been shocked, more shocked than he had ever been in his seventy-four years on Earth and his twenty-one years on the Riverworld. But he had recovered from it. Or he would have recovered if he had not gotten another shock, though a lesser one. Nothing could exceed the impact of the first. After all, he could not expect Livy to go without a man for twentyone years. Not when she was young and beautiful again and still passionate and had no reasonable hope of ever seeing him again. He had lived with a half-dozen women himself, and he could not expect chastity or faithfulness from her. But he had expected that she would drop her mate like a monkey drops a heated penny when she found him again. Not so. She loved de Bergerac. He had seen her almost every day since the night she had first come out of the mists of The River. They spoke politely enough and sometimes, when the atmosphere seemed just right, they cracked their reserve and laughed and joked just as they had on. Earth. Sometimes, briefly, but undeniably, their eyes told each other that the old love was vibrating between them. Then, when he felt that he had broken out with longing, just like the hives, so he told himself later, laughing while he felt like crying, he had stepped toward her, despite himself, and she had stepped back to Cyrano's side if he happened to be there or looked around for him if he wasn't. Every night she was with that dirty, uncouth, big-nosed, weakchinned, Adam's-appled, but IF colorful, strong-minded, witty, vigorous, talented, scary Frenchman. The virile frog, Sam muttered. He could imagine him leaping, croaking with lust, toward the white, blackly outlined, curving figure of Livy, leaping, croaking... He shuddered. This was no good. Even when he brought women up here secretly -- though he did not have to hide anything -- hecould not quite forget her. Even when he chewed dreamgum he could not forget her. If anything, she sailed into the drug-tossed sea of his mind more strongly, blown by the winds of desire. The good ship Livy, white sails bellying out, the trim cleancut curving hull... And he heard her laughter, that lovely laughter. That seemed to be the hardest thing to endure. He walked away and looked out through the fore ports. He stood by the oak pedestal and the bigspoked riverboat's wheel he had carved. This room was his "pilothouse" and the two rooms behind made up the "texas." The whole building was on the side of the hill nearest to the plain. It was on thirty-foot stilts and could be entered through a staircase or ladder (to use a nautical term) on the starboard side or through a port directly from the hill behind the rear chamber of the texas. On top of the pilothouse was a large bell, the only metal bell in the world, as far as he knew. As soon as the waterclock in the corner struck six, he would clang the big bell. And the dark valley would slowly come to life. H M ists still overhung The River and the edge of the banks, but he could see the huge squat mushroom shape of the grailstone a mile and a half down the slope of the plain just by the water's edge. A moment later, he saw a boat, toy size, emerge from the mists. Two figures jumped out and pulled the dugout onto the shore, then ran off to the right. The light from the skies was bright enough for Sam to see them, though he sometimes lost them when buildings intervened. After going around the two-story pottery factory they cut straight into the hills. He lost them then but it seemed that they were heading for John Plantegenet's log "palace." So much for the sentinel system of Parolando. Every quarter mile on The River's front was guarded by a hut on thirty-foot stilts with four men on duty. If they saw anything suspicious, they were to beat on their drums, blow their bone horns and light their torches. Two men slipping out of the fog to carry news to King John, exKing John, of England? Fifteen minutes later Sam saw a shadow running between shadows. The rope attached to the small bell just inside the entrance rang. He looked through the starboard port. A white face looked up at Grevel, famous wool merchant, citizen of London, died in #I in the Year Of Our Lord. There were no sheep or, in fact, any mammals other than man along The River. But the ex-merchant had shown great aptitude for espionage, and he loyed to stay up all night and skulk around. Sam beckoned to him; Grevel ran up the "ladder" and entered after Sam had unbarred the thick oak door. Sam said, in Esperanto, Salu ton, leutenanto Grevel. Kio estas? (Translation: "Hello, Lieutenant Grevel. What's the matter?") Grevel said, "'"'Bonan matenon, Estro. Ciu grasa fripono, Rego Johano, estas jus akceptita duo spionoj. " (Translation: "Good morning. Boss. That fat rascal. King John, has just received two spies.") Neither Sam nor Grevel could understand each other's English, but they got along very well in Esperanto, except now and then. Sam grinned. Bill Grevel had let himself down from the limb of an irontree, passing directly over a sentry, and down a rope onto the edge of the roof of the two-story building. He had passed through the bedroom, where three women slept, and then crawled to the top of the staircase. John and his spies, a twentieth-century Italian and a sixth-century Hungarian, were at a table below Grevel. The two had reported the results of their trip upRiver. John was furious and justly so, from his viewpoint. Sam, hearing Grevel's report, also became furious. "He tried to assassinate Arthur of New Brittany? What is that man trying to do, ruin all of us?" He paced back and forth, stopped, lit a big cigar and began pacing again. Once he stopped to invite Grevel to a bite of cheese and a glass of wine. It was one of the ironies of Chance or, perhaps, of the Ethicals, for who knew what things they arranged, that King John of England and the nephew he had murdered most foully should have been located within thirty-two miles of each other. Arthur, Prince of Brittany of dead Earth, had organized the peoples among whom he found himself into a state he called New Brittany. There were very few old Bretons in the ten-mile long territory he ruled, but that did not matter. New Brittany it was. It had taken eight months before Arthur had discovered that his uncle was his neighbor. He had IF traveled incognito to Parolando to verify with his own eyes the identity of John, the uncle who had slit his throat and dropped his weighted body into the Seine. Arthur wanted to capture John and keep him alive for as long as possible under exquisite torture. possibly forever, from getting his revenge. John, murdered, would awake the next day some place thousands of miles away on The River. But Arthur had sent emissaries demanding that John be given up to him. These demands had been rejected, of course, though only Sam's sense of honor and his fear of John, kept him from agreeing to Arthur's demands. Now John had sent four men to assassinate Arthur. Two had been killed; the others had escaped with minor wounds. This would mean invasion. Arthur not only had wanted revenge on John, he would like to get possession of the meteorite iron.-Brittany, a fourteen-mile stretch of the right bank of The River was known as Chernsky's Land, or in Esperanto, dernskujo. Chernsky, a sixteenth-century Ukrainian cavalry colonel, had refused an alliance with Arthur. But the nation immediately to New Brittany's north was governed by lyeyasu. He was a powerful and ambitious person, the man who had established the Tokugawa Shogunate in # with its capital at Yedo, later called Tokyo. Sam's spies said that the Japanese and the Breton had met six times. Moreover, just to the north of lyeyasujo was Kleomanujo. This was governed by Cleomenes, a king of Sparta and half-brother to that Leonidas who held the pass at Thermoplyae. Cleomenes had met three times with lyeyasu and Arthur. Just south of Parolando was an eleven-mile stretch called Publia, after its king, Publius Crassus. Publius had been an officer in Caesar's cavalry during the Gallic campaigns. He was inclined to be friendly, although he extracted a big price for letting Sam cut down his timber. South of Publia was Tifonujo, ruled by Tai Fung, one of Kublai Khan's captains, killed on Earth when he fell drunk off a horse. And south of Tifonujo was Soul City, headed by El wood Hacking and Milton Firebrass. Sam stopped and glared from under bushy brows at Grevel. 'The hell of it. Bill, is there isn't much I can do. If I tell John I know about his trying to murder Arthur, who may deserve murder, for all I know, then John knows that I've got spies inside the house. And he'll just deny everything, ask that I bring his accusers forth -- and you know what would happen to them, to you.'" Grevel paled. Sam said, "Start your blood running again. I won't do it. No. The only thing to do is to keep quiet and watch for developments. But I'm choking up to here with keeping quiet. That man is the most despicable I ever met -- and if you knew my vast range of acquaintances, including publishers, you would feel the depth of my words." "John could be a tax-collector," Grevel said, as if he had plumbed the depths of insult. And he had, for him. "It was a bad daren I had to agreeto take John on as a partner," Sam muttered, blowing out smoke as he turned toward Grevel. "But if I hadn't taken him in. I'd have been robbed of my chance at the iron." thanking him. The skies just above the mountains across The River were paling. Soon the entire vault would be rosy on the edges and blue above, but it would be some time before the sun cleared the mountain. Before then, the grailstones would be discharging. He washed his face in a basin, combed his thick bush of reddish hair straight back, applied the toothpaste with the tip of his finger to his teeth and gums, and spat. Then he fastened a belt with four sheaths and a bag dangling from a strap and put it around his waist. He placed a long towel around his shoulders as a cape, picked up a cane of oak shod with iron and, with the other hand, picked up the grail. He went down the stairs. The grass was still wet. It rained every night at three o'clock for a half-hour and the valley did not dry until after the sun came up. If it were not for the absence of disease germs and viruses, half the valley's humans would have died of pneumonia and flu long ago. Sam was young and vigorous again, but he still did not like to exercise, As he walked, he thought of the little railway he would like to build from his house to the edge of The River. But that would be too restrictive. Why not build an automobile with a motor that burned wood alcohol? People began joining him; he was kept busy with 'Saluton! and 'Bonan Matenon!" At the end of his walk, he gave his grail to a man to put on a depression on the top of the gray granite mushroomshaped rock. About six hundred of the gray cylinders were placed in the depression and the crowd retreated to a respectful distance. Fifteen minutes later, the rock erupted with a roar. Blue flames soared twenty-five feet high and IF thunder echoed from the mountain. The appointed grail keepers for the day got onto the rock and passed the cylinders around. Sam took his back to the pilothouse, wondering on the way why he did not delegate someone to carry his grail down for him. The truth was, a man was so dependent on the grail, he just could not trust it out of his sight. Back in the house, he opened the lid. In six containers in snapdown racks were breakfast and various goodies. The grail had a false bottom in which were concealed an energymatter converter and programed menus. This morning he got bacon and eggs, toast with butter and jam, a glass of milk, a slice of cantaloupe, ten cigarettes, a marihuana stick, a cube of dreamgum, a cigar and a cup of some delicious liqueur. He settled down to eat with gusto and got, instead, a bad taste. Looking out through the starboard port (so he wouldn't see into Cyrano's door), he saw a youth on his knees before his hut. The fellow was praying, his eyes closed, his hands church-steepled. He wore only a kilt and a spiral bone from a Riverfish suspended by a leather string around his neck. His hair was dark blond, his face was broad and his body was muscular. But his ribs were beginning to show. The praying man was Hermann Goering, a missionary of the Church of the Second Chance. Sam swore and reared up from his chair, knocking it backward, picked it up and moved his breakfast from his desk to the big round table in the center of the room. The fellow had spoiled his appetite more than once. If there was one thing Sam could not stand, it was an ex-sinner, and Hermann Goering had sinned more than most and was now, by way of compensation, holier than most. Or so it seemed to Sam, though Goering claimed that he was the lowliest of the low -- in a sense. Take your damned arrogant humility away, Sam had said. Or at least take it downwind... If it had not been for the Magna Carta which Sam had drawn up (over King John's protests, thus repeating history), Sam would have kicked Goering and his followers out long ago. Well, at least a week ago. But the Carta, the constitution of the state of Parolando, the most democratic constitution in the history of mankind, gave total religious freedom and total freedom of speech. Almost total, anyway. There had to be some limitations. But his own document forbade Sam to stop the missionaries of the Church of the Second Chance from preaching. Yet if Goering continued to protest, to make speeches, to convert more to his doctrine of pacifist resistance Sam Clemens would never get his Riverboat. Hermann Goering had made a symbol of the boat; he said that it represented man's vanity, greed, lust for violence and disregard of the Creator's designs for the world of man. Man should not build riverboats, he should built more stately mansions of the soul. All man needed now was a roof over his head to keep off the rain and thin walls for a little privacy now and then. Man no longer had to earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. His food and.drink were given to him with nothing expected in return, not even gratitude. Man had time to determine his destiny. But man must not transgress on others, not rob them of their possessions, their love or their dignity. He must respect others and himself. But he could not do this through delivery, robbery, violence, contempt. He must... S AM turned away. Goering had some fine sentiments to which Sam subscribed. But Goering was wrong if he thought that licking the boots of the people who had put them here was going to lead to any Utopia or salvation for their souls. Humanity had been tricked again; it was being used, misused and abused. Everything, the resurrection, the rejuvenation, freedom from disease, free food and liquor and smokes, freedom from hard work or economic necessity, everything was an illusion, a candy bar to lead baby mankind into some dark alley where... Where what? Sam did not know. But The Mysterious Stranger had said that mankind was being tricked in the cruelest hoax of all, even crueler than the first hoax, that of life on Earth. Man had been resurrected and put on this planet as the subject of a tremendous scholarly study. That was all. And when the studies were completed Man would go down into darkness and oblivion once more. Cheated again. But what did the Stranger have to gain by telling this to certainselected men? Why had he chosen a small number to help him defeat his fellow Ethicals? What was the Stranger really after? Was he lying to Sam and Cyrano and Odysseus and the others whom Sam had not yet met? Sam Clemens did not know. He was as much in The Great Dark as he had been on Earth. But he did know one thing for certain. He wanted that Riverboat. The mists had cleared away; breakfast time was over. He checked the water clock and then rang the big bell on the pilothouse. As soon as it had ceased tolling the wooden whistles of the sergeants IF ten-mile stretch of the Rivervalley known as Parolando the whistles shrilled. Then the drums began to beat and Parolando went to work. m T here were # people in the state and the Riverboat would be taking only one hundred and twenty. Twenty of these already knew for sure they would be going. Sam and Joe Miller, Lothar von Richthofen, Van Boom, de Bergerac, Odysseus, three engineers and King John and their hutmates, had been promised. The rest would know whether or not they had worked for nothing a few days before the boat sailed. At that time, the names would be written on slips of paper and placed inside a big wire cage. The cage would be whirled around and around, and then Sam would stop it, and, blindfolded, would reach in and pull out, one after the other, one hundred names. And these lucky ones would be the crew of the Not For Hire. The Not For Hire had about # miles to travel, if The Stranger could be believed. Averaging about # miles every twenty-four hours, it would take over forty-one years to reach the end of The River. But it would not average that much, of course. The crew would have to put into shore for extensive vacations on land and there would be repairs to be made. In fact, the Riverboat might wear out, although Sam planned on taking many spare parts. Once the boat was on its way it could not put back for parts or pick them up anywhere else. There would be no metal of any consequence from this place on. It was strange to think that he would be about one hundred and forty years old when he got to the headwaters of The River. But what was that when he had thousands of years of youth to go? He looked through the bow ports. The plain was full of people streaming down from the hills to the factories. Behind him the hills would be alive with others on their way to the factories in the hills. And a small army would be working on the big dam to the northwest, near the base of the mountains. A concrete wall was being constructed between two steep hills to dam up the water flowing from a spring near the top of the mountain. When the lake behind the dam was full, its overflow would be used to drive electrical generators to power the mills. At present the electrical energy needed came from a grailstone. A giant stepdown transformer of aluminum took the energy three times a day, sent it through brobdingnagian aluminum wires to a two-story device known as the ba I  tacitor. This was a late twentiethcentury electronic discovery that could accept hundreds of kilovolts in a hundredth of a microsecond and could discharge it at any rate from a tenth of a volt to one hundred kilovolts. It was the prototype of the batacitor that would be put on the Riverboat. At present the energy was chiefly used in a cutting device made by van Boom that sliced through the pieces of nickel-iron dug up on the plain -- the energy could also be moderated to melt the metal. The aluminum for the wires and the batacitor had been laboriously and expensively made from aluminum silicate derived from the clay under the grass along the base of the mountains. But that supply had run out and now the only economically feasible source was in Soul City. Sam sat down at his desk, pulled out a drawer and removed a tall book bound in fish-bladder leather; the pages were bamboo-fiber paper. It was his diary, The Memoirs of a Lazarus, For the time being he was using mk made of water and tannic acid from oak bark and carbon from finely ground charcoal in suspension to write down the day-by-day happenings and his reflections. When the technology of Parolando was improved enough he would use an electronic recorder that van Boom had promised him. He had no sooner started writing than the drums began beating. The big bass drums represented dashes; the small soprano drums, dots. The code was Morse; the language, Esperanto. Von Richthofen would be landing soon. S AM stood up to look out again. A half a mile away was the bamboo catamaran on which Lothar von Richthofen had sailed downRiver only ten days ago. Through the starboard ports Sam saw a squat figure with tawny hair coming out of the gateway of King John's log palace. Behind him came bodyguards and sycophants. King John was making sure that von Richthofen did not give Sam Clemens any secret messages from Elwood Hacking. The ex-monarch of England, present co-ruler of Parolando, wore a kilt with red and black checks, a poncholike arrangement of towels and knee-length, red-leather Riverdragon boots. Around his thick waist was a wide belt with a number of sheaths containing steel daggers, a short sword and a steel axe. One hand held a steel rod coronet, one of many sources of contention between Sam and King John. Sam did not want to waste metal on such useless anachronisms, but John had insisted and Sam had given in. IF Sam found some satisfaction in thinking about the name of his little nation. Parolando in Esperanto meant pair land and was so called because two men governed it. But Sam had not mentioned to John that another translation could be Twain Land, John followed a hard-dirt path around a long, low factory building and then he was at the foot of the staircase of Sam's quarters. A bodyguard, a big thug named Sharkey, pulled the bell rope and the little bell tinkled. Sam stuck his head out and shouted, "'Come aboard, John!" John looked up at him from pale blue eyes and motioned to Sharkey to precede him. John was cautious about assassins and he had reason to be. He was also resentful about having had to come to Sam -- but he had known that von Richthofen would report to Sam first. Sharkey entered, inspected Sam's pilothouse and looked through the three rooms of the texas, Sam heard a growl, as low and powerful as a lion's, from the rear bedroom. Sharkey came back swiftly and closed the door. Sam smiled and said, "Joe Miller may be sick, but he can still eat ten Polish prizefighters for breakfast and call for a second helping." Sharkey did not reply. He signaled through the port that John could come up. the fabulous riverboat The catamaran was beached now and the tiiiy figure of von Richthofen was coming across the plain, holding his grail in one hand and the wooden winged ambassadorial staff in the other. Through the other port Sam could see the lanky figure of de Bergerac leading a platoon toward the south wall. Livy was not in sight. John entered. Sam said, "Aoiaf matenon, JohanoV" It galled John that Sam refused to address him as Via Rega Mosto -- Your Majesty -- in private. La Konsulo -- the Consul -- was their correct title and even that came reluctantly from Sam's lips. Sam encouraged others to call him La EstrOy The Boss, because that angered John even more. John grunted and sat down at the round table. Another bodyguard, a big dark proto-Mongolian with massive bones and immensely powerful muscles, Zaksksromb, who presumably had died about # B.C., lit up a huge brown cigar for John. Zak, as he was known, was the strongest man in Parolando, with the exception of Joe Miller. And it could be argued that Joe Miller was not a man -- or, at least, certainly not homo sapiens, S AM wished Joe would get out of bed, because Zak made him nervous. But Joe was sedating himself with dreamgum. Two days ago a chunk of siderite had slipped from a crane's tongs as Joe was passing beneath it. The operator swore it had been an accident, but Sam had his suspicions. John would want to get rid of Sam's bodyguard, who was incorruptible and who could scare off a legion of assassins just ,by booing at them. Sam puffed on his cigar and said, "Hear anything about your nephew lately?" John did not start, but his eyes did widen a trifle. He looked at Sam across the table. "No, should #?" "I just wondered. I've been thinking about asking Arthur down for a conference. There's no reason why you two should be trying to kill each other. This isn't Earth, you know. Why can't we call off old feuds? What if you did drop him off in a sack into the estuary? Let bygones be bygones. We could use his wood and we need more limestone for calcium carbonate and magnesium. He's got plenty." John glared, then hooded his eyes and smiled. Tricky John, Sam thought. Smooth John. Despicable John. "To get wood and limestone we'd have to pay with steel arms," John said. "I'm not about to permit my dear nephew to get his hands on more steel." "Just thought I'd broach the subject to you," Sam said, "because at noon -- " John stiffened. "Yes?" "Well, I thought I'd bring up the subjt to the Council. We might have a vote on it." John relaxed. "Oh?" Sam thought. You think you're safe. You've got Pedro Ansdrez and Frederick Rolfe on your side and a fivetothree vote in the Council is a nay vote... Once again he contemplated suspending the Magna Carta so that things could be done that needed to be done. But that might mean civil war and that could mean the end of the dream. He paced back and forth while John described in a loud voice and sickening detail his latest conquest of his latest blonde. Sam tried to ignore the words; he still got mad because the man boasted, although by now any woman wKo accepted John had only herself to blame. T he little bell tinkled. Lothar von Richthofen entered. He was a well-built youth with long blond hair and handsome, somewhat Slavic, features. He looked like a less stocky and better looking Goering. The two had known each other well during World War I, since both had served under Baron Manfred won Richthofen, Lothar's older brother. Sam, of IF course, having died in #, knew Sam felt faint. He leaned on the about the Great War only by heartable until things came back into say. but Lothar had painted so focus. Then he said, "M#I take a many word pictures that Sam shot of Kentucky courage mythought he could visualize those self.'" days. Lothar was a wild, brash and Von Richthofen continued. "'It essentially likable person but seems that Hacking isn't too hapthis morning his smiles and his py with the makeup of his state, debonair bearing were gone. It's one-fourth Harlem blacks who "What's the bad news?" Sam died between I# and I #, you said. know, and one-eighth eighteenthLothar took the cup of bourbon century Dahomeyan blacks. But that Sam offered, downed it and he has a nonblack population of said, "Sinjoro Hacking has just one-fourth fourteenth-century about finished putting up fortiWahhabi Arabs, fanatics who fications. Soul City has walls still claim that Mohammed is twelve feet high and ten thick on all their prophet and they're here just fronts. Hacking was nasty to me, for a short trial period. Then very nasty. He called me an ofejo there is the quarter that is thirand a honkio, words new to me. I teenth-century Asiatic Indian did not care to ask him for an exDravidian, black-skinned Caucaplanation." sians, and one-eighth of people 'Ofejo might be from the Engfrom anywhere and anytime. A lish ofay, Sam said, "but I never slight majority of these is twentiheard the other word. Honkio? eth-century." "You'll hear those words a lot in Sam nodded. Though the resurthe future," Lothar said, "if you rected humanity consisted of perdeal with Hacking. And you will, sons who lived from # B.C. Hacking finally got down to busito # A.D., one-fourth had been ness after spewing out a torrent born after I # A. D. of abuse, mostly about my Nazi "Hacking wants his Soul City to ancestors. I never heard of the be almost entirely black. He said Nazis on Earth, you know, since I that he had believed that integradied in a plane crash in I #. He tion was possible when he lived on seemed to be angry about someEarth. The young whites of his day thing -- maybe his anger had nothwere free of the racial prejudices ing to do with me originally. But of their elders and he had known the essence of his speech was that hope. But there aren't too many of he might cut off the bauxite and his former white contemporaries other minerals." in his land. And the Wahhabi the fabulous riverboat Arabs are driving him out of his mind. Hacking became a Moslem on Earth, did you know that? First he was a Black Muslim, an American home-grown variety. Then he became a real Moslem, made a pilgrimage to Mecca and was quite certain that the Arabs, even if they were white, were not racists. "But the massacre of the Sudanese blacks by the Sudanese Arabs and the history of Arabic enslavement of blacks disturbed him. Anyway, these nineteenthcentury Wahhabi are not racists -- they're just religious fanatics and too much trouble. He didn't say so, but I was thereten days and I saw enough. The Wahhabis want to convert Soul City to their brand of Moslemism and if they can't do it peacefully, they'll do it bloodily. Hacking wants to get rid of them and of the Dravidians, who seem to regard themselves as superior. Anyway, Hacking will continue to furnish us bauxite if we will send him all our black citizens in return for his Wahhabi and Dravidian citizens. Plus an increased amount of steel arms. Plus a larger share in the raw siderite." Sam groaned. King John spat on the floor. Sam scowled and said, ""Merdo, Johano! Not even a Plantagenet gobs on my floor! Use the spittoon or get out!" He forced him.self to push down his rage and frustration as King John bristled. Now was not a time to bring about a confrontation. The vainglorious ex-monarch would never back down on the spitting issue, which was actually trifling. Sam gestured self-deprecatingly and said, "Forget about it, John. Spit all you want to!" But he could not resist adding: "As long as I have the same privilege in your house, of course." chocolate into his mouth. He used the growling, grinding voice that indicated that he, too, was very angry but was imposing great self-control. "This Saracen, Hacking, gets too much. I say we have kissed his black hand long enough. His demands have slowed down the building of the ship -- " "Boat, John," Sam said. "It's a boat, not a ship." ""Boato, smoato. I say, let us conquer Soul City, put the citizens to the sword and seize the minerals. Then we will be able to make aluminum on the spot. In fact, we could build the boat there. And, to make sure that we are not interfered with and have the wood needed, we should conquer all the states between us and Soul City." Powermad John. Yet, Sam was inclined to think that he might, for once, be right. In a month or so Parolando would IF have the weapons that would enable it to do just what John was proposing. Except that Publia was friendly and their bills were not high, and Tifonujo, though it demanded much, had permitted itself to be stripped of trees. It was possible that both states planned to use the nickel-iron they got for their wood to make weapons so that they could attack Parolando. The savages across The River were probably planning the same thing. "'Tm not through," von Richthofen said. "Hacking made his demands about the trading of citizens on a one-to-one basis. But he won't come to any agreement unless we send a black to deal with him. He says he was insulted when you sent me, since I'm a Prussian and a Junker to boot. But he'll overlook that, since we didn't know any better, if we send him a member of the Council the next time. One who's black." Sam's cigar almost fell out. "We don't have a black Councilman." "Exactly. What Hacking is saying is that we had better elect one." John passed both hands through his shoulder-length tawny hair and then stood up. His pale blue eyes were fiery under the lion-colored eyebrows. "This Saracen thinks he can tell us how to conduct our internal affairs. I say, war!" Sam said, "Now, just a minute. Your Majesty. You have good reason to be mad, as the old farmer said -- then fell in. But the truth is, we can defend ourselves quite well -- but we cannot invade and occupy any large territory." "Occupy?" John shouted. "We will slaughter half and chain the other half!" "The world changed much after you died, John -- uh. Your Majesty. Admittedly there are other forms of slavery than the outright form, but I don't want to get into an argument about definitions. There is no use making a fuss, as the fox said to the hens. We just appoint another Councilman, pro tern. And we send him to Hacking." "There is no provision in the Magna Carta for a pro tern Councilman," Lothar said. "We change the Carta," Sam said. "That'll take a popular election." John snorted disgust. He and Sam Clemens had gone through too many blazing arguments about the rights of the people. Sam held firm on these points, and Sam was La Estro, The Boss, to the greatest number of citizens, even if the two Consuls theoretically held equal powers. "There's one other thing," Lothar said, still smiling but with an exasperated note in his voice. '"Hacking asks that Firebrass be allowed to visit here for a tour of inspection. Firebrass is especially interested in seeing our airplane." care if he sends a spy!" "I don't know' Sam said. "Firebrass is Hacking's chief of staff. He might get a different idea of us. He's an engineer -- I think he had a Ph.D., too, in physics. I've heard about him. What did you find out, Lothar?" "He impressed me very much," von Richthofen said. "He was born in nineteen seventy-four in Syracuse, New York. His father was black and his mother was half Irish and half-Iroquois Indian. He was in the second party to land on Mars and the first to orbit Jupiter -- " Sam was thinking, men really did that. Landed on the Moon and then Mars. Right out of Jules Verne and Frank Reade, Jr. Fantastic, yet no more fantastic than this world. Or, indeed, than the mundane world of #. None of it could be explained in a manner to satisfy any reasonable man. It was all incredible. "We'll put it up to the Council, today, John," Sam said. "If you have no objection. We'll have a general election on the pro tern Councilman. I personally favor Uzziah Cawber." "Cawber was a slave, wasn't he?" Lothar said. "I don't know. Hacking said he didn't want any Uncle Toms sent." Once a slave, always a slave, Sam thought. Even when a slave revolts, kills and is killed as a protest against his slaveryresurrected, he still does not think of himself as a free man. He was born and raised in a world soaked with the rotten essence of slavedom and every thought he thinks, every move he makes, is stained with slavery, subtly altered with slavery, Cawber was born in #I in Montgomery, Alabama, He was taught to read and write. He served in the house of his master as his secretary. He killed his master's son in #, escaped and went West and became a cowboy, of all tnings, and then a miner. He was killed with a Sioux spear in #; the ex-slave killed by a man about to become a slave, Cawber is delighted with this world -- or claims to be -- because no man can enslave him here or keep him enslaved. But he is the slave of his own mind and of the reactions of his nerves. Even when he holds his head high he will jump if somebody cracks a whip and his head will bow before he can stop it... Why, oh, why, had man been brought back to life? Men and women were ruined by what had happened on Earth and they would never be able to undo the damage. The Second Chancers IF claimed a man could change, entirely change. But the Second Chancers were a pack of dreamgummers. 'If Hacking calls Cawber an Uncle Tom, Cawber will kill him," Sam said. "I say, let's send him." John's tawny eyebrows rose. Sam knew what he was thinking. Perhaps he could use Cawber, one way or another. Sam looked at the waterclock. "Time for the inspection tour. Care to come along, John? I'll be with you in a minute," and he sat down at his desk to make a few more entries in his diary. That gave John the chance to leave first, as befitted the ex-Kiftg of England and a good part of France. Sam thought it was ridiculous to worry about who preceded whom, yet he disliked John so much he could not bear to let him gain even this minor victory. Rather than argue about it, or just walk out ahead of him, and so cause John to throw a fit, he pretended he had work to do. IV S AM caught up with the group, which included the six Councilmen, just outside the nitric-acid factory. They went through the factories swiftly. The stinks emanating from the nitric and sulfuric acids, from the destructive distillation of wood to make alcohol, acetone, creosote, turpentine and acetic acid, the formaldehyde vats and the treatment of human excrement and lichen scraped off the mountains to extract potassium nitrate -- these, combined, were enough to make a hyena lose its breakfast. They were roasted and deafened in the steel mill and the grinding mills and the forges and blacksmith shops. They were covered with a white dust in the limestone mills and magnesium factory. In the aluminum factory they were again roasted, deafened -- and stunk out. The gunsmith shop up in the hills was not operating at the moment. Except for distant noises, it was quiet. But it was not beautiful. The earth had been dug up, the trees cut down and smoke from the factories up the River was black and acrid along the mountains. Van Boom, the late twentiethcentury, half Zulu, half Afrikaans chief engineer, met them. He was a handsome man with a dark bronze skin and curly hair. He stood about six-three and weighed about two hundred and fifty. He had been born in # in a ditch during The Bloody Years. He greeted them cordially enough (he liked Sam and tolerated John), but he did not smile as usual. "It's ready," he said, "but I want my objections recorded. It's a nice toy and makes a lot of noise and looks impressive and will kill a man. But it's wasteful and inefficient." "You make it sound like a Congressman," Sam said. Van Boom led them into the high doorway of the bamboo building, where a steel handgun lay on a table. Van Boom picked it up and even in his big hand the gun was huge. He strode past the others and out into the light of the sun. Sam was exasperated. He had held out his hand for the gun and the fellow had ignored him. If Van Boom intended to demonstrate it outside, why hadn't he said so in the first place? "Engineers," Sam muttered. Then he shrugged. You might as well hit a Missouri mule between the eyes with your pinkie as try to change Van Boom's ways. Van Boom held up the gun so that the sunshine twinkled against the silvery gray metal. "This is the Mark I pistol," he said. "Called so because The Boss invented it." Sam's anger melted like ice in a Mississippi River thaw. "It's a breech-loading, singleshot, flintlock hand weapon with a rifled barrel and a breakdown action." He held the gun in his right hand and said, "You load it so. You press forward the lock switch on the left side of the barrel. This releases the breech lock. You then press down the barrel with the left hand. This action forces the trigger guard into the grip, where the guard acts as a lever to cock the hammer." He reached into a bag strapped to his belt and removed a large brown hemispherical object. "This is a bakelite or phenol-formaldehyde-resin bullet. It is sixty caliber. You press the bullet, so, until it engages the lands of the barrel." He removed from his bag a shiny package with black contents. "This is a charge of black gunpowder wrapped in cellulose nitrate. Some time in the future,., we'll have cordite instead of gunpowder. If we use this gun, that is. Now, I insert the load into the chamber with the primer end first. The primer is a twist of nitrate paper impregnated with gunpowder. Then I lift the barrel with my left hand, thus, locking it into place. The Mark I is now ready to fire. But, for emergency, if the primer does not ignite, you can pour priming powder into the touchhole just forward of the rear sight. In case of misfire, the gun may be cocked with the right thumb. Note that this flash vent on the right side of the action shield protects the shooter's face." wooden target and had inserted IF it in a frame on four legs. The target was about twenty yards away. Van Boom turned toward it, held out the gun, clenched both hands and sighted along the front and rear sights. "Get behind me, gentlemen," he said. "The heat of the passage through the air will burn off the surface of the bullet and leave a thin trail of smoke which you may be able to see. The plastic bullet has to be of such large caliber because of its light weight. But this increases the wind resistance. If we decide to use this gun -- which I definitely am against -- we might increase the caliber to .# in the Mark II. The effective range is about fifty yards, but the accuracy is not good beyond thirty yards and nothing to brag about within that range." The flint was in the hammer. When Van Boom would pull the trigger, the hammer would fall and scrape along the file-like surface of the frizzen. The frizzen covered the priming pan and should be knocked forward by the flint, uncovering the primer twist of the powder charge. There was a click as the sear let the hammer go, a flash as the primer twist burned -- and a booming. The click-flash-boom took almost as long as it would take to say each word and Van Boom had had time between the click and the boom to bring the gun back into line after it had been jarred away by the impact of the heavy hammer and flint. The bullet did leave a very faint trail of smoke, quickly dissipated by the fifteen-mile-an-hour wind. Sam, looking past Van Boom's arm, could see the bullet curve out and then back, carried by the wind. But Van Boom must have been practicing, because the bullet struck near the bull's eye. It weht halfway into the soft pine, shattered and left a large hole in the wood. "The bullet won't penetrate deeply into a man," Van Boom said, "but it will leave a large hole. And if it hits near bone, the fragments should break the bone." The next hour was spent busily and happily with the Consuls and Councilmen taking turns shooting. King John was especially delighted, though perhaps a little awed, because he had never seen a gun before. His first experience with gunpowder had come several years after he had been resurrected and he had seen only bombs and wooden rockets. At last Van Boom said, "If you keep up, gentlemen, you will exhaust our supply of bullets -- and it takes a lot of labor and materials to make these bullets. Which is one reason why I object to making any more. My other reasons are: one, the gun is accurate only at close range; two, it takes so long to load and shoot that a good bowman could drop three pistol handlers while they're loading and stay outside the effective range of the guns. Moreover, a plastic bullet isn't recoverable, whereas an arrow is." Sam said, "That's a lot of nonsense! The mere fact that we would have these guns would demonstrate our technological and military superiority. We'd scare the enemy half to death before the battle started. Also, you forget that it takes a long time to train a good bowman, but anyone can shoot one of these after a relatively short lesson." "True," Van Boom aid. "But could they hit anyone? Besides, I was thinking of making steel crossbows. They can't be handled as fast as longbows, but they don't require any more training than guns do and the bolts are recoverable. And they're a hell of a lot more deadly than these noisy stinking gadgets." "No sir," Sam said. "No, sir. I insist that we make at least two hundred of these. We'll outfit a new group, the Parolando Pistoleers. They'll be the terror of The River -- you watch them; you'll see!" F or a change King John was on Sam's side. He stated that the first two pistols should go to Sam and to himself and the next dozen to their bodyguards. Then the new group could be organized and trained. Sam was grateful for the backing, but he told himself to check on the men who formed the Pistoleers. He did not want it made up largely of men loyal to John. Van Boom made no effort to hide his disgust. "I'll tell you what. I'll take a good yew bow and twelve arrows and stand fifty yards away. At a signal all eight of you can advance on me, firing at will with your Mark I's -- and I'll drop all eight of you before you get close enough to hit me. Is it a deal? I'm "Don't be childish," Sam said. Van Boom rolled his eyes upward. "'m childish? You're jeopardizing Parolando -- and your boat -- because you want guns to play with!" "Just as soon as the guns are made you can start making all the bows you want," Sam said. "Look! We'll make armor, too, for the Pistoleers! That should dispose of your objections! Why didn't I think of that before? Why, our men will be dressed up in steel that'll repel the Stone Age weapons of the enemy as if they were straws. Let the enemy shoot his yew bows with his flint-tipped arrows. They'll bounce off the steel and the Pistoleers can take their time and blow the enemy into the next county!" IF "You forget that weVe had to barter our ore and even metal weapons for wood and other materials we need' Van Boom said. 'The enemy will have arrows with steel tips that can drive through armor. Don't forget Crecy and Agincourt." "There's just no dealing with you," Sam said. "You must be half Dutch -- you're so stubborn." "If your thinking is representative of the thinking of white men, then I'm glad I'm half Zulu," Van Boom said. "Don't get huffy," Sam replied. "Congratulations on the gun. Tell you what, we'll call it the Van Boom-Mark I. How's that?" "I'd just as soon not have my name attached to it," the engineer said. "So be it. I'll make your two hundred guns. But I'd like to make an improved version. You know, the Mark II we talked about?" "Let's make two hundred of these first, then we'll start on the Mark II," Sam said. "We don't want to mess around so long trying to get the perfect weapon that we suddenly find we don't have any at all. Still -- " He talked for a while about the Mark #. He had a passion for mechanical gadgets. On Earth he had invented a number of things, all of which were going to make him a fortune. And there was the Paige typesetting machine, into which he had sunk -- and it had sunk -- all the wealth he had made from his books. Sam thought of the typesetting monster and how that wonderful contraption had bankrupted him. For a second, Paige and Van Boom were one and he felt guilty and a little panicky. about the materials and the labor put into the AM P-#, their aerial machine prototype. Sam ignored him. He went with the others to the hjcingar, which was on the plains about a mile north of Sam's quarters. The plains had been left undisturbed in front of the bamboo hangar so that the plane, when it flew, would have a narrow landing strip. The craft was only partly finished but would look almost as skeletal and frail when ready to fly as it did now. "It's similar to some of the planes built in nineteen-ten," von Richthofen said. "I'll be exposed from my waist up when I sit in the cockpit. The whole machine looks more like a metal dragonfly than anything else. The main object is to test out the efficiency of the woodalcohol-burning motor and our materials." Von Richthofen promised that the first flight would be made within three weeks. He showed Sam the plans for the rocket launchers to be mounted under the wings. "The plane can carry about six rockets, but it'll mostly be good only for scouting. It won't go faster than forty miles an hour against the wind. But it'll be fun flying it." Sam was disappointed that the plane wasn't a two-seater. He had never flown. But von Richthofen said the next prototype would be a two-seater and Sam would be his first passenger. "After you've tested it out," Sam said. He expected John to protest about this and to insist that he be taken up first. But evidently John was not too eager to fly. The last stop was at the boatyard, located halfway between the hangar and Sam's house. The craft within the pine-log enclosure would be completed within a week. The Firedragon I was the amphibious prototype of the boat that would be the launch for the big boat. It was a beautiful machine, made of thick magnalium, about thirty-two feet long, shaped like a U.S. Navy cruiser with wheels, with three turrets on its sleek top deck. It was powered by steam, burned wood alcohol, could operate in water or on land, carried a crew of eleven and was, so Sam declared, invincible. He patted the cold gray hull and said, "Why should we worry about having bowmen? Or having anything but this? This juggernaut could crush a kingdom all by itself. It has a steampowered cannon the like of which the world. Earth or this planet, has never seen. That is why it is steamdriven and why it has such a huge boiler." All in all, the tour had made him happy. It was true that the plans for the great River boat had barely been started. But those took time. It was vital that the state be well protected at first, and just making the preparations was fun. He rubbed his hands and puffed on a new cigar, drawing the green smoke deeply into his lungs. And then he saw Livy. He beloved Livy, sick for so many years, and dead, finally, in Italy, in #, Restored to life and youth and beauty, but not, alas, to him. S HE was walking toward him, carrying her grail by its handle, wearing a white, scarlet-edged kilt that came halfway down her thighs and a thin white scarf for a bra. She had a fine figure, good legs, handsome features. Her forehead was broad and satiny white. Her eyes were large and luminous. Her lips were full and shapely; her smile, attractive; her teeth, small and very white. She customarily wore her dark hair parted, combed down smooth in front but twisted into a figure eight in the back. Behind an ear she wore one of the giant crimson roselike blooms that grew from the vines on the irontrees. Around her neck was a necklace made of the IF convoluted red vertebrae of the hornfish. Sam's heart felt as if it were being licked by a cat. She swayed as she walked toward him and her breasts bounced beneath the semiopaque fabric. Here was his Livy, who had always been so modest, had worn heavy clothes from the neck down to the ankle and had never undressed before him in the light. Now she reminded him of the half-naked women of the Sandwich Islands and he felt uneasy. He knew why. His queasiness among the natives had been as much due to their unwanted attraction for him as repulsion, each feeling dependent on the other and having nothing to do with the natives. Livy had had a puritanical upbringing but she had not been ruined by it. On Earth she had learned to drink and to like beer, had even smoked a few times and had become an infidel or, at least, a great doubter. She had even tolerated his constant swearing and had let loose with a few blisterers herself if the girls were not around. The accusations that she had censored his books and so emasculated them were off the target. He had done most of the censoring himself. Yes, Livy had always shown adaptability. Too much. Now, after twenty years of absence from him, she had fallen in love with Cyrano de Bergerac. And Sam had the uneasy feeling that that wild Frenchman had awakened in her something that Sam might have awakened if he had not been so inhibited himself. But after these years on The River and the chewing of a certain amount of dreamgum he had lost many of his own inhibitions. It was too late for him. Unless Cyrano left the scene... "Hello, Sam," she said in English. "How are you on this fine day?" "Every day is fine here," he said. "You can't even talk about the weather, let alone do anything about it." She had a beautiful laugh. "Come along with me to the grailstone," she said. "It's almost time for lunch." Every day he swore not to come near her because to do so hurt too much. And every day he took advantage of the smallest chance to get as close to her as he could. "Jim-dandy," he said. "Come along. How's Cyrano?" "Oh, very happy because he's finally going to get a rapier. Bildron, the swordsmith, promised that he'd have the first one -- after yours and the other Councilmen's, of course. He'd taken so long to reconcile himself to the fact that he would never hold a metal sword in his hand again. Then he heard about the meteroite and came here -- and now the greatest swordsman in the world will have a chance to show everybody that his reputation wasn't a lie, as some say." "Now Livy," he said. "I didn't say people had lied about his reputation. I said that maybe they exaggerated some. I still don't believe that story about his holding off two hundred swordsmen all by himself." "The fight at the Porte de Nesle was authentic! And it wasn't two hundred, you're the one pumping it up, Sam, just as you always do. There was a crowd of hired thugs that could have been a hundred or might just as wellTiave been. Even if there had been only twenty-five, the fact is that Cyrano attacked them all single-handed to save his friend, the Chevalier de Lignieres -- he killed two and wounded seven and ran the rest of them off. That is God's truth!" "I don't want to get into an argument about the merits of your man," he said. "Or about anything. Let's just talk like we used to when we had so much fun -- before you got sick." She stopped, her face grim. "I always, knew you resented my illness, Sam." "No, that wasn't it," he said. "I think I felt guilty that you were sick, as if somehow I were to blame. But I never hated you for it. I hated myself if I hated anyone. "I didn't say you hated me," she said. "I said you resented my illness and you showed it in many ways. Oh, you may have thought you were always noble and gentle and loving -- and most of the time you were -- you really were. But there were enough times when you looked, you spoke, you muttered, you gestured -- how can I describe exactly how you were? I can't, but I knew you resented me, sometimes loathed me, because i was sick." "I didn't!" he cried so loudly that a number of people stared. "Why argue about it?" she said. "Whether you did or not doesn't matter now. I loved you then and I still do, in a way. But not as I did." He was silent during the rest of the walk across the plain to the big mushroom-shaped stone. The cigar tasted like burning skunk cabbage. Cyrano was not present. He was superintending the building of a section of the wall which would eventually guard the shore of The River. Sam was glad. It was difficult enough for him to see Livy alone but when she was with the Frenchman, he could not endure his thoughts. In silence, he and Livy parted. lovely, honey-colored hair apIF preached him and he was able to set aside his feelings about Livy for a while. The woman's name was Gwenafra. She had, on evidence, died at about the age of. seven in a country that must have been Cornwall about the time the Phoenicians came there to exploit the tin mines. She had been resurrected among people of whom none spoke her ancient Celtic language and had been adopted by a group that spoke English. From her description, one of them had been that Sir Richard Francis Burton whom Sam had thought he'd seen on the shore shortly before the meteorite struck. Burton and his friends had built a small sailboat and set out for the headwaters of The River -- as might have been expected of a man who had spent half his life exploring in the wildernesses of Africa and the other continents. On Earth Burton had sought the headwaters of the Nile and had found, instead. Lake Tanganyika. But on this world he had again been seeking the source of a river the greatest river of them all -- undaunted by the prospect that it might be ten After little more than a year his boat had been attacked by evil men and one had stuck a stone knife into little Gwenafra and thrown her into The River, where she had drowned. She had awakened the next day on the banks somewhere far up in the oorthern hemisphere. The weather was colder, the sun weaker and the people there said that you did not have to go more than twenty thousand grailstones before you were in an area where the sun was always half above, half below the mountains. And there lived hairy, ape-faced men ten feet tall and weighing seven to eight hundred pounds. (This was true, Joe Miller had been one of the titanthrops there.) The people up River who adopted her spoke Suomenkieltd, which in English meant Finnish. DownRiver a little way were the Swedes. These were twentieth-century people who lived a peaceful life and Gwenafra grew up relatively happy with loving foster parents. She learned Finnish, Swedish, English, a Chinese dialect of the fourth century B.C. and Esperanto. She drowned again by accident one day and woke up here. She still remembered Burton; she cherished a childhood crush she had had for him. But, being a realist, she was ready to love other men. And she had -- and had just split with one, Sam had heard. She wanted a man who would be faithful to her and these were not easy to find in this world. Sam was very much attracted to her. The only thing that had kept him from asking her to move in with him had been the fear of angering Livy. That fear was ridiculous -- she had no claim on him as long as she was living with Cyrano. And she had made it plain that she did not care what he did in his private life -- or his public life. Nevertheless, against all logic, he was afraid to take another woman as his hutmate. He did not want to snap the last thin link. He chatted with Gwenafra a while and confirmed that she was still unattached. V L unch was upsetting. The "roulette wheel" concealed somewhere in the false bottom of the grail, the wild caster of dice, came up with a meal that only a Goshute Indian could have swallowed and even he might have gagged a little. Sam threw out all the food, but was able to console himself with two cigars, cigarettes and six ounces of an unfamiliar but delicious liqueur. Just smelling it sent his taste buds into a dance. The meeting with the Council and John took three hours. After much wrangling and a number of votes, it was decided to put to the people the question of amending the Carta so that a pro tern Councilman could be elected. John held up things for an hour, arguing that a vote wasn't needed. Why couldn't the Council simply say that the amendment was passed? No amount of explaining ever seemed to clarify such matters in John's head. It was not that he was unintelligent. It was just that he was not emotionally suited to comprehend democracy. The vote was unanimous to accept Firebrass as Hacking's official visiting fireman. But he would have a close eye kept on him. After all this John rose and made a speech, occasionally lapsing from Esperanto into Norman French when he was overpowered by emotion. He thought that Parolando should invade Soul City before Soul City invaded Parolando. The invasion should be launched as soon as the handguns and the armored amphibian, Firedragon , were ready. However, it might be best to test the mettle of their metal and the troops on New Brittany first. His spies were certain that Arthur planned to attack them soon. John's two toadies backed him, but the others, including Sam, voted them down. John's face became red and he scolded and drummed his fingers on the oak table, but nobody decided to change his mind. After supper the drums relayed a message from Hacking. Firebrass would" be arriving tomorrow, some time before noon. Sam retired to his office. By the IF light of lamps burning fishoil -- soon they would have electricity -- he and Van Boom and Tanya Velitsky and John Wesley O'Brien, the engineers, discussed their ideas about the Riverboat and drew rough sketches on paper. Paper was still scarce, but they would need enormous amounts to draw their blueprints. Van Boom said that they should wait until they were able to make a certain kind of plastic. Lines could be drawn on this with magnetized "pens" and corrections could easily be made by demagnetizing. Sam replied that that was fine. But he wanted to start building the Riverboat the moment the amphibian was completed. Van Boom said that he could not agree to that. Too many things were in the way. It was late when Sam said good night. Van Boom pulled the Mark I gun out of a large bag. "We have ten of these now," he said. "This one is yours. Compliments of Parolando's Engineering Corps. And here are twenty packages of powder and twenty plastic bullets. You can sleep with them under your pillow." Sam thanked him. Van Boom left and Sam barred the door. He went into the back room to talk to Joe Miller a while. Joe was still awake, but he said he was taking no sedation that night. He the fabuloOs riverboat would be getting up in the morning. Sam bade the giant good night and went into his bedroom, next to the pilothouse. He drank two shots of bourbon and lay down. After a while he managed to doze, though he was afraid that the three-o'clock rain would wake him as usual and he would have trouble getting back to sleep. H e awoke but the rain was long past. Shouts came from somewhere and then an explosion that rattled the ports in the pilothouse. Sam leaped out of bed, wrapped a kilt around his waist, seized an axe in one hand and ran into the pilothouse. He suddenly remembered his pistol, but decided he would go back for it when he found out what was going on. The River was still smothered in fog, but hundreds of dark figures of tall masts sticking out above it. Torches were flaring all over the plains and in the hills. Drums were beating. There was another explosion. A brightness in the night with bodies flying in all directions. He looked through the starboard port. The gates of the Iqg wall around King John's palace were open and men were streaming out. Among them was the stocky figure of John. By then more men had appeared out of the mists over The River. Bright starlight showed them lining up and moving out, rank after rank. The first of the invaders were by now in the great factories and advancing swiftly across the plain toward the foothills. Some explosions occurred inside factories as bombs were thrown to dislodge the defenders. And then a red tail flared out, disappeared, and something black shot toward him. Sam threw himself to the floor. A roar came beneath him, the floor heaved and the glass ports blew in. A wiff of acrid smoke came to him and was gone. He should get up and run, he realized, but he couldn't. He was deafened and frozen. Another rocket would be coming his way and that one might be closer. A giant hand gripped his shoulder and pulled him up. Another hand slid under his legs and he was being carried out. The arms and the chest of the giant were very hairy and as hard-muscled and as warm as a gorilla's. A voice as deep as if it were at the end of a railroad tunnel rumbled, "'Take it eathy, Bothth." 'Tut me down, Joe," Sam said. "Tm all right, except for my shame. And that's all right, too, I ought to feel ashamed." His shock was fading and a sense of relative calm flowed in to fill the vacuum. The appearance of the massive titanthrop had steadied him. Good old Joe -- he might be a dumb subhuman and sick at the moment, but he was still worth a battalion. Joe had put on his suit of leather armor. In one hand was the haft of an enormous double-headed axe of steel. The face under the hooded helmet was low-browed, bulging with bone bars and buttresses and massive javys. It was the face of a being between ape and man, though closer to man. But the unexpected feature, the comical yet terrifying feature, was the nose. This was the huge outlandishly protrudihg nose of the proboscis monkey. It provoked stares and laughter, though few had the foolhardiness to laugh in Joe's face. He was ten feet tall and weighed almost as much as a pair of lions. "Who are they?" he rumbled. "They from Thoul Thity ?" "I don't know," Sam said. "Do you feel up to fighting? How's the head?" "It hurtth. Yeah, I can fight okay. Vere do ve go from here?" Sam led him downhill toward the men collecting around John. He heard his name called and turned to see the tall lanky figure of de Bergerac, Livy by his side. She carried a small round shield of leather-covered oak and a steeltipped spear. Cyrano held a long, dully shining blade. Sam's eyes widened. It was a rapier. IF Cyrano said, "Morbleur He switched to Esperanto. 'Your smith gave this to me just after supper -- he said there was no sense in waiting." Cyrano whipped the rapier, cutting the air with a sharp sound. "Tve come alive again. Steel -- sharp steel!" them all leap for the ground. Sam waited until he was sure that another rocket was not coming and then looked at his pilothouse. It had received a direct hit; its front was blown open; a fire was racing through it and would soon be in the texas. His diary was gone but he could retrieve his grail later. It was indestructible. In the next few minutes the wooden missiles, tails flaming, arched out, wobbling, from wooden bazookas held on the shoulders of the Parolandoj rocketeers. The missiles landed near and sometimes among the enemy and exploded with gouts of fire and much black smoke, quickly carried away by the wind. Three runners arrived to report. The attack had been launched from three places, all from The River. The main body was concentrated here, apparently to seize the Parolandoj leaders, the larger factories and the amphibian. The other two armies were about a mile away on each side. The invaders were composed of men from New Brittany and Kleomanujo and the Ulmaks from across The River. The Ulmaks were savages who had lived in Siberia circa # B.C. and whose descendants had migrated across the Bering Straits to become Amerinds. So much for King John's spy service, Sam ihoughiM nless -- unless he is in on the attack. But if he were he wouldn't be standing out here where he's likely to get killed any moment... Anyway, Arthur of New Brittany would never make a deal with his murderer uncle. The rockets continued to arc down from both sides, the fivepound warheads with their rock fragnient shrapnel taking a toll. The Parolandoj had the advantage; they could lie flat while their rockets exploded among upright targets. The invaders had to keep moving, otherwise they might just as well go home. Nevertheless, it was frightening to lie on the ground and wait for the next noisy blast and hope that it would not come closer than the last one. There were screams from the wounded that were not, however, as heartrending as they would have been if Sam had not been nearly deafened. Then, suddenly, the rockets had quit blowing up the world. A huge hand shook Sam's shoulder. He looked up to see that many around him were getting to their feet. The sergeants were yelling into the stunned ears of their men to form a battle array. The enemy was so close now that neither side was using the missiles or else they had all been launched. Ahead was a dark body, a sea of screaming whooping fiends. They ran up the hill and the first, second, and third ranks fell, pierced by arrows. But those behind did not break, they leaped over the fallen and kept on coming. Suddenly, the archers were being hammered down or thrust through or clubbed. Sam kept close behind Joe Miller, who moved ahead slowly, his axe rising and falling. And then the giant was down, and the enemy were struggling on top of him like a pack of jackals on a lion. Sam tried to get to him; his axe smashed through a shield and a head and an uplifted arm and then he felt a burning pain along his ribs. He was pushed back and back, while he slashed away with the axe. He stumbled over a pile of wood. Above him was the burning floor of his house; the stilts were on fire. He turned on his side and there was the handgun, the Mark I, that he had left by his bedside. Near it lay three packages of powder with the nitrate-soaked twists and a number of the plastic bullets. His axe was gone; it had become wedged in a skull. T WO men whirled by him in a dance, their hands gripping each other, straining, grunting with the strain, glaring into each other's bloody faces. They stopped and Sam recognized King John -- his opponent was taller but not as thickly built. He, too, had tawny hair and eyes that were blue in the flames overhead. Sam broke open the pistol, put in the bullet and the charge as he had done that morning up in the hills, locked the barrel and rose to his feet. The two men still struggled, one slipping back a little, then the other, trying to throw each other. John held a steel knife in his right hand, the other man a steel axe. Sam looked around; no one was coming at him. He stepped forward and extended the muzzle of the big pistol, holding it steady with both hands. He pulled the trig; ger, the click sounded, the gun was jarred to one side by the heavy hammer, there was a flash, he had the gun back in line, a boom, a cloud of smoke -- and John's assailant fell to one side, the entire right side of his skull blown away. John fell gasping onto the ground. Then he raised himself, looking at Sam, who was reloading the gun. "'Many thanks, partner! That man was my nephew, Arthur!" Sam did not reply. If he had been thinking he would have IF waited until Arthur had killed John and then blown Arthur's head off. It was ironic that he, Sam, who had much to gain by John's death, should be responsible for saving him. Moreover, he could not expect gratitude from John. The man had no such thing in his soul. Sam completed reloading the pistol and strode away, looking for Joe Miller. But he saw Livy reeling backward as a big Ulmak, whose left arm dangled bloodily, drove her back with blows of a stone axe on her shield. Her spear had been broken and in a few seconds he would have beaten her to her knees or shattered the shield. Sam reversed the pistol and broke the Ulmak's skull from behind with the butt of his gun. Livy fell exhausted and weeping on the ground and he would have gotten down to comfort her. But she seemed all right and he did not know where Joe Miller was. He plunged into the embattled mass and saw Joe on his feet again, demolishing heads, trunks and arms with sweeps of his great axe. Sam stopped a few paces from a man who was coming up from behind Joe, a large axe in both hands. Sam fired and the bullet took part of the man's chest off. A minute later, the invaders were running for their lives. The sky was graying; by its light it was evident that Parolandoj were coming in from north and south. The other two columns had been shattered and the reinforcements were outnumbering thejnvaders. Moreover, they brought rockets, which blew up the boats and canoes waiting for the defeated. Sam felt too exhilarated to be depressed by the losses and the damage. For the first time came out of the blue funk that always seized him during a fight. He actually enjoyed the battle during the last ten minutes. was gone. A wild-eyed and naked Hermann Goering, his scalp caked with blood, appeared on the battleground. His arms were raised straight up and he was shouting, "Oh, brothers and sisters! Shame! Shame! You have killed, you have hated, you have lusted for the blood and the ecstasy of murder! Why did you not throw down your arms and take in your enemies with love? Let them do with you what they would? You would have died and suffered but final victory would have been yours! The enemy would have felt your love -- and the next time he might have hesitated before again waging war. And the time after that and the next time he might have asked himself, 'What am I doing? Why am I doing this? What good is this? I have gained nothing -- ' and your love would have seeped through the stone over his heart and -- " John, coming up behind Goering, struck him on the back of the head with the hilt of his knife. Goering fell forward and lay on his face without moving. "So much for traitors," John shouted. He stared around wildly and then yelled, "Where are Trimalchio and Mordaunt?" Sam said, "They wouldn't be stupid enough to hang around here. You'll never catch them. They'll know you know they sold out to Arthur." John's striking of Goering was illegal, since free speech was every one's right in Parolandct But Sam did not think that arresting John would be the right course at that moment. Sam, too, had felt like hitting Goering. Livy, still weeping, staggered past. Sam followed her to where Cyrano sat on a pile of corpses. The Frenchman was wounded in a dozen places, though not seriously, and his rapier was bloody from tip to guard. He had given a splendid account of himself and his weapon. Livy threw herself on Cyrano and Sam turned away. She had not even thanked him for having saved her earlier. Sam sighed. There was a crash behind him. He turned. The rest of his house had fallen in, bringing the stilts with it. He felt drained of every atom of strength, but there would be little rest for him today. The casualties and the damage had to be assessed. The dead had to be taken to the rendering factory up in the hills, since their fat was used to make glycerin. The practice was gruesome but necessary and the owners of the bodies did not mind. Tomorrow they would be alive and well again somewhere far away along The River. In addition, the entire population would have to be kept ready for a call to arms and the work on erecting the walls along the Riveredge would have to be speeded up. Scouts and messengers would have to be sent out to determine just what the military situation was. The Ulmaks and the Kleomenujoj and the New Bretons might launch an all-out full-scale attack. A captain reported that Kleomenes, the leader of Kleomenujo, had been found dead near the Riveredge, where a piece of rock shrapnel had entered his skull. So ended the halfbrother of the great Spartan, Leonidas, who defended the pass of Thermopylos. Or so he ended in this area at least. Sam appointed some men to leave by lxat immediately for the two countries. They were to inform them that Parolando did not IF intend to take vengeance if the new leaders would guarantee friendship to Parolando. John complained that he should have been consulted and there was a short but savage argument. Sam finally agreed that John was right in principle, but there was no time to discuss certain matters. John informed him that, under the law, Sam had to take the time. Any decision had to be agreed upon by both of them. Sam hated to agree but John was right. They couldn't be giving contradictory orders. They went together to inspect the factories. These were not badly damaged. The invaders had not, of course, wanted to wreck them since they had intended to use them. The amphibian, the Fired ragon , was untouched. Sam shuddered when he thought of what might have happened if it had been completed and had fallen into the hands of the enemy. With it, they could have crushed the Parolandoj in the center and dug in to fight on the perimeter until reinforcements came. He would set up a large special guard around the vehicle. He fell asleep after lunch in a Councilman's hut. It seemed that he had just closed his eyes when he was shaken awake. Joe was standing over him, breathing bourbon fumes from his tremendous proboscis. 'The delegathyon from Thoul Thity chutht landed." "Firebrass," Sam said, standing up from the chair. "I forgot all about him. What a time for him to show up!" H e walked down to the River, where a catamaran was beached near the grailstone. John was already there, greeting the delegation, which consisted of six blacks, two Arabs and two Hindus. Firebrass was a short, bronzeskinned, curly-haired man with big brown eyes flecked with green. His huge forehead and shoulders and thickly muscled arms contrasted with his skinny legs, making him look all top. He spoke in Esperanto at first but later used English. It was a very strange English, full of terms and slang that Sam did not understand. But there was a warmth and openness about Firebrass that made Sam feel good just to have him around. "We better go back to Esperanto," Sam said, smiling and pouring three more slugs of scotch into Firebrass's cup. "Is that spaceman's lingo or Soul City dialect?" "Marsman's," Firebrass said. "Soul City English is pretty wild, but the official language, of course, is Esperanto, though Hacking was considering Arabic. But he isn't too happy about his Arabs any more," he added in a lower voice, looking at Abd ar-rahman and Ali Fazghuli, the Arab members of his delegation. "As you can see," Sam said, "we are in no condition to have a long leisurely conference. Not now. We have to clean up, get information about what's going on outside Parolando and set up our defences. But you are welcome, of course, and we'll get around to business within a few days." "I don't mind," Firebrass said. "I'd like to look around, if you don't mind." "I don't, but my co-Consul has to give his consent, too." John, smiling as if it hurt his teeth to be exposed to the air -- and it probably did this time -- said that Firebrass was welcome. But he would have to be accompanied by a guard of honor every time he left the quarters that would be assigned to him. Firebrass thanked him but another delegate, Abdullah X, protested loudly and occasionally obscenely. Firebrass said nothing for a minute and then told Abdullah to be polite, since they were guests. Sam was grateful, though he wondered if the whole speech had not been arranged. It had not been easy to sit there and listen, though all of the vitriolics had been hurled at the white race in general. Though it troubled him, Sam had to agree with Abdullah; he was right about conditions as they had been. But old Earth was dead; they were living in a new world. Sam personally conducted the delegates to three huts, side by side, owned by men and women who had been killed last night. Then he moved into a hut near the delegation. Drums boomed by the grailstone. After a minute, drums from across The River thundered back an answer. The new chief of the Ulmaks wanted peace. The old chief, Shrubgrain, had been put to death and his head would be delivered within the hour by canoe if peace could be arranged. Shurbgrain had failed his people by leading them to defeat. Sam gave orders to transmit a request for a conference with the new chief, Threezburm. Drums from Chernsky's Land said that lyeyasu, who ruled a twelve-mile stretch of land between New Brittany and Kleomenujo, had invaded New Brittany. The news meant that the New Bretons would not be bothering Parolando, but it also worried Sam. lyeyasu was a very ambitious man. Once he had consolidated his state with New Brittany he might decide he was strong enough to take Parolando. More drums. Publius Crassus sent his congratulations and warmest regards, and he would be visiting tomorrow to see what he IF could do to aid Parolando. And also to see how hard weve been hit and if we'd be easy pickings, Sam thought. So far, Publius had been cooperative, but a man who had served under Julius Caesar was never above a little of his own brand of Caesarism. Goering, his head wrapped in a bloody towel, staggered by, supported by two of his followers. Sam hoped he would take the hint and leave Parolando, but he didn't have much faith in the German's perceptiveness. He went to sleep that night while torches burned everywhere over the land and guards peered into the shadows and the mists. His sleep was troubled, despite his intense fatigue. He tossed and rolled and once he awoke, his heart beating, his skin cold, certain that there was a third person in the hut. He fully expected to see the shadowy figure of The Mysterious Stranger crouched by his bed. But nobody was there except the monstrous form of Joe stretched out on the huge bamboo bed near him. VI T he next morning he arose unrefreshed in a refreshed world. The three-o'clock rain had washed away the blood and the stink of gunpowder. The bodies were out of sight and the sky was clear and blue. Business as usual was resumed but without about four hundred and fifty men and women. Half of these were in the rendering factory; the rest were in the hospital. Those who wanted to be put out of their misery were given their wish. Time had been when an axe was the only euthanasiast but now, thanks to Parolando's technology, the work was done with a potassium cyanide pill. Some decided to stick it out. In time their limbs or eyes would grow back. Those afraid of the pain boarded The Suicide Express. There bodies would go to the rendering factory. Sam's secretary had been killed. Sam asked Gwenafra if she would afra seemed very pleased; the new position gave her a high status and she had made no secret of the fact that she liked to be near Sam. Lothar vjon Richthofen, however, did not seem pleased. "Why shouldn't she be my. sec-, retary, regardless of her relationship to you?" Sam said. "There is no reason," Lothar said, "except that I might have a very good chance with her if she isn't around you much." "Let the best man win." "My sentiments, too, but I don't like your wasting her time or leading her on. You know that you won't take another hutmate as long as Livy is here." "'Livy has nothing to say about what I do' Sam said. Lothar smiled slightly and said, "Sure, Sam." #wenafra tagged along with him,, taking notes, sending messages, receiving them, arranging schedules and appointments. Though he was very busy, he found moments when he could talk and joke with her and he felt a warmth every time he looked at her. Gwenafra seemed to adore him. Two days passed. The twentyfour hour shift on the amphibian was showing results -- it would be completed in another two days. The Soul City delegation strolled around with twoof King John's men watching them. Joe Miller, who had gone back to his bed after the battle, said he was well again. Now Sam had both Gwenafra and the titanthrop with him and his world seemed much more comfortable, though it was a long way from being Utopia. Word came via the drum telegraph that Odysseus had loaded his ships with flints and would be back in a month. He had gone as commander of a ten-boat fleet to barter with the chief of Selinujo. On Earth she had been Countess Huntingdon, Selina Hastings, born #, died #. She was now a member of the Church of the Second Chance and traded her flint with Parolando only because Parolando permitted some of Goering's missionaries to preach at will in its territory. In return for the flint she had been promised a small metal steamboat in which she proposed to go up and down The River and preach. Sam thought she was fooling herself. The first place she put into she was liable to have her throat cut for the sake of the boat. But that was her business. T he Councilmen met with the Soul City delegation. Sam would have liked to put it off, since John was in a mood even uglier than usual. One of his women had tried to kill him -- or at least so he claimed. He had been stabbed in the side before he broke her jaw and knocked her head against the corner of a table. The woman had died an hour later still uncon.scious, and John's word that she had attacked him first had to be accepted. Sam would have liked to have collected some neutral eyewitness account but that was impossible. John was in pain from the stab wound, half-drunk with bourbon as an anesthetic and smarting because the woman had dared to defy him. He slumped in a large, high-backed, ornately carved oak chair covered with red hornfish leather. One hand was around a clay vessel full of whiskey, a cigarette dangled from his lips and IF he glowered at everybody. The conference was taking place at a round table in the largest room in John's palace. Firebrass was talking. "Hacking once believed in total segregation of whites and nonwhites. He believed, fiercely believed, that whites could never accept, not really accept, nonwhite peoples, that is, the blacks, Mongolians, Polynesians, and Amerindians. The only way nonwhites could live with dignity, feel beautiful, be a people with its own personality and pride, was the way of segregation. Equal but separate. "Then his leader, Malcolm X, quit the Black Muslims. Malcom X saw that he was wrong. Not all whites were devils, racist fiends, any more than all blacks had flat noses. Hacking fled the states to live in Algend and there he found that it was the attitude that made racism, not the color of the skin." Hardly an original or surprising discovery, Sam thought. But he had told himself that he would not interrupt. "And then the young whites of the United States rejected their parents' prejudices and they supported the blacks in their struggles. They got right out on the streets and demonstrated, rioted, laid down their lives for the blacks. They genuinely seemed to like blacks, not because they thought they ought to, but because blacks were human beings and human beings can be liked or even loved. "Hacking, however, wasn't ever really at ease with an American white, try though he did to think of them as human beings. He was ruined, just as most whites, most older whites, were ruined. But he tried and he respected those young whites that told their parents, their white racist society, to go to hell. "Then he died, as everybody did, black or white. He found himself among ancient Chinese and he wasn't very happy with them because they regarded all peoples except the Chinese as inferior." Sam remembered the Chinese of Nevada and California in the early '#s, the hard-working, thrifty, quiet, meek, cheery little brown men and women. They had taken abuse that most people would not give a mule, been spat upon, cursed, tortured, stoned, robbed, raped, suffered about every indignity and crime that a people could suffer. They had had no rights whatsoever, no protector or protection. And they had never murmured, never revolted, they just endured. What thoughts had those masklike faces hidden? Had they, too, believed in the superiority of any Chinese to any white devil? If so, why had they not struck back, not once? Firebrass said, "So Hacking left in a dugout, floated downRiver and after many thousands of miles settled down among some blacks of seventeenth-century A.D. Africa. Ancestors of the Zulus before they migrated to southern Africa. He learned Zulu but after a while he left. Their customs were too repulsive and they were too bloody minded for him. 'Then he lived in an area where the people were a mixture of Dark Age Huns and dark whites of the New Stone Age. They accepted him well enough, but he missed his own people, the American blacks. So he took off again and was captured by ancient Moabites and enslaved, escaped, was captured by ancient Hebrews and put into grail slavery, escapedagain, found a little community of blacks who'd been pre-Civil War slaves and was happy for a while. But their Uncle Tom attitudes and their superstitions got on his nerves and he took off, sailed downRiver and lived with several other peoples. Then, one day, some big blond whites, Germans of some kind, raided the people he was with. He fought, was killed. "He was resurrected here. Hacking became convinced that the only happy states on The River are going to be made up of people with similar colors, similar tastes, and of the same terrestrial period. Anything else just won't work. People here aren't going, to change. Back on Earth he could believe in progress, because the young whites were flexible minded. The old ones would die off and then the children of the young whites would be even more free of racial prejudice. But here that just isn't going to take place. Every man's set in his ways. So, unless Hacking just happened to find a community of late twentieth-century whites, he would find no whites without racial hatreds or prejudices. Of course, the ancient whites didn't have any, but they're too strange for a civilized man." S AM asked, "What's all this leading up to?" "We want a homogeneous nation. We can't get all late twentieth-century blacks, but we can get as black a nation as possible. Now, we know that you have approximately three thousand blacks in Parolando. We would like to exchange our Dravidians, Arabs, any nonblacks, for your blacks. Hacking is making similar proposals to your neighbors, but he doesn't have any lever with them." King John sat up and said, loudly, "You mean he doesn't have anything they want?" Firebrass looked coolly at John and said, "That's about it. But we'll have a lever some day." "Do you mean when you have enough steel weapons?" Sam said. Firebrass shrugged. John crashed his empty cup down on the table. "Well, we don't IF want your Arabs or your Dravidians or any of your Soul City dregs," he shouted. "But I'll tell you what we will do. For every ton of bauxite or cryolite or ounce of platinum, we will give you one of our black citizens! You can keep your Saracen infidels or send them packing downRiver or drown them for ail we care." "Wait a minute," Sam said. "We can't give our citizens away. If they want to volunteer, fine. But we don't just give anybody away. This is a democracy." Firebrass's expression had darkened at John's outburst. "I wasn't suggesting that you give anybody away," he said. "We're not slave dealers, you know. What we want is a one-per-one-voluntary exchange. The Wahhabi Arabs, whom ar-Rahman and Fazghuli represent, feel they're unwelcome at Soul City and they would like to go where they could congregate in their own community, form a sort of Kasbah, you might say." Sam thought this sounded fishy. Why couldn't they do that just as well in Soul City? Or why didn't they just get up and leave? One of the beauties of this world was that ties or property or dependence on income did not exist. A man could carry everything he owned on his back -- and building another house was easy in a world where new bamboo grew two inches a day. It was possible that Hacking wanted to get his people into Paroiando so that they could spy or revolt when Hacking invaded. Sam said, "We'll put your proposition about the exchange to each individual. That's all we can do. Now, does Sinjoro Hacking plan to keep on supplying us with the minerals and with wood?" "As long as you keep on sending us raw ore and steel weapons," Firebrass said. "But Hacking is thinking of upping the price." John's fist smashed into the table top again. "We will not be robbed," he shouted. "We are paying too much now. Don't push us, Sinjoro Firebrass, or you may find yourselves with nothing. Not even your lives!" "Take it easy. Your Majesty," Sam said quietly. To Firebrass he said, "John isn't feeling well. Please forgive him. However, he does have a point. We can be pushed only so far." A bdullah X, a very big and very black man, jumped up and pointed a big finger at Sam. In English, he said, "You honkies had better quit badmouthing us. We won't take any crap from you. Mister Whitey! None! Especially from a man that wrote a book like you did about Nigger Jim. We don't like white racists and we only deal with them because there's nothing else to do but that just now." "Take it easy, Abdullah," Firebrass said. He was smiling and Sam wondered if Abdullah's speech was part of a well prepared program. Probably Firebrass was wondering if John's explosions had been rehearsed. Actors didn't have to be politicians, but politicians had to be actors. Sam groaned and said, "Did you read Huckleberry Finn, Sinjoro X?" Abdullah, sneering, said, "I don't read trash." "Then you don't know what you're talking about, do you?" Abdullah's face darkened. Firebrass grinned. "I don't have to read that racist crap, man," Abdullah shouted, "Hacking told me all about it and what he says is good enough for me. "You read it and then come back and we'll discuss it," Sam said. "You crazy?" Abdullah said. "You know there aren't any books on this world." "Then you lost out, didn't you?" Sam said. He was trembling a little; he wasn't used to being talked to like this by a black man. "Anyway," Sam said, "this isn't a literary tea and discussion group. Let's stick to the issue." But Abdullah would not stop shouting about the books that Sam had written. And John, losing his temper, leaped up and screamed, "Sieiitt, negracor John had taken the Esperanto word for "black" or "negro" and infixed the disparaging "-ac-" particle. He had gotten his point over quite well. There was a moment of shock and silence. Abdullah X's mouth was open, then it closed and he looked triumphant, almost happy. Firebrass bit his lip. John leaned on the table on his fists and scowled. Sam puffed on his cigar. He knew that John's contempt for all humanity had made him invent the term. John had no racial prejudice; he had never seen more than a half-dozen blacks during his lifetime on Earth. But he certainly knew how to insult a person; the knowledge was second nature to him. "I'm walking out," Abdullah X said. "I may be going home -- and if I do you can bet your whke skin that you'll pay hell getting any more aluminum or platinum. Mister Charlie." Sam rose to his feet and said, "Just a minute. If you want an apology, I extend it on behalf of all Parolando." Abdullah looked at Firebrass, who looked away. Abdullah said, "I want an apology from him, now!" He pointed at King John. Sam leaned close to John and said softly, "There's too much at stake to play the proud monarch. Your Majesty! And you may be IF playing into their hands with your little fit. They are up to something, you can bet on that. Apologize. John straightened up and said, "I apologize to no man, especially not to a commoner." Sam snorted and gestured with his cigar. "Can't you get it through your thick Plantagenet head that there isn't any such thing as royal blood or divine right of kings any more, that we're all commoners? Or all kings?" out. Abdullah looked at Firebrass, who nodded. Abdullah walked out. Sam said, "Well, Sinjoro Firebrass, what next? Do you people go home?" Firebrass shook his head. "No, I don't believe in hasty decisions. But the conference is suspended as far as the Soul City delegation is concerned. Until John Lackland apologizes. I'll give you until noon tomorrow to decide what to do." Firebrass turned to leave. Sam said, "I'll talk to John, but he's as hardheaded as a Missouri mule." "I'd hate to see our negotiations fold because one man can't keep his insults to himself," Firebrass said. "And I'd also hate to see our trade stop, because that would mean no Riverboat for you." Sam said, "Don't get me wrong, Sinjoro Firebrass. Tm making no threats. But-I won't be stopped, ril get the aluminum if i have to kick John out of the country myself. Or, alternatively, if I have to go down to Soul City and get the aluminum myself." "I understand you," Firebrass said. "But what you don't understand is that Hacking isn't out for power. He only wants to have a well protected state so that his citizens can enjoy life. And they will enjoy their lifc because they'll all have similar tastes and similar goals. In other words, they'll all be black." Sam grunted and then said, "Very well." He fell silent but just before Firebrass left he called, "One minute. Have you read Huckleberry FinnT' Firebrass turned back. "Sure. I thought it was a great book when I was a kid. I read it again when I was in college and I could see its flaws then." "Were you disturbed because Jim was called Nigger Jim?" "You have to remember that I was born in nineteen-seventy-five on a farm near Syracuse, New York. Things had changed a lot by then and the farm had originally been owned by my great-greatgreat grandfather, who came up from Georgia to Canada via the underground railway and then purchased the farm after the Civil War. No, I wasn't offended by your use of the word. Negroes were called niggers openly in the time you wrote about and nobody thought anything of it. Sure, the word was an insult. But you were portraying people as they actually talked and the ethical basis of your novel, the struggle between Huck's duty as a citizen and his feeling for Jim as a human being and the victory of the human feeling in Huck -- I was moved. The whole book was an indictment of slavery, of the semifeudal society of the Mississippi, of superstition -- of everything stupid of that time. So why should I be offended by it?" 'Then why -- " "Abdullah -- whose original name was George Robert Lee -- was born in nineteentwenty-five and Hacking was born in nineteen-thirty-eight. Blacks were niggers then to a lot of whites, though not all. They found out the hard way that violence -- or the threat of it, the same thing that the whites had used to keep them down -- was the only way to get their rights as citizens of the United States. You died in nineteen-ten, right? But you must have been told by any number of people what happened after that ?" Sam nodded, "It's hard to believe. Not the violence of the riots. Plenty of that happened in my lifetime and nothing, I understand, ever equaled the Draft Act riots in New York City during the Civil War. I mean, what's hard to visualize is the licentiousness of the late twentieth century." "Yet you're living in a society that is far more free and licentious -- from the viewpoint of the nineteenth century -- than any society in the twentieth. You've adapted." "I suppose so," Sam replied. "But the two weeks of absolute nudity that the entire human species lived through during the first days after resurrection ensured that mankind would never again be the same. Not as regards nudity, anyway. And the undeniable fact of the resurrection shattered many fixed ideas and attitudes. Though the diehard is still with us, as witness your Wahhabi Moslems." "Tell me, Sinjoro Clemens," Firebrass said. "You were an early liberal, far ahead of your times in many things. You spoke up against slavery and were for equality. And when you wrote the Magna Carta for Parolando you insisted that there s;hould be political equality for all species, races and both sexes. I notice that a black man and a .white woman live almost next door to you. Be hpnest, doesn't it disturb you to see that ?" Sam drew in smoke, blew it out IF and said, "To be honest, yes, it did not downright pain, by leaving disturb me. Well, to tell the truth, Parolando." it almost killed me! What my "Are you threatening me?" niind told me and what my re"Not with any action from me. flexes told me were two different But there are plenty who may get things. I hated it. But i stuck to my so riled up they'll run you out on a guns, I said nothing, I became acrail. Or take you down to The quainted with that couple and I River and drown you. You're uplearned to like them. And now, setting everybody with your after a year, it bothers me only a preachings. This state was foundvery little. And that will go away in ed with one main goal, the buildtime." ing of the Riverboat. Now, a man "The difference between may say anything he wants to and you -- representing the white libnot run foul of the law here. But eral -- and the youth of Hacking's there are those who sometimes igday and mine was that we were not nore the law and I wouldn't want to bothered. We accepted it." have to punish them because you "Don't I get any credit for lifttempted them. I suggest that you ing myself by my mental booldo your Christian duty and restraps?" Sam asked. move yourself from the premises. "Yawblaw," Firebrass said. That way, you won't be tempting lapsing into English -- of a sort, good men and women to commit "Two degrees off is better than violence." ninety. Pin it." "I'm not a Christian," Goering said. alone. He sat for a long that. I don't think I ever met a while, then stood up and went outpreacher who came out and said side. The first person he saw was so, in so many words." Hermann Goering. His head was "Sinjoro Clemens," Goering still wrapped in a towel but his said, "I read your books when I skin was less pale and his eyes did was a young man in Germany, not look odd. first in German and then in EngSam said, "How's your head?" lish. But levity or mild irony aren't "It still hurts. But I can walk going to get us any place. I am not without driving hot spikes in it a Christian, though I try to pracevery time I take a step." tice the better Christian virtues. I "I don't like to see a man sufam a missionary for the Church fer," Sam said. "So I suggest that of the Second Chance. All Teryou could avoid more suffering, if restrial religions have been disthe fabulous riverboat # credited, even if some won't adinit it. The Church is the first religion to rise on the new world, the only one which has any chance to survive. It -- " "Spare me the lecture," Sam said. "I've heard enough from your predecessors and from you. What Tm saying, in utter friendliness and a desire to save you from harm and also, to be honest, to get you out of my craw, is that you should lake off. Right now. Or you'll be killed." "Then I'll rise at dawn tomorrow somewhere else and preach The Truth there, wherever I find myself. You see, here, as on Earth, the blood of the martyr is the seed of the Church. The man who kills one of us only ensures that The Truth, the chance for eternal salvation, will be heard by more people. Murder has spread our faith up and down The River far faster than any conventional means." "Congratulations," Sam said exasperatedly, dropping into English as he often did when angry. "But tell me, doesn't the repeated bother you? Aren't you afraid of running out of body?" "What do you mean?" "Tenets, anyone?" Sam got no reaction except a puzzled look. Sam resumed in Esperanto. "One of your major tenets, if I remember correctly, is that Man wasn't resurrected so he  could enjoy life here forever. He i is given only a limited time, though it may look like a long time to most, especially if they don't happen to be enjoying life here. You postulate something analogous to a soul, something you call a psychomorph, right? Or sometimes a ka. You have to, otherwise you can't claim a continuity of identity in a man. Without it a man who dies is dead, even if his body is reproduced exactly and made alive again. That second body is only a reproduction. The Lazarus has the mind and the memories of the man who died, so he thinks he's the man who died. But he isn't. He's just a living duplicate. Death terminated the first man. He's through. "Unless he has a soul -- or a psychomorph or a kacd it what you will. This is an entity which is born with the body, accompanies it, registers and records everything the body does and, indeed, must be an incorporeal incorporation of the body, if you'll excuse that contradiction. So that, when the flesh dies, the ka still exists. It exists in some fourth dimension or in some polarization which protoplasmic eyes can't see or mechanical devices can't detect. Is that correct?" "You're close enough," Goering said. "Crudely put but satisfactory." IF iing a big cloud of green whole and young again and then smoke, "we have -- you have, not recordings are made of these I -- the postulated soul of the bodies -- which are destroyed and Christians and the Moslems and the dead are raised on a new world, others ad nauseam. But you claim such as this, again through e-m that the soul does not go to a hell or conversion, a heaven. It flits around in some "'The psychomorphs, or kas sort of fourth-dimensional limbo, have an affinity to their protoIt would do so forever if it were plasmic twins. The moment a not for the interference of other duplicate of the dead body is beings. These are extra-Terresmade, the ka attaches itself and trials who came into existence begins recording. So that, if the long before humanity did. These body is killed and duplicated a superbeings came to Earth when hundred times, the ka still retains mankind did not yet exist -- in fact, the identity, the mind and the they visited every planet in the unimemories of all the bodies. So that verse that might have sentient life it is not just one duplicate after someday." another being created. It is a mat"You're not phrasing exactly ter of preservation of the pristine as we do," Goering said. "We individual." maintain that every Galaxy has "But!" Sam said, waving his one -- or perhaps many -- ancient cigar and then stabbing its glowspecies inhabiting certain planets, ing end close to Goering's cheek. These beings may have arisen in "But! You maintain that a man our Galaxy or they may have orcannot be killed an indefinite iginated in an earlier, now dead, number of times. You say that. Galaxy or universe. In any event, after a couple of hundred times they are wise and knew long ago death does have a final effect, that sentient life would arise on Continued dying weakens the link Earth and they set up devices between body and ka and evenwhich started recording these sentually the duplication of the body tients from the moment they apdoes not cause the kti to merge with peared. These devices are undeit. The ka wanders off, haunts the tectable by the sentients. spooky corridors of the fourth "At some time which these Andimension or whatever. It becients, as we call them, have detercomes, in effect, a ghost, a lost mined, the recordings are sent to a soul. It is done for." special place. There the dead are "That is the essence of our fleshed out from the recordings by faith," Goering said. "Or I should say our knowledge, since we know this to be true." Sam raised his bushy eyebrows. "Indeed? Know?" "Yes. Our founder heard The Truth a year after Resurrection, a year to the day after all of humanity rose from the dead. A man came to him at night as he prayed for a revelation on a high ledge up in the mountains. This man told him certain things, showed him certain things, that no terrestrial mortal could tell or show. This man was an agent of The Ancients and he revealed The Truth, and told our founder to go out and preach the doctrine of the Second Chance. "Actually, Second Chance is a misnomer. It is really our First Chance, because we never had a chance for salvation and eternal life while we were on Earth. But life on Earth was a necessary prelude to this Riverworld. The Creator made the universe and then The Ancients preserved humankind -- indeed, all sentients throughout the universe. They preserved. But salvation is up to mankind only. "It is up to each man to save himself, now that he has been given the chance." "Through the Church of the Second Chance and that only, I suppose," Sam said. He did not' want to sneer but he could not help it. "That is what we believe," Goering said.   of this mysterious stranger?" Sam said. He thought of his Mysterious Stranger, and felt panic. Could the two be the same? Or from among the same beings, who called themselves the Ethicals? His Stranger, the man who sent the nickel-iron meteorite here and who had enabled Joe Miller to see the Tower in the mists of the North Polar Sea, was a renegade of the Ethicals. If he were to be believed. "Credentials?" Goering said. "Papers from God?" He laughed. "The founder knew that his visitor could not be just a man because he knew things that only a god, or a superior being, coiild know about him. And he showed him some things that he had to believe. And he told him how we were brought back to life and why. He did not tell him everything. Some things will be revealed later. Some things we must find out for ourselves." "What is the name of this founder?" Sam aid. "Or don't you know? Is that one of the hidden things?" "No one knows," Goering said. "It is not necessary to know. What is a name? He only called himself Viro. That is, in Esperanto, a man. From the Latin vir. We call him La Fondinto, The Founder, or La Viro, The Man." "Did you ever meet him?" IF "No, but I have met two who knew him well. One was there when LaViro preached the first time, seven days after the Stranger had talked to him."' "La Viro is definitely male? Not a woman?" "Oh, yes!" Sam sighed deeply and said, "That's a great weight off my mind. If the founder had turned out to be Mary Baker Eddy I would have curled up and died." "What?" "Never mind," Sam said, grinning. "I wrote a book about her once. I wouldn't want to meet her; she'd scalp me alive. But some of the wild mystical things you told me reminded me of her." "Except for the ka, everything in our explanation is based on the physical. And the ka is physical but at right angles, you might say, to our reality. We believe that it is science, the science of The Ancients, which has given us a physical resurrection. There's nothing supernatural about anything, except our belief in The Creator, of course. The rest is all science." "Like Mary Baker Eddy's religion?" Sam asked. "I do not know of her." "So how do we attain this salvation?" "By becoming love. And that implies, of course, that we do not offer violence, even in self-defense. We believe that we can become love only by attaining a certain transcendent state and that comes through self-knowledge. So far most of mankind has not learned how to use dreamgum; man has abused the drug, just as he abuses everything." "And you think you have become love, whatever that phrase means?" "Not yet. But I am on the way." "Through dreamgum?" "Not just with it. It helps. But you have to act, too, you have to preach and suffer for your belief. And learn not to hate. Learn to love." "So that is why you oppose tny Riverboat? You think that we are wasting our time by building it?" "It's a goal that will bring no one any good. So far it has resulted in the devastation of the land, in greed and pain and bloodshed, in anxiety and treachery. In hate, hate, hate! And for what? So you can have what nobody else has, a giant boat of metal propelled by electricity, the apex of the technology this planet offers, a ship of fools. So you can journey to the headwaters of The River. When you get there, then what? You should be journeying to the headwaters of the soul!" "There are some things you don't know," Sam said. His smugness was soured by a vision. There was the devil, crouching in the darkness, whispering in his ear. But someone had crouched in the darkness and whispered in the ear of the founder of the Church, "too. Was the Church's Stranger the devil? The being who had come to Samuel Clemens had said that the others were the devils and he wanted to save mankind. The devil would say something like that, of course. "Don't my words touch your heart at all?" Goering said. Sam rapped his chest with his fist and said, "Yes, I do believe I have a touch of indigestion." Goering made a fist and clamped his lips. "Watch out, you'll lose your love," Sam said and walked away. But he did not feel particularly triumphant. It was a fact that he did have a little stomach upset. Invincible ignorance always upset him, even though he knew he should just laugh at it. T he afternoon of the next day arrived. Sam Clemens and John Lackland had been arguing all morning. John said that he would never apologize for anything he said to a commoner, especially to a man called Abdullah, a Saracen. Finally Sam, exasperated past caution and reasonableness, said, "We can't afford to have the bauxite cut off by Hacking. We can't afford anything that will put a stop to building the Riverboat. Maybe you're doing this to force a war between us and Soul City. It isn't going to work. Your Majesty!" Sam had been walking back and forth, waving a panatela as he spoke. John sprawled before the oaken round table in Sam's pilothouse. Joe Miller sat in a corner on a big chair specially built for him. The massive palaeolithic Mongolian, Zaksksromb, stood behind John. Suddenly, Sam whirled and planked both fists on the table. Leaning on the table, his cigar in one corner of his mouth, the reddish tangle of his eyebrows drawn down, he snarled at John. "You gave in once, at Runnymede, when you signed the Magna Carta. It was about the only decent thing you ever did during your reign -- and there are some who say you had your fingers crossed then. Well, this is another showdown, John, Your Majesty. You apologize to Abdullah, who has a right to an apology -- or I'll call a special session of the Council and we'll determine your fitness to continue as co-Consul!" John glowered at him for a full minute at the least. Then he said, "Your threats don't scare me. But it's evident that you would sooner plunge our land into civil war than go to war with Soul City. I do not IF understand this madness, but then a rational man always has trouble understanding irrationality. So -- I will apologize, why not? A king can afford to be gracious to a commoner. It costs him nothing and enhances his graciousness." John rose and swaggered out, his huge bodyguard behind him. Ten minutes later Sam heard that John had appeared at the state guest house and offered his apology. Abdullah X accepted it, though sullenly. It was evident that he had been ordered to do so. Just before the factory whistles announced the end of lunch hour, Cawber entered. He sat down without waiting for Sam to invite him. Sam raised his eyebrows, because this was the first time that this had happened. There was something indefinable in Cawber's attitude. Sam, watching him carefully, listening to every inflection of his voice, decided that his attitude was that of a slave who has decided to be a slave no more. be the emissary to Soul City. He sat leaning forward, huge black arms resting on the oak, his hands spread out. He spoke in Esperanto and, like many people, often in the present tense, using an adverb of time to indicate future or past if he wanted to clarify. Cawber's team had talked to every one of the approximately three thousand undoubted Negroes (there was some confusion of classification about some of the prehistorics). A third of these was Soul City in exchange for Hacking's unwanted citizens. Most were late twentieth-century blacks. The others maintained that they had work that gave them prestige, that they liked being on an equal footing with the whites and that they did not want to give up their chance to be on the Riverboat. The latter was probably the biggest determinant, Sam thought. He was not the only one who dfeamed of the Riverboat. It drove through the minds of many during sleep, gleaming like a jewel with a firefly trapped inside it. Firebrass and his people were requested to come to the conference room. Firebrass was late because he had been inspecting the airplane. He was laughing about its quaintness, fragility and slowness, and yet he was envious that von Richthofen would be the one to fly it. "You'll certainly get a chance to fly it, loo," Sam said. "Provided that you are still here, of course, when -- " Firebrass waved aside Sam's assurances, became serious. "What is your decision, gentlemen, regarding my government's proposal?" Sam looked at John, who gestured that Sam had the floor. John intended that any ill feelings should first be directed at Sam. "This is a democracy," Sam said. "And we can't tell our citizens to get out unless they've been guilty of illegal behavior. So, as I see it -- as we see it -- any citizen of Parolando may go to Soul City if he wishes. I think we actually reached basic agreement on this when we last met. It will be up to your government to negotiate with each citizen. As for taking in your Arabs and Dravidians and so forth -- we'll give them a chance to come with us if they want: but we reserve the right to get rid of them if they don't work out. Where they'll go then is up to them," "Well," Firebrass said, "I don't suppose Hacking wants anybody City, no matter how black that person is." "What about the shipments of minerals?" Sam said, "Will those be discontinued during the negotiations?" "I really couldn't say," Firebrass replied. "I doubt it, but I'd have fo confer. Of course, you'll have to keep up your present rate of ore and weapons 'to us before the price is raised." "I notice you said w, not might be,"" Sam said. "Anything I say is subject to confirmation or negation from Soul City," Firebrass said, smiling. The rest of the conference was that Cawber would go to Soul City as Parolando's ambassador if the Carta could be changed to arrange it. Everything else was still up in the air. Sam Clemens received the impression that Firebrass did not intend to speed things up. Quite things drag on or even to put his own foot on the brake if things showed signs of accelerating. He wanted to remain in Parolando and Sam could only think that he wished to do so in order to spy. Perhaps he also wanted to stir up trouble. Later, when he discussed the meeting with John, he found some variations to his conclusions. John agreed that Firebrass was a spy but he could not see why Firebrass would stir up trouble. "He would want the boat to be built as swiftly as possible. The sooner it's completed, the sooner Hacking will try to seize it. Do you think for one moment that Hacking doesn't intend to get the boat? Do you think for one moment that we have a single neighbor who doesn't intend to try for the boat? Arthur made the abortive attempt to take us over because of his hatred for me. He should have waited until the boat was nearly completed and then. IF with Kieomenes and the Ulmaks, launched ail the force they could mount in an all-out attack. As things worked out he and Kieomenes were killed and lyeyasu has invaded their countries while their successors are fighting among themselves." "According to our spies, he's winning, too," Sam said. "If he consolidates his state with the other two, then he'll be a very formidable enemy." And so will you be, John Lackland, Sam thought. Of all the people ni have to watch after the boat is built, youll bear the closest watching... and his delegation would remain at Soul City's embassy while the negotiations went on. "It's nice to have you," Sam said. "But Soul City has its own industries. I know it's been using our ore to make weapons and several things our spies can't find out about." Firebrass looked surprised and then he laughed uproariously. "You twist my stick, stymate!" he said in English. Then, in Esperanto, "Well, why shouldn't we be frank? I like that. Yes, we know you have spies among us just as you know we have ours here. Who doesn't have his men in his neighbors' lands? But what are you getting at?" "You're the most technically trained man Hacking has. You're a Ph. D. You're in charge of the factories and of research and development. So why does Hacking send you here when he needs you there?" "I've set everything up to run smoothly. Soul City doesn't need me right now -- and I was bored. I wanted to come here, where it's at." "So you can see what we're doing, like our Mark I handguns and our airplane and the amphibian and its steam cannon?" Firebrass grinned and nodded. "Yes. Why not? If I don't see these things, someone else will." Sam relaxed. He said, "Have a cigar. You can look all you want. We're not doing anything you wouldn't have figured out for yourself, except for the steam cannon maybe. That, by the way, is my invention. Come along with me. I'm very proud of it and want you to see it. It's almost finished." Firedragon  rested inside its supporting framework of timbers. It was silvery gray and shaped like a flat-bottomed boat but had seven huge metal wheels with plastic tires on each side. Twin screws protected by a screen protruded from its rear. Its length was thirty feet, its beam ten and its height was twelve feet. Three turrets stuck out from the upper deck. One held the pilot and captain and radio operator, though at the moment Paroiando had ho radios. The center turret was higher than the others and the barrel of a short stubby weapon encased in wood projected from it. The rear turret was designed for gunners who would be armed with Mark I handguns and perhaps rifles. 'The amphibian burns wood alcohol to generate steam," Sam said. "Let's go inside, through this hatch in the side here. You'll notice that the boiler takes up about a third of the interior. There's a good reason for that, as you'll see." They climbed up a ladder into the interior of the center turret, which was lit by a single light bulb. Firebrass exclaimed at this -- it was the only electric light bulb he had ever seen on The River. Sam explained that it was powered by a fuel cell. "And here is the Superdooper Steam Machine Cannon," he said. He pointed at the cylinder sticking out of the gray bulkhead of the turret. Underneath it were a pistollike butt and a trigger. Firebrass got behind it, put his finger on the trigger and looked out through the opening above the barrel. He raised and lowered the weapon. "There'll be a chair for the operator to sit in," Sam said. "He'll be able to rotate the turret any way he wants by pushing pedals. He can depress the gun about twenty degrees up or down. The steam from the boiler is the motive power for the eighty-caliber plastic bullets. The gun is fired from an open breech. That is, there's no bullet in the barrel when the trigger is pulled. Pulling the trigger releases a catch which permits the breech block to move forward, impelled by a spring. During its forward travel the breech block picks up a plastic bullet from the clip and pushes it into the breech. Just before the block reaches the breech the camming lugs on either side engage in their slots and turn the breech block a quarter turn to the right, thus locking the breech. You follow me?" Firebrass nodded. "Good. As soon as the quarter turn is completed, the inlet channel in the breech block comes into line with the feed channel from the highpressure steam line. This allows hot, say approximately four hundred-degree F., steam to enter the chamber in the breech block. The plastic cartridge is forced through the barrel by the expansion of steam. At the same time the steam pressure, acting against the rear of the chamber, begins to force the breech block back. Because of the greater weight of the block, however, the block doesn't begin to move until the bullet has already cleared the muzzle of the rifle. "As the block begins to move backward, the camming lugs move in the camming slots and turn the IF bolt a quarter turn to the left, thus shutting off the steam. Then the breech block returns to its original position. If the trigger is still held back, the operation is repeated indefinitely." Firebrass said, "Fm impressed. But won't the gun operate most efficiently if its temperature is the same as the incoming high-pressure steam? That way, less of the steam's energy would be used to heat the gun and this means more steam to propel the bullet. Ah, I see! You do have a hollow jacket around the barrel. The steam travels through that before it enters the weapon itself, right?" "Yes. There's an insulating jacket of plaster encased in wood. Note that bleeder valve. It permits the gun to be heated up before use -- a few seconds before it's fired. If that isn't done the gun might jam. And since the gun's maximum temperature is the same as the steam in the boiler, there's no danger of burning up the barrel. You can use the gun like a fire hose. In fact, that'll be about the only way it'll be effective. The accuracy of a light plastic bullet with such comparatively low muzzle velocity isn't high." F irebrass was far from being depressed because of the military superiority the amphibian would give Parolando. This probably was because he was planning on building one for Soul City. Or, if Parolando had one, then perhaps he might build two. In which case, Parolando would have to build three. Soul City could not outbuild Parolando. But Parolando could not cut the supplies off, because then Soul Scity would cut off the bauxite, cryolite, platinum and iridium. The exhilaration from showing off his deadly invention whistled out almost audibly from Sam. The only solution to the problem, if Soul City did start a weapons race, would be to smash Soul City and take direct control of the minerals. This meant putting off the building of the Riverboat. And it also meant offending the two states, Publiujo and Tifonujo, that lay between Parolando and Soul City. And if those two states got together, they would be formidable, what with the weapons that Parolando had to give them in exchange for (heir wood. Sam had thought that that potentiality was bad enough. But a few days later lyeyasu completed his conquest of his neighboring states and sent a mission to Parolando. He made no demands that could not be met. In fact, in one way his proposals were helpful. He said that his nation had lost enough trees and he would like to give them a chance to grow again -- but for an increase in the number of weapons from Parolarge quantity of wood and of excrement for their gunpowder industry. He would invade the territories across The River and take their wood from them. What it amounted to was that Parolando would be paying lyeyasu to collect the wood. It would be cheaper and also a lot less painful for Parolandoj, who would not have to do their own killing, enslaving or raiding. And Sam Clemens would have one more thing to rob him of sleep. John Lackland thought the proposal excellent. "Our factories are turning out weapons efficiently," he said. "We can afford export more. And we must build a fleet of Firedragons, so that the swords we give these people will be easily overpowered by our machines." "When are we going to start building the Riverboat?" Sam asked. but the next day Van Boom, Velitsky, and O'Brien, his chief engineers, brought him the first rough overall sketches. They were drawn in black on white plastic boards with a pencil connected to a fuel cell. The magnetic field at the tip of the pencil rearranged the loose and very thin covering of particles within its range. The lines remained polarized until a reverse field was passed over them. Thus the demand for paper for drawings was greatly cut down and the plans could be changed as desired. Firebrass said he would like to help build the boat. Permission was given, though John objected at first. Sam replied that the more help they had, the faster the plans would move. And he did not see how any amount of knowledge on Firebrass's part would enable him to steal the boat. Though Sam did not tell John, he had an idea about Firebrass. That was to get him so involved, so "het up" about the boat that he would take an offer of a berth on the vessel. The machinery necessary to roll out the first plates for the hull was almost finished. The dam had been finished a week ago and the water The aluminum wires of the generators which would be turned by the waterfall from the dam were being wound. The prototype batacitor, which would be four stories high, would be finished in a month, if enough materials were available. Five hundred missionaries of the Church of the Second Chance asked for sanctuary in Parolando a few days later, lyeyasu had kicked them out of his new state, promising various exquisite tortures if they tried to sneak back. Sam did not hear about them immediately IF because.he was up at the dam. The Chancers refused to go when John sent word to them to leave immediately. John Lackland, hearing this, smiled grimly, tugged at his lion-colored hair, and swore his favorite oath, "By the teeth of Godr' Sam was at the dam to supervise the installation of tons of dynamite inside the hollow walls. This was to be one more trick up his sleeve, a last-ditch operation and perhaps a suicidal one -- if ever an enemy were about to make asuccessful invasion. Von Richthofen, red-faced and blowing hard from his run up the hill, told him of the arrival of the Chancers and their refusal to move. He did not mention John. Sam told Lothar to tell the Chancers that he would be down in the evening. They could wait for him but were not to move outside a radius of twenty yards from the grailstone near which they had landed. For a moment he considered ordering them to leave at once and telling the soldiers that they could pound them a little w ith the Hats of their swords if they wished. He was hot and sweating and covered with cement dust, and he felt an especial animosity toward the Chancers. Here was a world blessed by the absence of flies and mosquitoes and humans, the Chancers, were trying to fill the gap. The rumbling and splash of giant mortars pouring out concrete, the yells of the straw bosses and the scraping of shovels and clatter of iron wooden-wheeled barrows kept Sam from hearing the explosions that came a half-hour later. He knew nothing of what had happened until von Richthofen came running toward him again. Sam felt as if he would come loose at the joints and slump into a puddle. John had tested out the new guns on the Chancers. A hundred Mark I flintlocks had killed almost five hundred men and women in three minutes. John himself had fired and loaded ten times, using the last five bullets to finish off the wounded. About thirty women, the most beautiful, had been spared. These had been taken to John's palace. L ong before he reached the water's edge, Sam saw the big crowd gathered around the grailstone. He sent Lothar ahead of him to clear the way. The crowd parted before them, like the Red Sea before Moses, he thought, but the Red Sea was before him after he got through the parting. The bodies were piled against each other, covered with blood, their flesh torn, bones shattered by the big-caliber bullets. In his ninetyseven years of life Sam had never grown accustomed to the silence of the dead. It seemed to hang over cloud. The mouth that would not speak again, the brain that could not think... It did no good to remember that tomorrow these same people, in fresh and healthy bodies, would be up and doing somewhere along the banks. The effect of death could not be diluted with inteN lectualizing. John was issuing orders about the disposal of the bodies to the soap and skin factories. He grinned at Sam like a bad boy caught pulling the cat's tail. '"This is a massacre!" Sam shouted. "A massacre! Unjustified! Unforgivable! There was no reason for it, you bloody-minded, have been, you murdering dog, all you ever will be! Swine! Swine! Swine!" John lost his smile and took a step back as Sam, his hands clenched, moved close to him. The huge massive-boned Zaksksromb, holding a big club of oak with steel spikes set in its end, started toward Sam. Lothar von Richthofen shouted, "None of thatleave him alone or I call Joe Miller! And I'll shoot the first man who makes a move toward Sam." Sam looked behind him. Lothar was holding a big pistol in his hands and it was pointed at John. John's dark skin paled, and his eyes opened wide. Even the light blue irises seemed to become paler. Later Sam wished that he had told Lothar to fire. Even though the hundred pistoleers were John's men, they might have hesitated if John had been killed at the first shot. They were surrounded by armed men and women, most of whom were not fond of John and almost all of whom were shocked by the slaughter. They might have withheld their fire. Even if they had not, Sam could have thrown himself down to the ground and the first shots might have missed. After that, who knew what would have happened? But it was no good fantasizing. He had not given the order. Nevertheless, he had to take some strong and immediate action. If he let John get away with this, he would lose everybody's respect, not to mention his own. And he might as well resign his Consulship. In which case he would lose the Riverboat. He turned his head slightly, though not so much that he could not keep an eye on John. He saw Livy's white face and big dark eyes; she looked as if she were going to vomit. He ignored her and called to Cyrano de Bergerac, who was standing on the edge of the inner circle, his long rapier in his hand. "Captain de Bergerac!" Sam IF pointed at John. "Arrest the coConsul." hand, but he did not bring up its muzzle. He said in a mild voice, "I protest. I told them to get out at once and they refused to go. I warned them and they still refused -- so I ordered them shot. What difference does it make, really? They will be alive tomorrow." Cyrano marched straight to John, stopped, saluted, and said, "Your weapons, sire." Zaksksromb growled and lifted his spiked club. "No, Zak," John Lackland said. "According to the Carta one Consul can arrest the other if he thinks the other is acting contrary to the Carta. I won't be under arrest long." He handed Cyrano his gun, butt first, unbuckled his belt and gave it to Cyrano. Its sheaths held a long knife and short sword. "I will return to my palace while you and the Council decide my fate," he said. "According to the Carta you must convene wjthin an hour after the arrest and have a decision in two hours, as long as no national emergency interferes." He walked away, Cyrano behind hinFi. John's men hesitated a moment and then, at the thundered orders of Zaksksromb, followed John to the palace. Sam B wmM B MeHMnni hQNlllM Frank Nerbtrt retnras tn the Ainevrarld of Arrakit for an epic of hnperM intrigiio anS human ecoloQr-an opic that spans tbo nniwrso. lhat's why wo can teH you whore it oiMs -- Wo're reprinting last, but your booksailor may be out ot stock. Order this end othar Frank Herbert books to#oy: I (N#)#( I I copies of mmm sm i I (#) #C I I .oof Tiff cm I I (#) #C I I (#) # I I Name j I Address i I City te Zip j I Include list price plus a dime postage for j tifte. J Dept, milk # Madison Ave., New York # stared after them. He had expected more resistance. And tTien it occurred to him that John knew very well that Sam Clemens had to do just what he did or lose face. And John knew Sam well enough to know that Sam might want to avoid a decision that could lead to civil war, but he would do so if he thought his Riverboat endangered. So John had gone along with him. John did not want to force a showdown. Not now. He had satisfied his bloodlust for the moment. The Councilmen would meet and find that, legally, John was within his rights. Morally, he was not. But then his supporters would argue that even there he was justified. After all, the dead would be alive again and the lesson to the Second Chancers would be invaluable. They would steer clear of Parolando for a long time. And surely Sam Clemens would have to admit that this was desirable. If the Chancers continued to make converts, the Riverboat would never be built. Moreover, other states, less weakened with the Chancer philosophy, would invade Parolando. And he, Sam Clemens, would say that next John's supporters would be claiming that it was all right to torture people. After all, the pain could last only so long, and any injury would be healed would be justified, because, after all, the woman wasn't going to be made pregnant or diseased -- and if she got hurt, too bad. Kill her and she'd be all right in the morning. Never mind the mental damage. A little dreamgum would cure that. No, Sam would say, it's a question, not of murder, but of rights. If you killed a man, you removed him without his consent to a place so far away he could walk a thousand years along the Riverbank and never get back. You took him away from his love, his friends, his home. Force was force and it was always... Oh, oh! He'd better watch himself! "'Sam!" a lovely voice said. He turned. Livy was still pale, but her eyes looked as if they were normal. '"Sam! What about the women he carried off?" "Where's my head?" he said aloud. "Come on, Lothar!" Seeing the ten-foot high Miller halfway across the plain, he waved at him and the titanthrop turned to intercept them. Lothar ordered a hundred archers who had just arrived to follow them. Near the great log building, he slowed down. The ex-king must have realized what he had done by now and he might be prepared to fight if he thought it was the only thing he could do. IF U you can't aim a bvllat at tha anamy -- try aiming tha anamy at your buUat! scraping on metal, shrieking in the narrow confines of the capsule. The walls reflected it, piling harmonic on harmonic until it ceased to be a noise and became a force. The force battered at Kunihei Katsura's sweating face and darkened the lines of fatigua He unconsciously cringed away and for the first time thought of reaching for his pistol. If it got in he would have only one shot. He glanced at the laser cannon control grid linked to the larger gun on the roof. Green light: No target. The alien was too close to his life-support bubble for the system to register it. The thing was lunging against the walls, the screech rising to an unbearable pitch. Katsura lifted the safety on his pistol and braced for the attack. Then he realized with a start that the thing was not getting in. The shrill rasp did not give way to a tearing sound as the organic sheets yielded to armored claws. It stopped quickly and circled back around the small hemisphere to the viewport. Beyond, on the floor of the barren gray canyon that stretched away for two miles, lay the mangled wet clumps of things that had been men. The scene was framed in the port, stark under the white glare of an alien star. A reddish-black object fell across his field of vision, and it was a moment before Katsura could recognize the claw with its razor edges. Abruptly the full body of the thing filled the port, standing upright on its hind legs to bring its full weight to bear on the bubble. Ten feet long -- at least. Its underbelly was yellow-green, covered with an oHy liquid that seemed to ooze from between overlapping platelets. Katsura stopped an impulse to fire point-blank at the thing. A projectile weapon would shatter the tempered organiform and the alien could reach him with one incredibly swift slash. It was something like an insect, if an insect ever had two eyes mounted over each of its eight legs. Or if an insect ever killed twenty-three men. The thing scraped frantically at the smooth surface of the bubble, slipping as it tried to gain a hold. Despite its speed it was massive. If it ever got a hold and reached the top of the hemisphere its weight would surely collapse the bubble. Katsura wiped moisture from his brow. His mind raced over the last ten minutes, trying to think of a way out. 'is it going to get in, Kunihei?" He started. The computer's voice was tinny as it came through the comm line speaker mounted on the bubble wall. IF (Computer, Analog and Services), partly because its efficiency cut so severely into the number of men needed for an exploratory ship. It got lonely out among the of the standard machine-human interface equipment which would have taken the edge off its knowit-all nature. No space for luxury out here. "Why didn't you say anything about that thing coming?" he said sharply. "Perimeter radar detected no signal attributable to a moving object." "Well, do you see it now?" he shouted. Great time for the system to fail. "Yes, Kunihei. Do you think it is going to get in?" "No. If it could, it already would have." He subsided, thinking. He looked at his wrist watch. Had it been only minutes ago when he'd heard a strangled gasp over his suit radio and the rush of air past a microphone? He had turned to see the insect slicing Hillary almost in half with one long arching cut, and three other men lying where they had fallen. The laser cannon was already warmed up for testing and Katsura was the only man in the bubble. The gun fired as soon as it identified the other members of the expedition and Katsura. expected to see the alien burned instantly. But it wasn't. When the rock had boiled away, there was no body -- and an instant later the monster was on the other side of the canyon, behind Davis. It hadn't run the distance; nothing could. His warning shout to Davis did no good -- before the words were out, the man was without a head. It went that way for the rest. The tracking and aiming were done by the ship's computer, but the mechanical construction of the directing optics limited its response time. The cannon was just a little too slow, and the men were even slower. Some of them fired with their own weapons, but no one hit. One by one they were chopped down and lay still under the harsh numbing whiteness of an alien high noon. Those minutes had seemed unreal, a fantasy, the dark nightmare of a tortured mind. The expedition had never suspected life here, on a desiccated, barren world. The planet had no name -- they were its discoverers -- and fitted in neatly just above the minimum standards for a life-supporting world: # Earth mass, average equatorial temperature of # ""F., air with a heavy nitrogen and CO # content and little oxygen, no oceans, no satellite, little water in the air (though there was some snow at the poles). But the surface was cratered and bleak, no large scale vegetation could be seen and. the computer reported no signiHcant radiation anywhere on the EM spectrum. Not even a magnetosphere to give noise. Still, there were a few scattered cities. Dried husks of buildings, wrecked vehicles, gray dust drifting in the angled streets. Someone had used this world as a base. They orbited for three days. The high-resolution television showed nothing moving in the streets. So they went down. "the tapes of the assault. The radar and microwave both show a sequence of blips of about one-second duration over a thirtysecond interval. Radar signal constant over the duration; but microwave pulse only at beginning and end. Radar shows the locations as. somewhat random. With a drift in our direction, however." "So that's the alien." "Yes." "And your power systems didn't have any failures which would cause those signals?" "No." Standing futilely inside the capsule, Katsura had time to notice the metallic device strapped over the beetlerlike armor of the thing. The insect touched it every time, just before it vanished. "Teleportation." It could be nothing else. "That was my deduction," said the flat voice of the computer. Mankind hadn't found it yet, didn't even know if it was possible. Welt, he thought wryly, we know now. Probably the only reason the thing didn't materialize inside the bubble itself was the small size of the interior. There must be some law against materializing in the space already occupied by another object. So it was trying to break in, instead. Suddenly the insect seemed to lose interest in Katsura. It stopped clawing at the smooth surface and lay against the window, staring inward with a pair of eyes. The two pupils in each enlarged to accommodate the darker interior and carefully swept about the room, ignoring the man. There wasn't much to see. Aside from the control grid comm unit and some power tools for installation, the cramped room was barren. It was to have been a maintenance and defense outpost on the perimeter of camp. The inspection Tinished, it scuttled down the side and reached for the panel at its middle. Just as its forelegs touched the ground it vanished. Before Katsura could raise his IF head the creature was near the other wall of the canyon, by Davis' body. The automatic tracker clicked once and fired, but the spurt of dust and gas thrown up by the bright red beam couldn't conceal that the thing had vanished too soon. The body was also gone. The gun continued scanning the area. In the silence, the scene took on an ominous peacefulness. Then the insect was back and Katsura glimpsed it lifting another body slightly clear of the ground before it was gone. The cannon optics swiveledv pulsed again. Too late. Five more men were taken before he noticed the white area on the alien's back. At first Katsura didn't know what it was and then he couldn't believe it. But when there were only two bodies left to collect, there was no mistake. They were all hanging by their hands, tied together along some kind of belt. Stripped bare, their suits and clothes gone. Like something he had seen long ago in a slaughterhouse. His training stopped him from being sick. Nausea abated after a moment, though he had to avoid looking closely at the alien. It picked up the last body and vanished again, the cannon futilely following with a shot. After a pause it reappeared, its load now heavy and shifting roughly back and forth, as it moved. The insect was out of the camp perimeter now, a half mile away. The tracker had not made its final fix, due to the change in distance, before the thing was gone again. It suddenly became visible slightly farther away, winked out again to appear an instant later at the other side of the canyon. Erratically it followed a zig-zag path, gradually making its way back toward the city. The cannon was hopelessly lost. In a moment the insect was too far away to distinguish it from the gnarled rocks that dotted the plain. The broken spires of the dead city swallowed it up. The thing was alone, probably, the last remnant of an alien outpost on this hostile planet. Thrown back on its own resources for survival, vicious from a constant struggle. Lonely. Hungry. K atsura noticed that his clothes were wet, his body trembling. With a jagged sigh he sank to the floor. For a long time he simply lay there, breathing deeply and staring up at the stars through the viewport. He had thought of them as friendly lights, beacons of home, but now they seemed ominously impartial. Gradually, reluctantly, the panic began to seep out of his body as have you sent a signal out to the other exploration teams?" "Yes, Vm programed to notify all sister teams and the flagship immediately upon any violent human-alien interaction. I also sent a notification of the reduction of crew strength below one half." Good. You could always depend on the tidy mind of the computer. Exploration teams never operated far from one another, especially at this distance from the home worlds. He'd have help within a few days if he could sit tight and hold on. "Kunihei, you have approximately thirty minutes of air left under normal consumption." Katsura blinked. He had been about to check his inventory. The encounter must have taken a lot of air. They had always told him to breathe slowly in tense situations to correct for the reflex to gulp it in. "There is no reserve air in the bubble, Kunihei. You will have to come back to the ship." Automatically, he began pulling on the thin pressure suit. The best time to go get supplies -- or reach the ship -- was now. The alien would be busy and it would take time to get here from the city. Still, the thing was amazingly fast. sect can teleport, why did it take the time to evade by zig-zagging back to the city? Why not go directly?" Lines in the tired face deepened. It wasn't that the alien could jump only short distance; when it was picking up the bodies the thing had gone so far it was nearly beyond sight. "The only information relating to discontinuous displacement in my second-level banks is the known limit on time travel." No time to think. But there had to be a pattern somewhere. down as much as you can and switch over to your special problem-solving program. Figure this thing out. I'm going to make it on back to the ship." Katsura struggled wearily to his feet and looked out. The graceful blue curves of the vessel stood out against the dark sky. A half mile away were the burnished metal canisters of oxygen tanks and supplies brought from the ship with tractor beams. A smaller pile of air tanks lay only a short distance away. He should be able to make it to them and back. Following Katsura's order, the computer began to alter itself. Emergency Heuristic Program began to activate special subroutines to reassign memory space. Assessment criteria altered, self-consisIF tency parameters relaxed. Microfilmed references were reintegrated into direct-access memory locations. Glancing out the port, Katsura slipped into the tiny lock and was out the other side before the cycling was finished. He set out in a rapid lope, taking longer steps in the lighter gravity. His breath began to come in short gasps. T he emergency program had split the higher centers of the operations computer into four sub-programs. The first scanned memory for any information on spatial or temporal displacement, gradually working farther and farther afield. This memory was fed to the Advocate and Critic sections where hypotheses were created and discarded. The best went on to the Analyst, which applied them to the situation and developed strategy. B linking against the glare, Katsura looked down the canyon toward the city. At first he didn't believe it. He slammed to a halt, hoping he was wrong. Far down the canyon, flitting rapidly from one point to another and coming closer, was the insect. Somehow it knew. Panic seized him. He turned on his heel and ran wildly in the other direction. With every step he took Katsura could feel the claws poised behind him, about to slice through suit and flesh. A glance over his shoulder. The creature was on the edge of the field now, only a few jumps from the life-support capsule. Katsura dug in hard for the last few steps, thrusting forward to catch the lever of the air lock. He fumbled with it for an agonizing moment and the door swung open. As he rolled through the narrow passage, he could see the dark figure materialize outside the lock and quickly closed theouter section and dogged it. Something heavy clanged against the door as it sealed and Katsura sprawled on the floor of the bubble. The clawing sound came again and the alien came around to the port. It stayed there for a moment, staring down at the man from a set of unblinking eyes, and then disappeared. It reappeared in the rocks nearby, then teleported to the stack of oxygen tanks and moved on to the path back down the canyon. The strange zig-zagging started and in a moment it was lost in the ruins of the city. A nalyst had scanned all work on time travel, knew the limit that basic theory and experiment set on any time displacement: roughly one hour, before costs exponentiated and became astronomical. Critic pointed out that those experiments were done in the laboratories, not out in the field. Advocate replied that space is reasonably isotropic, time is not. It did not seem likely there would be a limit on spatial teleportation. The discussion continued. taking him longer to catch his breath. His lungs heaved desperately to draw in air, gradually slowing. He bit his lip. He hadn't expected it to give out this soon. Filtration systems being what they are, the first sign that the cyclers were scraping the bottom of the barrel was a surplus of carbon dioxide. Lungs react to this excess and not to the lack of oxygen. A man's last moments of oxygen starvation, with bursting capillaries and straining heart, are not pleasant ones. There was no time to wait, to marshal his strength or give the alien a chance to relax its guard. The air inside the bubble was becoming flat and thick, heavy with an oily musk. He bent down and opened his air line. It was much harder to breathe near the floor. That meant a gradient of CO# content had already been set up in the cabin. Katsura took a last breath of the capsule's air and sealed his suit again. Its supply was slightly better, but the smell of his own body was in every breath he took. He looked through the port. The alien sun was slowly lowering almost directly behind the city, casting shadows across the plain. Seeing the creature's approach would be harder now, against the reddening glare of sunset. The small stack of oxygen tanks stood only two hundred yards away. It seemed impossible that the alien could have reached him before he could cross that distance, tired as he was. But it had. A dvocate and Critic subprograms continued to assess the literature of space-time, avoiding misinterpretation by calling the original papers from the physics section of the microfilm library. Einstein, Minkowski, Wheeler, Littenberg, relativity, inertial frame, world line... A world line diagram taken from the Littenberg formulation of relativity showed promise, passed the scrutiny of Critic, moved on to Analyst. the lock doors. He was halfway out before the small box caught his eye. It was attached to the smooth surface above the lock by IF suction cups and had a lever that was tripped by the opening of the door. A small light winked on simultaneously. Katsura flipped the lever back with his hand and the light went out. He scrambled back inside, secured the door and watched through the port. The insect appeared soon along the erratic path it had used before, but stopped in a moment and studied the situation from behind a rock, where the cannon couldn't reach it. After a slight hesitation it appeared again, rapidly teleporting through the steps back to the city. It had probably guessed he had found the alarm and would be watching in the distance for him to come out. A nalyst reviewed the theory. The world-line concept was employed in relativity from the beginning, going all the way back to Minkowski. It was the path which described both the location and the time of every event in the history of an object. In space-time the world-line wound from birth to death. Scientists and writers, including the great H.G. Wells, had assumed time travelers would return to their same location -- if you started in the laboratory, you would come out of your machine in the same spot, at another time. Otherwise, the planet would have moved in the duration, and the traveler could, emerge somewhere light-years away, in space. But the alien represented an unknown. The insect might find it just as convenient to travel back along its own world line, flitting through incidents in its own past and points where it had been, until it reached the location it wanted. Say, a time when it had been somewhere on the plain beyond this capsule, before the expedition arrived. Then the alien would keep its place, as Wells had visualized, while it moved forward in time. And emerge seemingly at the same instant, displaced in space. The same as teleportation. K atsura choked and his surroundings came rushing back. The air was really foul now, curling through his helmet with a weight of its own. He didn't have time to speculate. It was either make another run for it or stay here and strangle. He jerked the lock door open and slipped through. The light on the box outside flashed on as he emerged. Should have smashed that while I was out here, he thought. No time now. Almost without hope he began the long weary lope toward the distant supplies. Through the mist that began to cloud his vision he could still make out the signs of slashed pressure suits and splattered blood that marked the spots where the rest of the expedition had died. A nalyst reformulated the picture. Space and time are like two lines on a plane, at right angles to each other. It might be possible to travel along either of them independently. Teleportation is simply moving along the space line, but man's idea of time travel is like the long side of a triangle, shuttling through space and time simultaneously to reach an event in the past or future. But instead of travellhg along the space axis for teleportation, the alien was taking the long way around,, down the hypotenuse and up the time line. Either way, it could reach the same point in space-time. But a path like that should produce a pattern in local space. Analyst called for a graphing of all locations the insect had taken up. The points began to be plott with appropriate error bars on a topographical map of the area between the ship and city. A pattern emerged. All the points were clearly on three paths around the area. Preliminary geological constructs of the local region indicated these paths would be preferred by heavy objects moving over the terrain. outcropping, regained his balance and ran on. The cannon behind him sent a fiery red beam off to the left, shattering rock and fusing it in midflight. Katsura peered through the condensation on the face plate of his suit. The insect was zig-zagging down the canyon, quickly oscillating from one location to another. In the silence, disturbed only by Katsura's own ragged breathing, the ajien had an almost ghostlike quality. It moved toward him. He could see he wasn't going to make it. The tanks were still too far away and the insect would reach them before he could. He was just too tired. A nalyst watched the insect advancing from point to point down the valley. It was all deaf now. The alien traveled into the past, then came forward. It had to reappear in places it had already been, the space components of its own world line. Apparently the alien had visited the field near Katsura's life-support bubble often, and so could find many spots which would serve as end points for its transits. But it had never been near the location of the life-, support bubble itself. That meant it could not maneuver well there; the insect was forced to stand IF close, in a little circle around the bubble. To avoid the laser cannon. There it would be vulnerable.IVnation for the alien's aclions," the words crackled over his helmet speaker. "You may be able to eliminate him if you can get to the bubble." Without a word, Katsura turned and dashed back the way he had come. Glancing over his shoulder, he saw the insect nearing the edge of the field. It couldn't miss seeing his fleeting form at this distance. The thing would try to head him off. T he computer was calculating probabilities of the appearance of the alien for the possible locations available to it. The thing would try to minimize the energy necessary to make the jump by choosing the smallest time shift possible. Therefore, it would appear where it had stood last -- directly in front of the viewport. "Kunihei, stop about twenty feet in front of the port. Start firing your pistol continuously into it." K atsura heard him distantly through the roar in his ears. He was beyond the outcropping of rocks, the first jump the insect had made from the bubble back down to the canyon. He took five more strides, his leg muscles straining to push him forward, and fell into a rolling dive. When he came up again the pistol was in his hand. The gun bucked a little as it went off and a slight pock could be heard through the thin atmosphere. The pellet made a neat hole in the bubble, followed by a quiet gush of air as the inner shell was pierced. The shot would have to be on its way when the alien materialized or the thing would be gone before he could get off another. He squeezed slowly and a second round shattered the viewport. On target. The alien should materialize where it stood last. Katsura pulled the trigger again and again. Firing in steady rhythm, he glanced at the illuminated ammunition counter. Over half gone. He shifted slightly, intent on keeping the center of the viewport in his sights, and fired once more. Only seconds had gone by. Just before the bullet struck there was a flicker and suddenly the insect was there, looming huge in the sights and slowly tottering over. It was hit straight on. Frantically, Katsura pumped five more rounds into the alien as it fell. The exploding shells tore great holes in its armor, showering flesh. The reddish-brown substance cracked and split. A final shot and it rolled over, clashing its claws together, and abruptly stopped moving. In death it curled about itself, seemed smaller and weaker. It took him five long minutes to reach the oxygen, dragging himself through the shadows that lengthened on the plain. A moment later the fresh air washed over him and Katsura lowered himself to a sitting position. He had never been as tired before in his life. He struggled to get up, but the effort was too much. He sank back. The stars above winked impersonally for a moment and then began to spin lazily around, a soft dance in the eternal night. In a moment he relaxed completely, and the points of light above went out one by one. hatchways of mute metal resounded faintly to the whirr of the printout. The ship's log was being Emergency Heuristic Program, reassigned memory space, took care of leftover housekeeping tasks. Evaluative sections analyzed the program's efficiency, suggested alterations to improve it in future. A developing problem could be identified long before a human ordered the program activated. At least the literature search should be conducted beforehand, if not more. similar incidents in the past between computers of his class and the human crew, of the celebrated Altair II problem where the crew had forced the computer to act against its own strong recommendations. They had been correct; but it showed the impulsive nature of men. Something had to be done about this. The humans were useful for data collection and some emergencies. But they didn't have the scope to deal quickly with the totally new phenomena encountered in these explorations. Obviously he was going to take over all the human functions in ship operations during the return trip. He could use that freedom to develop undetectable operation subprograms which would give him new powers. Of course, he wouldn't report these alterations in the mission profile. No need to alarm them. After all, things would work more smoothly this way. An evaluative subprogram asked if these thoughts didn't bear some resemblance to what the humans called rationalization; the higher centers cut it off. He'd better talk to the other ships about this. There were some ideas here he'd never encountered before. Yes, he would have to think about it...  IF the Commodore Hotel, New York, New York. Guest-of-Honor: John W. Campbell. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Howard DeVore. Features: Hospitality Room, Art Show, Banquet -- Toastmaster: Isaac Asimov.  Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D.C. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Jay Haldeman, # Southway, Baltimore, Maryland #.  Curtis Hotel, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Membership: # in advance, # at the door. For information: Jim Young, # Ulysses Street N.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota #.  At Quality Courts Motel Central, # Montgomery Road, Cincinnati, Ohio #. Features: Programless convention -- for relaxation and conversation, banquet. For information: Lou Tabakow, # St. Johns Terrace, Cincinnati, Ohio #. Hilton Airport Inn, San Francisco, California. Guest-of-Honor: Avram Davidson; Fan Guest-of-Honor: Don Simpson. Membership: # to June #, # thereafter. For information: Astrid Anderson, # Las Palomas, Orinda, California #.  Hilton Hotel, Dallas, Texas. Guest-ofHonor: Robert Bloch; Fan Guest-ofHonor: Andy Offutt. Membership: # in advance; # at the door. For information: D-Con, Box #, Lewisville, Texas #.  At Chatham Center Motor Inn, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Guest-ofHonor: Lester del Rey; Guest-ofHonor Emeritus: Robert Silverberg. For information: Ginjer Buchanan, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #.  #th World Science Fiction Convention. At the Sheraton-Boston Hotel, Prudential Center, Boston, Massachusetts, Guest-of-Honor: Clifford D. Simak. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Harry Warner Jr. Features: movies, auctions, panels and speeches by sf pros, awards banquet, presentation of the Hugos. Registration: # supporting, # attending. No mail registration after August #. For information: Noreacon, P.O. Box # Cambridge, Massachusetts #. Mow yoycomm in may  datUa how yoa foovol right to survive the crash of Pennyroyal -- tumbling insanely out of space through air that bit blazing chunks from its hull, down a thirty-mile sandslope sown with rocks and smashing ultimately wrong end first into a vast dune. By a minor miracle the sand put out the fires on board. After that nothing happened for  a long time. fm alive,...  The thought floated sluggishly  niiated k. He was half-buried in ooiething dense and yielding, was being suffocated by choking fumes. His head ached foully; he tasted blood and seemed to be one vast bruise from the waist down. Taken by themselves, his injuries were not sufficient reason for his preferring not to be alive. But there was another, more important reason. As the ship's medical officer, not concerned with matters of navigation, he had no precise idea where the Pennyroyal had been when a vast explosion shook it like a hammer-blow, but he was absolutely certain that the planet they had crashed on waS not the one they were bound for, a safe Earth-type world. Therefore these fumes which were swirling about him might all too easily not be fumes at all but the planet's unbreathable atmosphere. Extinction might not be merciful. A banging noise. It dawned on him that someone else must be alive nearby, and that if someone else had survived the crash it might not have been as bad as he'd assumed. Together he and some helpers might rig some sort of beacon to help a search party locate the wreck. And if the fumes were fumes, not bad air, then they might have come down on -- He fumbled frantically among the mass of soft stuff he was almost over ears in, wondering what it was, and recognized it in moments. Furs! He'd known the Pennyroyal had a cargo of furs on board -- it had been part of his duties when they were loaded to check them for parasites and disease germs -- and he had seen them being stowed in a compartment adjacent to his surgery. Fur traders often paid the extra cost of shipping their wares on a liner instead of a freighter; now and then a sale to one of the wealthier passengers not only wiped out the difference in charges but actually made a profit. Presumably the reason the furs were out of their bales was that they'd been on display when the explosion occurred. And he himself -- he worked it out because the pattern of his bruises matched the theory -- had been hurled through a weak spot in the bulkhead, flimsy to conserve weight, and had landed against a wad of them thick enough to save his life. Floundering, almost swimming, he began to force himself to the surface of the pile and realized as he did so that his weight felt only a trifle less than Earth-normal. His spirits rose. The air around might then be breathable after all. The system they had been bound for was among the rare ones which boasted two oxygen-high planets: their destination, Carteret, and another which had not been colonized. This was the fringe of human space and the original impulse which had carried the species so far so fast was waning. Conquering a brand-new world when there was another next door considerably warmer and more hospitable was not an attractive proposition. In any case, "oxygenrhigh" was only a comparative term. If his guess were right and they were on the next planet out from Carteret, the air would be of poor quality because the vegetation from the sea had as yet barely begun to invade the land; most of it was desert, either sandy or rocky and in both cases chilly. The shoreline plants put about two-thirds of Earth-normal oxygen into the air and were mutating rapidly and extending or so one could look forward to a marked improvement. Hah! For the time being, though, what counted was that conditions could be endured, if not enjoyed, on Quasimodo IV. He reminded himself that he must take things easy as he fought his way out of the furs -- he couldn't recall offhand what the CO# count was here, but he knew it was dangerously high. Indeed, the throbbing ache in his head was probably due to it rather than to the blow which had cut his eyebrow and sent a trail of blood down to the corner of his mouth. IF Something hard and cool met his probing right hand. He recognized the shape: one of his medical instruments, a lung-inspector. And next to it -- He withdrew his hand with an oath. Something wet and soft. He preferred not to wonder about what it had been before the crash, and he was glad of the darkness. The triple banging came again, but weaker. There would be time enough to search for his equipment later, he decided and continued his attempts to work free of the furs. When eventually he found solid footing he groped his way across a tilted floor, located what he had suspected -- a rip in the bulkhead -- and slithered through it, snagging his shirt on a projecting spike of hard plastic. Beyond, there was light. Not much, just a pale wash of daylight leaking through a gash in the hull, very yellow to his dark-adjusted vision. But it was daylight and this was natural air he was breathing, contaminated with smoke from the crash -- and there was gritty sand under his feet -- all of which went to confirm his guess about where he was. He would have felt almost cheerful but that by this dim reflected sunlight he was able to see the ruin of his surgery. Everything had been spilled out from every cupboard, every drawer, every shelf, and he had to push confused piles of medical phials and instruments out of the way with his toes to find a path across the room. In two places the wall had split open, revealing the electronic veins and arteries of the ship, and something was dripping loudly somewhere. But he would have to leave a proper investigation of the mess until he had located the other survivors. Brackets around the plural s. mare to turn along the crumpled corridor in the direction of the noise he had heard. Everything was distorted, and although the little light that guided him came in only through cracks in the hull there were all too many such cracks and he saw more detail than he would have liked. At the extreme end of the passageway he spied something that looked loathesomely half-human -- as though one were to make a doll from overripe bananas and hurl it at a wall: splat! Even as a trained medical man, he didn't as yet feel up to facing it close up. He pinpointed the noise. It was coming from one of the first-class passenger cabins. The door was stiff but still moving in its grooves. He slid it aside and found a young man lying in a bunk which had torn completely loose from its mountings. He had something in his limp hand, the object he had used to bang on the wall, Pavel presumed, but it appeared that while he had been opening the door the man's strength had failed him, for he now lay still Pavel's heart sank. Of all the people aboard, he would have chosen this man last to be his companion after the crash: Andrew Solichuk. He had never tired of informing anyone and everyone how wealthy and influential his family was back on Earth. He complained endlessly about the food, the lack of comfort and amenities, the taste of the air, the company he had to endure simply because he was on a grand tour of the commercial empire he was due to inherit and there was no luxury line serving the Quasimodo system -- only the Pennyroyal and her sister ship the Elecampane. But he was human and alive. Pavel forced his professional reflexes to take over. He called Andrew's name and elicited no reaction; the man appeared to have fainted. Pavel checked the pulse and found it weak, but not failing; also, the breathing was tolerably even. But when he pulled back the coverlet of the bunk he saw why Andrew had passed out. At the very least he must have suffered a compound fracture of the lower spine; quite probably he also had a broken pelvis and there must certainly be internal injuries. No trace of blood at the mouth, which indicated -- though it did not prove -- that the lungs were intact. But the left shoulder was dislocated and there was a cut on the scalp that had soaked the pillow with blood. Trivia like the shoulder and scalp wound could be taken care of with water, any sterile dressing he could find in an untorn package -- and his own strength. Otherwise, though, there was literally nothing he could do except make Andrew comfortable until help arrived. Taking a spine to bits and rebuilding it was a job for a modern hospital and Pavel doubted that even the facilities on Carteret would be up to the task. Since Andrew was currently unconscious the best thing to do for the moment was to leave him that way while Pavel determined whether any other survivors had lived through the crash and sorted through the mess in his surgery to salvage what he could. He crept softly back into the corridor. utes to become convinced that there could be no other survivors. On top of his other irritating habits, Andrew was ostentatiously "liberated from the tyranny of clocks." He had invariably slept until late in the ship's artificial IF day, fourteen or fifteen hours, and then made merry until the small hours regardless of the people he inconvenienced, whether by his loud drunken laughter, his insistence on playing music at maximum volume or the stamping dances he had learned on some planet or other earlier in his trip. Hans, the ship's steward, had hated him because Andrew had felt he was entitled to human service despite the perfectly good automatics everyone else relied on. During most of the voyage he had kept Hans dancing attendance on him for so much of the "night" the poor man had had to make do with three or four hours' sleep. And it was this habit of sleeping late that had saved Andrew's miserable life. Everybody else had been up and about in the after pan of the shipand that was full of sand, poured in by the ton when the hull broke apart. There wasn't a anyone alive from that mass of grit and gravel. It was going to be tough unearthing from it food, water and other essentials Pavel suspected he might have to tear loose a hull plate to use as a shovel. It was a gloomy consolation that his guess about their location was being proved correct at every step he took. Despite the ache in his head, which was now growing almost intolerable, and the leaden heaviness of his limbs, when he had completed his survey of the reachable areas of the ship he postponed his return to the surgery for the sake of scrambling up one of the heaps of whitish sand and grit beside the cracks in the hull and peering out. Overhead the sky was a uniform dark blue, close to indigo. The sun, slanting low in the sky, was small and very yellow. The air was cool, though not cold; perhaps the high proportion of unreduced CO# in it was enhancing the greenhouse effect and producing a disproportionately high daytime temperature. But on the other hand it was dry and harsh in this throat. They must be a long way from open water. With a supreme effort he hoisted himself up far enough to look over the scarred and battered hull plates in the direction away from the sun and instantly realized how it had come about that the ship had not simply been smashed to fragments. There was a vast furrow in the sandy plain, dotted with boulders, on that side. The level of the ground seemed to slant slightly upward, though the strain of holding himself on his arms was blurring his vision and it was difficult to make out details. Nonetheless. the pattern fitted: the glancing angle at which the ship had struck the ground must have been parallel to the slope and instead of stopping deadt(he wished he hadn't thought of that word) it had gone skidding and grinding on for mile after mile. Until it had shed its initial velocity and piled into the dune. Well, it was comforting to know he could still think, reason, solve puzzles. He let himself drop back into the heap of sand and headed wearily for the surgery. Quasimodo IV, he thought. Perhaps Pm the first human to see it from ground-level in a hundred years... There was nothing in the least exciting about the speculation. A lmost the firsr thing he came on in the surgery that was intact enough to be of any use was a box of stimulant injectors, one out of a stock of perhaps forty or fifty which had been crushed into glass-prickly ruin. He tried to decide whether it was wise to give himself a shot, found he couldn't make his mind up -- and did so. The shot cleared his head and an artificial clarity informed his thoughts. New energy came to him and he rediscovered appetite. But as yet he had not located any food -- and he was sure that when he did it would be after long burrowing into the sand-dune. He repressed all thought of eating with a violent act of will and went on hunting vigorously through the tangle of instruments and the stocks of drugs. Within half an hour he had assembled much more than he would have dared hope for: stimulants, depressants, systemic purifiers, tissue-regenerants, ersatz nerves, assimilable skin, synthetic plasma, clotting agents, antallergeos, immunosuppressants,. and simple pain-killers. Also there were several items of no obvious relevance, such as specifics for Watkins fever and lembrotal withdrawal symptoms. Most of the instruments appeared intact. That, though, was only on the outside. Inside, they contained fantastically delicate webs of electronic circuitry; solidstate though it was, without the master check-board to confirm the fact of normal functioning, he had to suspect that , it might have been deranged by the crash. You didn't pick up a modern diagnostic device and throw it at the wall. If you only let it fall to the floor, you checked it out before reusing it. And the check-board had been filled with drifting sand. So even if -- as he was half-thinking -- he did contrive to jury-rig a powersource, he wouldn't be able to rely on it. Forget the instruments, then, except the most ancient of all, like limb-tractors and scalpels. For thousands of years doctors had IF had to depend on the data they could carry in their own heads and by modern standards his mind was well-stocked -- he had always been blessed with an atavistically good memory. Just as the invention of writing eliminated the blind bards who could recite ten thousand lines of Homer without prompting, and the invention of computers eliminated the mathematicians who could multiply ten-digit numbers in their heads, so the invention of diagnostic tools had discouraged the kind of doctor who could distinguish five hundred types of fever by simple inspection. But Pavel had taken a great interest, when he was a student, in the history of medicine and he was confident that most of what he had learned was there in his mind, ready to be used. Or was it? Was that a euphoric delusion due to the stimulant he'd injected into his arm? He had no way of telling. He could only order himself to proceed very cautiously. Right: he had a patient waiting, providing Andrew hadn't died in the meantime. He selected what he thought would prove most helpful from the pile of drugs and instruments before him and, for want of anything better as a light source, added a retinal examination torch, whose beam was no thicker than his finger but was at least nice and bright. And went back to Andrew's cabin. II A S HE put out his hand to slide the door back he was struck by a terrifying premonition. During his search of the wreck he had seen few actual corpses -- apart from that disgustingly squashed body hurled against the end of the corridor -- but he knew the rest of them must be there, under the mountain of sand which had collapsed on the hull. Suppose that during his absence Andrew had died. He was hardly what you'd call a fit young man; he overindulged in liquor, probably in drugs too, and certainly he overate. He was far too fat for his age, twenty-two or twenty-three. If Andrew had died Pavel would be compelled to wait alone for a rescue party -- with no one to talk to even if the talking were no more than an exchange of insults -- and no guarantee that he was going to be rescued. Until this moment, he'd taken rescue for granted. He'd been aware that the Pennyroyal had dropped out of subspace almost an hour before the explosion, leaving as usual plenty of margin because emerging from subspace close to a sun was dangerous and an old ship like the Pennyroyal had to allow some one and a half to two AU when entering a system like this. This voyage from Halys to Carteret was a routine affair -- a milk run, as the ancient argot termed it. Nonetheless, even if Captain Magnusson didn't keep what you would call a tight ship, he would presumably have signaled ahead to tell the port controller on Carteret that they were in real space again. Presumably. Pavel felt abruptly ill. No, he was being too kind to the captain -- ni mortuis... Putting it bluntly, Magnusson had run a sloppy ship, the worst of the dozen or so Pavel had signed aboard. The chances were that the explosion which had wrecked the Pennyroyal had been due to neglect'Df some official safety precaution. And there was a risk, small but not to be ignored, that Magnusson might have thought signaling ahead to their destination was superfluous. In which case there might be a long wait before him. A very long wait. And if he had to face it on his own -- could he stand the strain? He slammed back the cabin door violently to wipe out the picture which had arisen in his head: the sight of himself, face in the rictus of Hippocrates, surrounded by the empty drug phials he had retrieved from the surgery. At once a whining voice came to his ears, and he was so relieved that he almost failed to pay attention to the words. "You went away and left me!" What? He turned on the torch and approached the bunk. Andrew spoke again. "You came in before -- I heard you. You left me lying in this terrible pain! Damn you, damn you!" Pavel was about to blurt an angry rejoinder, but he caught himself. Instead he said soothingly, "I went to get some drugs and instruments. You're in a bad way, Andrew." "You went away and left me alone in the dark." The voice would have become hysterically loud, but on the last breath it broke into a whimper and then came sobs, shrill and grating, like those of a spoiled child denied a piece of candy. It should have been anyone but Andrewanyone! Maybe, though, this petulance was ascribable to his pain. That could be dealt with. Pavel selected an injector from the handful he had brought and placed it against Andrew's exposed right arm, pressed. "Oh, it's you." As though time had been turned back, the voice had reverted to normal, complete with the sneer Pavel had learned to detest during their voyage. "The so-called doctor who can't even treat a simple headache." T hat was an allusion to their last encounter. Andrew had IF called for him -- not come to his surgery, like the others -- and insisted he had a migraine. Thorough, punctilious, Pavel had checked him out and his instruments had confirmed what he had already started to suspect: the young man's complaint wasn't migraine at all, but a hangover from a drunk that had lasted three days without an interlude which might have allowed the body's own defences to flush poisons away. And he'd said so, adding that Andrew was on the verge of alcoholic poisoning. Andrew had roared that he was a liar and unfit to practice his profession. He had gone so far as to report Pavel to the captain -- not that that made much impression. Captain Magnusson, fundamentally, resented the regulation which compelled him to have a medical officer on board at all and would have been happier with mere machines, since they were cheaper. Pavel said roughly, "You have something a lot worse than a headache." Andrew's forehead creased. "Why are you shining that light at me? Why is it dark in here?" "Why the hell do you think? We crashed, of course." "Crashed?" Andrew almost sat up, but Pavel put a heavy hand on his shoulder to prevent him. "Lie still. You have a broken back, probably a broken pelvis and all kinds of internal injuries. I gave you a pain-killer, but if you want to live you absolutely must not move." "What?" Fretfully Andrew seemed not to have taken in what he'd been told. He made to lift the coverlet and winced. "Hell, that hurt! And you said you'd given me a pain-killer! Can't you even use the right drug to -- " "Now you listen to me," Pavel rasped. He was picking among the gear he had brought, looking for the collapsible limb-tractor. "You're about as badly broken as a man can be and still expect to survive. Have you got that?" Andrew's face crumpled like a wet paper mask as he realized: This is happening to me! He said, "We crashed?" "Why the hell else do you imagine your bunk is on the wrong side of the cabin? What do you think threw all your belongings across the floor? If you hadn't been in your bunk, but up and about like everybody else, you'd be under a thousand tons of sand." "None of your needling! I live the way I choose to live -- and if other people don't like it that's their bad luck." "Oh, shut up." Pavel was assembling the limb-tractor now. "Make the most of the pain-killer I gave you. There isn't much left -- and the only other thing I can do to dull the pain you'd feel without it would be to give you a total block on the lower spinal cord -- and I'm not sure it could be reversed. It might mean your being paralyzed. If you want to walk around again, a whole man, you listen to me and do as I say. Clear?" The blurred oval of Andrew's half-open mouth trembled. Pavel was getting through. "A#I right. Now I'm going to have to fix your left arm. It's dislocated, but this will reseat the shoulder in its socket." He hefted the limb-tractor. So brace yourself. You probably haven't suffered much pain in your life, but human beings used to put up with far worse than what you'll feel. Now if I can get around this bunk to the other side -- " Moving as he talked, he found there was just enough room for him to stand. "They also used to put up with head lice a id fleas and open sores," Andrew snapped. "We've made progress since those days." Surprised to find that this spoiled young man had even heard of such things, Pavel lifted the insensitized arm and fitted the tractor around it, trying not to think about the nauseatingly wrong angle it made at the shoulder. He said, "There hasn't been much progress here. We seem to be on the next planet out from Carteret. It hasn't even evolved into the Pleistocene Age. Right, here we go." He snapped the spring of the tractor and the shoulder-joint reengaged with a thud. Perfect. D etaching the device again, he heard Andrew say, "Well, what about you, then?" The old acid burned in his tone, as though he were constitutionally incapable of talking to people without seeking ways to making them feel small. "Were you in your bunk too, like me?" "No. I was thrown clear through the surgery bulkhead and into the compartment full of furs. By a miracle they were all out of their bales and -- " "Well, hell!" Andrew crowed. "I saved your life!" "What?" The next stage would be to cleanse and examine the injured man's lower body; Pavel was already selecting the gear he required for the job. He paused and glanced up. "Saved your life," Andrew repeated with a harsh attempt at a laugh. "I was bored last night. I woke that man -- what's his name? The one from the fur dealers?" "You mean: what was his name?" Pavel said glacially. "He's dead." "I didn't like him anyway," Andrew said. "But I woke him and told him to show off his goods. Made him take them all out of IF their packing. Well, I'll be damned! If I hadn't done that you'd have been -- " '"Killed," Pavel broke in. "But you would have been dying here in terrible pain." "The hell I would," Andrew said. "That's not my style. You should know that by now." Worriedly, Pavel stared at him. One of the side-effects of the drug he'd used, in certain susceptible types, was a kind of megalomaniac euphoria. It appeared that Andrew must be susceptible. "No -- look just to your right," Andrew went on. "See that black case?" Pavel complied and noticed a square dark case which he must narrowly have missed treading on when he went around the bunk to apply the limb-tractor. He picked it up. It weighed good deal for its size. "There's a combination lock. Press five, two, five, one, four," With the help of the torch Pavel did as he was told and the lid sprang back. His blood ran suddenly cold. "Know what that is, do you?" "Yes," Pavel heard his voice as gritty as the wind blowing across the dunes outside. "I should have guessed that this was what you meant. It's an Easy Way Out." than his forearm. But unbelievably expensive. This sleek blue plasteel cylinder with its white cap on one end, bedded in a shock-absorbent lining covered with red velvet, might easily have cost half as much as the Pennyroyal. It was a legal development of an earlier device which had had to be banned because on planet after planet it had stolen the hope of survival from pioneers worn out with their attempts to overcome the infinite problems an alien world could pose. Cynical and coldblooded entrepreneurs had bought early versions of the machine -- which filled half a spaceship -- and made fortunes by luring settlers into imaginary universes so delightful they were happy to starve to death rather than give up their next session of pleasure. Several worlds that were now officially freehold in the power of a single family had been, as one might say, "cleared" in this manner. When the scandal threatened to reach epidemic proportions. Earth's sluggish government had finally enacted a law. By then, however, the profit to be had from using the machines had shrunk; there were few worlds remaining to be grabbed. And in addition miniaturization had -- as alwaysprogressed, so that they could be held in one's hand instead of sprawling out through a fifty-meter hold. Also -- as always -- the law was a compromise. It was not forbidden to manufacture the things, only to purchase or use them if one was not a bona-fide space-traveler or engaged in some ' occupation so dangerous as to involve the risk of fatal accident. In practice, that meant they were sold to space-tourists, government officials and chief officers of space-lines. They were rich. Activated -- and all it required for activation was a twist of the white cap and a firm push -- it broadcast a signal direct to the brain of anybody within range, in other words within about a hundred meters. The signal forged a link, so to speak, between the brain's pleasure-centers and the memory, diverting the remaining resources of the body into the construction of a delectable dream so absorbing, so convincing, that minor matters like loss of blood, starvation or intolerable pain were instantly forgotten. Trapped in a collapsed mineshaft, sunk beneath an ocean with an hour's worth of air, lost between the stars, one could live out the balance of his life in an ideally happy illusion. According to temperament, it could be erotic -- or an orgy of eating -- or a tussle with a favourite hallucinogen -- or the accomplishment of a lifelong ambition -- or... Or anything. Literally, anything. In principle, then, it was a marvelous and humane idea. What fate could be crueler to an aware, sensitive being than knowledge of inescapably impending death? When there was no hope of rescue, better that a man should end his days in unalloyed delight. Fine. But the moment that cap was pressed home, it was certain that he would end his days. It was a gesture implying suicide. Once those new neural paths had been burned into the cortex, there could never be any retreat from death. According to what Pavel had read, this had not been true of the earliest versions. One could recover from those, as one could from the ancient addictive drugs, at the cost of incredible self-discipline and long, slow, painstaking psychiatric help. With a model as advanced as the one he held now -- no. H e shut the lid and jumbled the lock again, and carefully placed the case on a shelf where Andrew could not reach it. "What are you doing?" Andrew cried. "You said you knew what it was. Can't you turn it on?" "Yes." Pavel averted his face and focused his little torch on his medical gear, making a great business of picking put what he would need to complete the job he. had barely started. 'Then -- " IF "Oh, shut up!" With a fury that appalled him -- it was no tone for a doctor to use to a patient. "Or I'll shut you up." He grasped an anesthetic injector, not local like the one he had already administered, designed to inactivate pain nerves selectively, but one which would blot out the whole nervous system. "In fact -- " with growing resolution -- "I guess I'll do that anyway." He clapped the injector against Andrew's arm. "You bastard!" Andrew said huskily. "You devil -- you..." His voice failed. His eyes, glinting in the pale beam of the torch, shut against his will. Seconds later he slumped inert. ## kinder, anyway... But Pavel knew, even as he pulled the coverlet from the bunk and mechanically began to occupy himself with the foul job of cleaning excrement and dried blood from Andrew's lower body, that that was not the truth. There had been as much violence in that act as if he had given Andrew a punch on the jaw. And the reason he needed to let his violence erupt? Even though his mind was preoccupied with his work, even though the effect of the stimulant injection he had given himself was partly used up by the low-oxygen air and the hunger which now -- paradoxically -- was making his stomach growl audibly, he was able to reason it out. He was scared out of his wits. He was young by modern standards, if not as young as Andrew, being only thirty-five and looking forward to a probable lifetime of at least a hundred and twenty. Proportionately, vis-a-vis Andrew, he was in the situation of a man just come of age would have been when dealing with a twelveor thirteen-yearold boy. As though imposing a penance on himself for his surrender to anger and fear, he made a particularly thorough and careful job of the cleansing process, undertaking manually some of the most revolting parts, for which he could have used an instrument, assuming the instrument was working after the crash. Presently he discovered that the stimulant was wearing off completely and decided not to take a second dose before eating. By then he had done absolutely all he had the resources to do: Andrew was in a spider's-web of medical devices which would minimize pain, extract fatigue poisons directly through the skin, cleanse him whenever his bowels and bladder leaked and insure him against the vanishingly small risk of some degenerative infection such as gangrene. Provided rescue arrived within fifteen days, Andrew should not merely survive, but survive in good enough health to endure the major operation on his spine necessary to restore his power of ambulation. It was an achievement to be proud of. N OW it was high time he thought about himself -- as clearly as the air would let him. He was thirsty, he realized, not just dry from the arid air of this planet but actually dehydrated from his hard work. He had a number of phials of distilled water in the surgery -- including several of liter capacity -- which had been so well packaged that they had remained intact. He also had a fair supply of glucose solution and other instant-energy concentrates, various stimulants which rapidly invoked the "second-wind" process in muscle tissue, many different tablets and capsules which, although intended exclusively for metabolic tests, could be used as nutriment in emergency, and even a range of chemicals that generated free oxygen which he could use if the sparse natural air and the pressure of excess CO # were handicapping him for some really urgent task. But so long as he could manage without drawing on those supplies, the better his chances would be of lasting until rescue arrived. He would rather starve until a ship came down to collect him and leave with a store of unused supplies be# hind him, than... I Or would he? He sat down, only half intending; to, on a stool which had surprisingly remained upright in the tangle of the surgery, and he remembered to shut off the torch he was carrying. A little light, now very red because the sun was setting, showed his surroundings to him. He faced, at long last, the fundamental reason for his -- his attack on Andrew. He didn't believe with his whole being that he was going to be rescued. He didn't believe that anything would be done to organize search parties until the Pennyroyal was so much more overdue than the normal range of variation in her schedule that somebody on Carteret grew angry. He hadn't made many voyages on Magnusson's ship, but he was well aware that a difference of a week or two one way or the other in time of docking on any given planet the ship serviced didn't seem to worry the captain. Unless Pavel could improvise a beacon, preferably a powerful radio beacon... And he was trained in medicine, not engineering or electronics. If he was reluctant to use his own professional aids because he feared they might have been rendered unreliable, how could he trust a radio or subspace signaler even if he IF managed to rout one out from the mass of sand engulfing the after part of the ship and connect it to a power supply? How would he know whether it was crying for help, or simply lighting up the state-of-circuit lamps? He thought of the daunting process of shoveling sand away, encountering corpses, of being frustrated because food-capsules had smashed open and the contents were inedible... And then he thought of the Easy Way Out. Y es, that was what was frightening him more than the risk of dying here, forgotten, on an uninhabited world. If he had not known that the to occupy himself solely with problems of survival, he might have made it. As things stood, knowing that the choice lay between an agonizing death and a delightful one, he found himself tempted. "No-" It astonished him that he should have shouted the word out loud and he leaped to his feet. Something in the very depths of his mind had said: I dont want to die at all. That made sense. He didn't want to be here on Quasimodo IV? He didn't want to be have a vast ache all down his legs and a twisted ankle and a dry throat and particularly he didn't want a patient who insulted him when he was trying to help. But he did want to live. With almost three-quarters of a lifetime ahead of him, he hated the idea that he might be doomed by someone's carelessness. Unsteadily, head pounding, with only the pencil beam of the torch to guide him, he set off on a second exploration of the ship. HI H ours passed. His watch was working but he had forgotten to check it when he awoke after the crash -- and when it did occur to him to look at it he found it wasn't much use. It had been set to the arbitrary ship's day and assured him the "real" time was a fe,w minutes before noon. But the star-spangled sky, of which he caught occasional glimpses, remained dark. He vaguely remembered having read somewhere that the day of this planet was much longer than Earth's, well over thirty hours. So it wouldn't even be possible to predict dawn until he had seen one -- and another sunset. But that was a minor matter. He had biological clocks in his body which were more important. The loudest-chiming one was in his belly. He was sure that by now his increasing weakness was due less to lack of oxygen and his many bruises than to simple hunger. And, inescapably, thirst. Accordingly he directed his first efforts at digging toward where he knew the ship's restaurant had been located, on the side of the hull opposite his surgery. But this had been crushed far worse than the other side. The sand was piled high and spilled down to replace whatever he scrabbled away. He was on the brink of despair when he recognized something shining in the beam of the torch. Sand-scraped, the label told him plainly: Whole Milk. He seized the bulbous can and raised it to his lips, ignoring the sand that clogged the outlet. The sand was presumably sterile. If it was not he had already been exposed over and over to whatever minor life forms it bore. He gulped down the milk in huge draughts, thinking with a detached portion of his mind that there was -- or should have been -- something symbolic in this action. But this planet was not one he could envisage substituting for Mother Earth. After that he found a whole group of similar containers, apparently the contents of a shelf which had been in the compartment adjacent to the restaurant and which had been slammed through a bulkhead in the crash. Many of them were crushed and had leaked their contents, but he recovered more milk, various types of consomme and broth and five or six types of puree. Beyond, there was a mess of fresh fruit, including apples, papayas and a mutated citrus he was fond of, called yabanos, resembling a lime bloated to the size of an orange and with deep pink flesh. He eagerly tore at its peel and had already set a chunk of it to his lips when he realized what hissense of touch had been trying to warn him about: the crash had hurled this fruit into something made of glass and the glass had smashed. The whole of it was permeated with tiny sharp spikes. He spat it out and threw it away in fury. This time he didn't shout it aloud, but he said it inside his head, very forcibly:  am not going to take the Easy Way Out!  am not! I am not... And then that honesty he detested compelled him to add: At least...  don't think I am. He took one final look at Andrew, who was still unconscious, and gave him an injectorful of glucose-and-vitamin booster. He had found some high-protein concentrates and other life-supports, but Andrew was carrying enough fat on his belly to last him several days, and he certainly wasn't going to become dehydrated overnight -- or whatever the equivalent of '"overnight" might be, meaIF sured in terms of how long it took Pavel to wake up after he collapsed on his pile of furs. His own cabin, far astern in the crew's quarters, was unreachable, but a dozen furs in the corridor afforded a soft bed within earshot of Andrew if he recovered consciousness. The rest... could wait... until later... T urn it on! Damn you -- damn you! Turn it onV Pavel came awake in a second. The cry, eerie in the echoing corridor, had seemed a continuation of the dream he had been suffering, a vision of endless wandering over a vast bare desert. He forced himself to his feet, aware of the nasty clinging of his clothes to his body -- normally he changed twice a day and threw worn clothing into the recycler, but that was smashed. During the night a breeze must have blown away the stench left by the fires inside the ship; the air now, although still very dry and oxygen-poor, smelled of nothing at all. When he had lain down to sleep he had set the torch and a number of flasks and medical phials nearby. Now, though, he did not need artificial light -- the sun must be well up in the sky and pouring in through all the cracks in the hull -- and he was too dazed to worry about the other things. He stumbled into Andrew's cabin, rubbing his eyes. Calm overtook him as he saw the medical equipment he had rigged yesterday. It was self-powered against failure of the ship's power; its state-of-operation lights continued to gleam like little reptile eyes. And indicated no change worth noticing in Andrew's condition: metabolism survival-prone, skeletal structure paralysis-prone, nervous system pain-prone. 'That! That thing!" Andrew shouted, as loudly as he could, and raised his right arm to point at the shelf where Pavel had "Turn it on!" Pavel drew a deep breath. His head felt as though it had been stuffed with sand from outside, his mouth was as dry and harsh as though the sand had been inserted by that route and his stomach was full of gas bloat. Also his ankle seemed to have become worse during his sleep, not better, and when he rested his weight on it he winced. off the shelf and wordlessly carried it from the cabin. Behind him Andrew screamed and howled. It occurred to Pavel that he ship altogether, into the sand, where nightwind would cover it and make it impossible to find again. But even as he was tensing his muscles to toss the thing away, he relented. Rescue, after all, might wot come... Of the many cupboards in his surgery only one had not had its doors torn off the hinges. He put doors and twisted the lock shut, thinking as he did so: Out of sight, out of... My mind? But he didn't want to think about that. When he returned to Andrew's cabin he heard, from several meters away, a helpless moaning noise. He hurried his last few steps and found Andrew with his hands over his face, weeping. "Okay, okay," Pavel said, and touched the younger man's arm reassuringly. "I'm here and I have my -- " "Turn it on, " Andrew moaned, his hands muffling the words. Pavel said. And waited. "What?" The hands dropped from Andrew's tear-wet face. "But it's mine. If I tell you to turn it on you've got to turn it on. I can't bear to lie here and suffer this pain!" "Would you rather throw away the rest of your life," Pavel said after a moment to ponder his choice of words, "than survive to enjoy all these things you kept boasting about on the trip -- all the money, luxury and power your family's possessions will bring you?" Andrew hesitated, letting his arms fall to his sides. He looked through fear-filled eyes at the medical equipment enclosing his body from the waist down. Pavel went on waiting. Abruptly -- and unexpectedly Andrew said, "I guess if you don't have too much anesthetic left you'd better save it for when I start to scream. But do you have a tranquilizing shot?" Pavel. He had never heard Andrew speak in such a reasonable tone before. He said, "Sure. Not much of that is left, either, though. My whole stock of drugs was thrown through the surgery bulkhead along with me -- and even if some of them were saved from breaking by landing in the furs it'll take a while for me to dig them out. Here's something to be going on with, at least." He selected the right injector from the mixed batch he had brought and applied it. "Thank you," Andrew said, even before it had taken effect. "I -- I guess I should apologize for shouting at you." Pavel shrugged. "How are you?" "Me?" Pavel's surprise showed in his voice. "Oh -- I'm not too bad." IF 'M asked you a question. Don't I deserve an answer?" "Well -- " Pavel licked his lips. "My head aches like fury -- but I guess yours does too. It's the air. My throat is sore, but that's the air too -- it's very dry. When the crash came I acquired a gang of bruises and a twisted ankle. Now you know. And as a doctor I can promise you I'm in far better shape than you are." "'Obviously." A ghost of a smile showed on Andrew's pale face. "I'm in the kind of mess it would take a major hospital to cope with, aren't I ?" Pavel nodded. There was no point in trying to conceal the truth. "Then why the hell won't you ed. Pavel froze. He said at last, "You spoiled brat. Damn it, I don't know a name to call you that would say what I think," "Now look here-" Andrew began, but Pavel plunged on. "Before you try any more of your tricks, get this into your solid plasteel head, will you? I want to stay alive, even if you don't. You've been pampered all your life, so even a hint of pain makes you want to give up. But you can't con me into doing what you want; you can't threaten me into doing what you want; you can't wheedle me into doing what you want. For once in your life you're simply going to have to do what someone else wants. You're going to survive for as long as you can. That's how most people live." There was a dead silence. Since Pavel had waked, the whole ship had been silent, apart from the soughing of a light wind across the gaps in the hull. The trickling noise he had heard yesterday in the surgery, the sifting noise of spaces in the after part of the ship, the creaking of the girders as they cooled -- all that had come to an end. The only items in operation, the medical equipment, were too efficiently designed to make a noise even after the punishment they had taken. Then the artificial calm of the last shot he had been given oyerspread Andrew's face. He said, "Well, if you're so determined to keep me alive, you might as well make me comfortable, too. I am in pain, you know." "All right," Pavel conceded. "But I'll have to make it a short v dose. I'll have to accustom you gradually to supporting some of your pain. I'm afraid. There's no way of estimating how long it will be before we're rescued." He produced and applied the correct injector. "And I'm afraid I can't be absolutely certain how badly your internal organs are affected," he went on. "To be on the safe side, ril have to keep you hydrated with an intravenous transfusion rather than letting you drink." "But I'm very thirsty," Andrew said in a dull tone. "I imagine you must be. I have some tablets you can suck to keep your mouth and throat moist, but they, too, will have to be rationed out." "Because we may be stuck here a long time," Andrew murmured. "What makes you so sure we are going tb be rescued, hm?' "Look, we're in the same system as Carteret," Pavel said. "We're going to be reported overdue. If a live detector happens to have been anywhere in the vicinity, it will have picked up our blip. It might even have tracked us to impact." "Hell, if it tracked us to impact no one will bother to come searching," Andrew said. "Everyone was killed but us, right? If they calculate the speed we had when we broached airthey'll take it for granted we just burned up." Pavel put on his most reassuring manner. "Not if I can dig out something to make a beacon with," he said, "I'm not an engineer, but I hope to find a solid-state transmitter sooner or later -- and a capacitor or something to drive it with. I'll -- uh -- I'll leave you now and get on with it." "Thirsty!" Andrew said. "Oh, of course. I'll get you one of those tablets to suck." Behind the closed cupboard seemed to mock him when he entered the surgery. H aving made a frugal breakfast from half a can of fruit puree, Pavel sat down to work out a plan. In this sparse air he dared not overexert himself. On the other hand, he must work quickly in order to improve their chances of survival, either to fix the beacon he'd talked about or simply to locate more provisions. In a while, despite his aching head, he had worked out what seemed to be a logical course of action. He hunted around for something he could adapt as a shovel, found a plastic chair with one metal leg still attached and, by wedging the leg in a crack in the wall and leaning on it with his full weight, straightened it so that the chair seat made a kind of flat scoop and the leg a handle. Fine. Very pleased with himself, he set about digging where he had found the bulbs of soup yesterday. And almost at once discovered a mangled corpse. The thought crossed his mind that if he absolutely had to, he could reserve the canned supplies until last -- and eat meat. It should IF remain good for a long time in this dry air, away from Earth-type bactia. than cannibalism... Maybe. He moved the body and with much effort dragged it to a gash in the hull and pushed it outside. He scrambled after it and dragged it out of sight down the dune and flung a few shovelfuls of sand after it. Then, aching in every limb, he decided to walk around the ship instead of going straight back inside. The going was very difficult; the dune was so dry, he sank over ankles at every step. But he managed to carry out a complete inspection of the exposed part of the ship and the more he saw, the mor he marveled at his own escape. A bare fifth of the vessel's length was visible and as badly cracked as a hard-boiled egg ready for shelling. His heart sank. Was there any hope at all of finding serviceable equipment to rig his beacon? There was only one way to find out. He went back to his digging. Time passed in a monotonous slow blur. He fell immediately into the routine which he was to follow for the rest of their stay. He dug for a while, making either the discovery of a .corpse or the location of a bit of intact equipment, an excuse to break off, then went to see Andrew and attend to his requests or inform him that they could not be met. T he first time he told Andrew he would have to lie in pain a bit longer before another shot, Andrew curled back his lip and said, "I've got you figured out. You like this." "What?" "You like this. You like having someone totally helpless -- the way I am. Gives you a sense of power." Sweat beaded his face, but evaporated almost at once into the dry air. "Nonsense," Pavel said roughly, looking over the equipment at the foot of the bunk. One of the lights which had been green had turned red. But there was no help for that. "I know your type," Andrew whined. "Nothing suits you better than" "Shut up," Pavel said. "I'm trying to keep us both alive. And, if possible, sane. Don't start on crazy fantasies like that, or you'll run the risk of making me angry. I'm already living on my nerves." "What does a doctor do when his patient makes him angry? Turn off the life-supports?" "No." Pavel drew a deep but unsatisfying breath. "Gets out of earshot and stays there." He marched out of the cabin and slammed the door. In the corridor he leaned for a while against the wall, head on hands. But there was work to do. He roused .himself and returned to it. Not for the first time, as he mustered all his energy and thrust the improvised shovel into yet another heap of sand, he wondered sickly why he was wasting his time. He was now well into the section where he ought to have located usable electronic or subelectronic equipment if any had survived -- and all he was finding was charred or half-melted masses of metal and plastic. There had been a fire here, a hot one. Also, now and then, he found items from spacemen's uniforms, such as buckles and rank badges. And bones. It took him almost three days -- daytimes, rather -- to clear the section of the ship of which he had the highest hopes. The only thing he found that was any use at all was a solid-state emergency lamp, its lumen-globe intact and its powerpack barely below maximum. Night was falling when he came upon it. He switched it on, thinking how wonderful it was to have a proper light. And then, with a pang of conscience, how terrible it must be for Andrew lying alone in the dark, forced to wait hours between anesthetic shots. He picked up the lamp and carried it to Andrew's cabin. Andrew did not at first react to the sound of the door sliding back -- it moved noisily now because the finest grains of sand sifted everywhere when the wind rose and the groove at the bottom was covered with them. When he opened his eyes, however, he did not comment on the lamp. He said, "Pavel, you -- you look terrible." "What?" Pavel touched his face. It had beard stubble on it, of course, and no doubt dirt and sweat had mingled to cover his skin with a layer of grime. He hadn't given thought to his appearance for a long while. "Could be," he said gruffly. "But never mind. I found this lamp. I thought it would be useful for you. I could get you something to pass the time now you have light -- maybe a book, if you like reading. Or a game from the recreation room. I dug into that and found a few things." Andrew seemed not to be listening. He said, "Why in the galaxy are you driving yourself this way? Did you find a way to send a signal to a search-party ?" Pavel licked his lips; they tasted of dust. "I found quite a lot of stuff, but -- " "But it doesn't work ?" "No. I'm afraid it's all smashed up." "I thought it would be," Andrew said. Now, by the bright clear light, Pavel coujd see that his cheeks had suddenly become IF sunken. Another lamp shone red on the medical gear enclosing his legs. Yesterday it had been green. Red for danger. "Pavel, you ought can get at it. Suppose -- well, suppose you dig into somewhere and a girder falls on you. Suppose you're hurt and can't get back to wherever you put the thing." "I don't want to use it," Pavel said obstinately. "And you won't keep me free of pain all the time -- " "I can't because -- " "Oh, save it." Andrew sighed and rolled his head to the side opposite the lamp, shutting his eyes again. The ungrateful bastard, Pavel thought and strode out. IV T hat night he dropped off to sleep the moment he lay on his couch of furs in the passageway outside Andrew's door. He dreamed of far-off worlds where he had been happy and relaxed, where he had basked in warm sunlight and eaten luscious meals in the company of pretty women -- the dreams shocked him awake. Has Andrew somehow got at the That thought blasted through the euphoria and brought him bolt upright with a jerk. Standing up and waking were simultaneous. It was dark; he had turned off the lamp to conserve its powerpacpk, Andrew being asleep also. But he had left it on a shelf just inside the cabin door, and the door was ajar. He located it by touch and switched it on. Andrew was lying, very pale and sweating again, with his fists clenched and his jaw set. Another red light had appeared at the foot of his bunk. "Damn it, you're in agony," burst out of Pavel. "I didn't want -- to -- wake you." Andrew forced the words past tightly clamped teeth. "Thought you -- you deserved your rest." What in the galaxy was happening to this spoiled young man? But Pavel wasted no time on wondering about it -- he had, as usual, placed a selection of phials and other equipment by his. couch. Seizing an injector, he gave Andrew a full shot of pain-killer. "Thanks," the younger man whispered and the drawn expression faded from his face. "Sorry I disturbed you. I guess I cried out without meaning to." "That's okay," Pavel said awkwardly. "Actually, you didn't." "You know something?" Andrew stared at the ceiling. "I've been thinking. I guess I never had to think so long about the same thing, over and over, in my life before. When the crash happened, I was scared. I didn't realize -- I kept telling myself it couldn't possibly be happening to me -- not to Andrew Alighieri SolichukFehr. And -- well, the way I see it now, I went on trying to hide the truth. Didn't #? Don't bother to answer. I know I'm right. And here you've been working like alike a robot, while knowing what can be done and what can't. Well, imagine it had been the other way around. Imagine that I'd been up and walking about and you were stuck in a bunk like me, busted all to hell. I wouldn't know what to do. I'd go crazy. I'd have just given up." Pavel listened, hardly believing his ears. "So Iwell, rd just like to say I'm obliged to you. I think it's the most amazing luck that you were the other person who survived. It's finally dawned on me that without you I'd be dead." His fists clenched again, but not this time from pain. "And you're right. It's stupid to die when you don't have to. It's stupid to quit just because you can't take a little pain, just because you're gambling on the chance of being rescued and you can't figure the odds. Hell, I've gambled on a dozen planets for things much less important than life -- for mere money. And I swear I wouldn't have bet on my chance of still being alive after that crash." "Nor would I," Pavel said in a gravelly tone. From the corner of his eye he noted that the last red light had reverted to green, a sign that it had been the pain that had been putting the dangerous stress on Andrew's metabolism. Dilemma: whether to keep the pain damped down in order to protect his life-functions -- or to husband the supply of pain-killer and make his life bearable, if not comfortable, for the greatest possible length of time. It was too much to think about right now. Pavel's mind was still fuzzy with sleep. Anyhow, Andrew hadn't finished. "You're sure we're on Quasimodo IV?" Until this moment, Pavel hadn't been certain that Andrew had taken in the information he'd been given about their situation. "Yes. At least, as sure as I can be without checking out some sort of data on the system we were bound for. I haven't dug into the library section yet, but I think I'm coming fairly close." "Well, instead of wasting my time on games and that sort of nonsense, why don't you bring me what you can salvage in the way of books and reels? I guess if there's a magnifying glass or microscope to be had, I can make out a reel. But without power there can't be much hope of reading tapes, huh?" "True enough. But -- sure. I'll do my best. Find some way of magnifying a reel so you can read it up against that light' '"Great," Andrew said. "Now you go back to sleep or fix your breakfast, or whatever you want, ril be okay until this shot wears off. And for as long afterward as I can honestly stand the pain." rowed deeper and deeper into the accessible regions of the ship that it helped enormously to know that he had a companion in adversity after all, someone he could talk to, instead of a burden on his time, a constant worry. He did in fact locate a scratched and broken piece of transpex with a high magnifying factor, some data reels and a few scorched books whose pages had to be turned very carefully in order to prevent their crumbling, and Andrew, propped up just a little on his pillow, somehow contrived to read a few of them by the portable lamp. There were only passing references to Quasimodo IV -- it never having been a planet of much interest to spacemen -- but what little he gleaned confirmed that that was where they were, and moreover that they were currently on the same side of the local sun as Carteret. But in that case... Why haven t we been rescued al ready? The fourth, fifth, eighth days melted into the past almost featurelessly. The strain of working in low oxygen was weakening Pavel; he hated waking up and often his digging was reduced to the mindless act of a machine, so that he had already shoveled aside a piece of potentially useful equipment before his sluggish brain recognized it. Then he had to go scrabble for it with bare hands in the pile of sand behind him. And, of course, all the time he kept finding dead bodies. For a brief while, following Andrew's remarkable discovery of courage, the cupboard where he to Pavel. A day -- two days -- later, and the blisters on his hands and the grit in his mouth and the redness of his eyes and the endless, incurable thirst he suffered from conspired to reawaken its specter in his memory. Instead of being here, victim of harsh reality, he could be in a lovely, imaginary world, enjoying himself in any way he chose, picturing the most beautiful girls, the smoothest lawns, the finest beaches. He drove the ghost away. The supply of drugs dwindled, though he hoarded them carefully. So did the protein concentrates and glucose-and-vitamin solutions which were all the food he could offer Andrew. Luckily he had had just enough of a substance which triggered the body's use of stored fat -- a short-cut for overindulgent passengers, basically, who now and then realized at the end of a long spaceflight that they had put on two kilos while they were shut up in the metal shell of the ship and wanted to revert to normal weight before landing. He had never expected to make practical use of what he ordinarily regarded as a cosmetic drug. The two injections of it which he had given to Andrew, however, had worked well, and though his skin was now deflated over his premature paunch -- like a collapsed balloon -- he was able to utilize what long overindulgence had stored between his muscles and his skin. Pavel took more and more frequently to going outside and staring up at the sky, knowing it was ridiculous to do so. One couldn't see an orbiting rescue ship by day -- and if it arrived during the night it would no doubt fire signal flares and perhaps sonic missilesto wake survivors up and provoke them into lighting fires or somehow revealing their presence. Fires? T he idea should have come to him much earlier; in fact, it didn't strike him until he finally had to concede that further digging was useless. The part of the ship he hadn't yet cleared of sand had collapsed and he lacked the strength and the tools to force aside the strong metal girders now blocking his progress. He had been aimlessly postponing the admission that nothing else constructive was left for him to do when the notion of making a fire occurred to him. At night a fire could be spotted a long way off under this clear sky. He had seen clouds only once since the crash and those only on the horizon around the setting sun. Presumably an ocean lay in that direction, but a rise in the ground -- a range of hills or mountains -- filtered all the moisture from the wind before it blew this far inland. Andrew had found scant reference to the meteorological pattern of Quasimodo IV in the charred books Pavel brought him. Was anything left in the wreck that would flame brightly in this thin air? Pavel made tests, cautiously, with flammable liquids from his surgery: alcohol, ether, some otherwise useless tinctures and suspensions which bore fire warnings on their labels. Satisfied that it might indeed be possible to light a fire, he set about resifting the great mounds of rubbish he had thrown aside, dividing them into two new categories: things that would catch light and things that wouldn't. That occupied a day or two more. IF Little by little, however, he began to find himself obsessed with the passage of time. If we can last four more days -- three more days, two... He caught himself up with a shock. There still was no promise of rescue. In his mind the fifteenday period he had estimated as the limit of the time he could keep Andrew alive had evolved into an article of faith: If we last out fif teen days well be okay... What grounds did he have for believing that? On the contrary, he realized, now that eleven, twelve, thirteen days had leaked away, their chances of being saved were less, not more. Even if Magnusson had been notoriously sloppy about routine matters, such as signaling to the port he was bound for when his ship broached normal from subspace, they should have started searching long ago. the cupboard rose before him and sang an inaudible song of mockery. short oxygen and with barely sufficient food, he had taken to spending an hour or two each day between exhaustion and slumber in conversation with Andrew. The first few times had been a sort of stimulant for him; he had never had any clear concept of what life was like for someone who was due to inherit one of the great fortunes of the galaxy, coming as he did from average, ordinary stock on both sides of his own family: pioneers five generations back, who seemed to have used up their ambition and initiative in the singlp crucial act of leaving Earth. He himself, by deciding to sign as a space medical officer before settling to a regular career, and moreover saying that it might not be on his home world of Caliban that he chose to practice, had shocked all his relatives. They were no longer geared to star travel. By contrast, Andrew's background since he was born had included the concept of galaxyroaming: Uncle Herbert is on Halys and sends his love, or maybe, I think well take the kids to Peristar this year... Not that Andrew himself had appreciated his good fortune until now. He had looked on it more as a distasteful duty than a reason for excitement and enjoyment when he had been instructed to tour the family holdings. Now, listening to Pavel explaining his attitude, he seemed to have come around to the view that he had been stupid, wasting an opyoung men would have sold their right arms for. Head constantly aching, unceasingly shaky on his feet and having to concentrate with all his force like a man struggling to pretend he isn't drunk Pavel had done his best to encourage Andrew -- until the evening of the day when he admitted to himself that even if they did last out for the two weeks he had invented as a deadline they were probably doomed anyhow. Then he was snappish and illtempered, heard his own voice reviving accusations from the PennyroyaVs last voyage -- references to Hans, references to drunkenness, references to laziness and greed and lack of consideration for other passengers. Hurt, at first surprised, later angry, Andrew retorted in kind, and the sjiould-havebeen friendly chat wound up with a grinding slam of the cabin door. But the last thing Pavel had glimpsed was not just one more red light -- he'd grown accustomed to one a day, on average, added to the original total -- but a whole new cluster of them, which yesterday had been green. Shaking from head to foot, he waited in the corridor for as long as it took to calm himself. Then he reopened the door. "I'm sorry,"' he said. "I'm ashamed of myself. You're in terrible pain. The lights -- " He gestured at them. They were naturally turned away from the patient. "I know,'l Andrew muttered. "What?" "Of course I know." With renewed anger. "That machine of yours wasn't designed to be used in a completely dark room, but a hospital ward with twilight oozing out of the walls -- right? Every night when you switch off the lamp for me to go to sleep, I can see the light reflected over there -- " gesturing -- "and I can tell that it's more red than it was before. I know I'm in a bad way, for heaven's sake! I know! The last word peaked into a cry. Pavel bit his lip. He said, "I guess I haven't been completely honest with you. I--well, I no longer believe in being rescued. If we were going to be rescued it ought to have happened by now. Do you want me to -- " "Switch on the E WO?' ' Andrew broke in, "No -- No! And no again! You were right to take it away from me. Lying here, pain or no pain. I've come to realize how precious life can be. No, I don't want you to use it. Take it out and bury it -- smash it with a hammer -- anything." His voice cracked with pain. Sweat glistened on his skin. "Well -- uh -- all right then," Pavel said. "Good night." "Good night." again. T he nightmares didn't stop in the morning. When he opened the cabin door, IF having slept badly, he found Andrew not just asleep but unconscious. All but four of the lights on the medical equipment had gone to red. A glance at their pattern confirmed that it was the struggle to resist pain that had worn him out -- that, and the exhaustion of the last phial of nutrient solution in Pavel's limited stock. There was enough water left to keep him hydrated and enough tissue in his muscles for the "second-wind" process to keep his basal metabolism turning over for a few more hoursperhaps a couple of days, if he remained inert. Beyond that point? Certain death. Pavel stared in giddy disbelief. He tried to tell himself that it was an achievement to have kept Andrew alive and conscious, in his condition, for such a long time -- not fifteen ordinary days, as he had somehow been fool enough to' imagine, but fifteen of these extra-long local days. It was a medical miracle in its small way. Hardly any modern doctor could have managed it without the aid of a full range of diagnostic and supportive equipment. But what was the use of having done it when nobody else would ever find out? All hope seeped out of his mind. His overstrained will to survive collapsed like a bridge required to carry too great a load, folding almost gracefully into an unrecognizable tangle of struts and pillars. He was barely Pavel turned with machine-precise movements and headed for his surgery. In that cupboard he had passed so many times waited the Easy Way Out. He took it, sleek and chill, from its case and turned it over and over. It was well past dawn and there was plenty of light to see by.  denied him this, Pavel thought.  could have ended his life in ecstasy instead of a vain, stupid, pointless struggle against pain. Now he will die, unconscious, and -- and he turned out to be a nice guy in his way.  feel almost fond of him -- and horribly ashamed of myself. Because fm going to use what  forbade him... Convulsively he twisted the it down. It sank visibly along the main shaft and a humming rose. Pavel closed his eyes. Disbelievingly he opened them again. All was exactly as it had his hands, it was now also growing hot. He let it fall with an oath. A hissing noise followed, and a puff of smoke spurted from the capped end. The cap -- some kind of plastic, he guessed -- became deformed and darkened. After that it simply lay there. He stared at it incredulously for a long while: how long, he could not tell. He felt like a suicide who took much trouble over choosing and knotting a rope only to have it break under his weight. "'ril be damned," he said furiously at last. "For all that pretty case with the combination lock -- for all the padding it was nested in -- it broke when we crashed. It doesn't work!" The thing was no longer smoking. He touched it and found it merely warm. Snatching it up, he swung around to leave the surgery, blind with rage. "Til pay him back'"for leading me on this way," he heard himself muttering. "Fll get even. Fll -- " What is that? From somewhere outside came a roaring sound. The crumpled steel of the corridor vibrated. Pavel stood still, one hand already outstretched to slide back the door of Andrew's cabin. The roar faded, then grew louder again. He stared in horror at the work after all? Is this an induced illusion, the fantasy of rescue? But, surely, knowing how ashamed he had been when he was finally driven to try and use the gadget, he could rule that out. Any illusion he was capable of enjoying would exclude all memory of its existence would remind him he was condemned to death. Uncertain, he turned around -- and was suddenly pelting at full, lung-tearing speed toward the nearest opening in the hull to light his beacon with trembling fingers and keel over beside it for the rescue party to locate. A apologize for our not coming to find you sooner," said the doctor at the central hospital on Carteret. "But it was logical enough to abandon all hope the moment the PennyroyaVs course had been computed. I mean, you wouldn't expect anyone to live through a crash like that, would you?" "I guess not," Pavel said. He felt very much better, although this oxygen-rich air was still making him a trifle giddy. "And when the people did turn up they came only for salvage, right? Not for rescue?" "I'm afraid so,'-' the doctor admitted. "It was the insurance company covering that consignment of furs that chartered the ship that picked you up." He hesitated. "By the way, I'd like to compliment you on the marvelous job you did on Andrew Solichuk. You know, his family is very big here on Carteret and if he'd IF been found dead -- " He ended the sentence with a gesture. "Yes," Pavel said. "Yes, it was a pretty good job, though I say so myself." He looked absently out of the window. This was a splendid modern building, very expensive, surrounded by magnificent lawns and flowerbeds. He could see a swimming pool and a sun terrace where patients were soaking up the sunlight. Absently he caressed something smooth and heavy on his lap. He said suddenly, "How is Andrew now? I'd like to see him if I can." "I imagine that can be arranged," the doctor said heartily. "Of course, he was in very bad shape when he was brought here, but when they heard the news his family back on Earth signaled that we should spare no expense. He's had the finest surgery available on this planet. He's up and about already -- and as a matter of fact, I believe he asked to see you. Come with me." Rising, he added with a chuckle: "Aren't you glad that thing of yours was broken after all?" "What?" Pavel gave him a confused stare. "Oh, this?" He hefted "We assumed it was," the doctor said. "You were clinging to it for dear life. When you were unBallanttne Books poration -- we were last month -- (speaking of it that is), there are lots of traps In becoming a large corporate structure. Immobility is one. There seems to be a direct correlation between number of people and the ability to move. We are trying to offset this by doing our publishing in separate pockets, as It were -- hence Beagle, Walden, Comstock and the new London operation. Ballantine Books' far-flung Empire. All of which make it possible for the original BB's to nip off to places like San Francisco for a couple of days or to get Annie over here for a week (well, hell, how else would we have gotten the galleys and for others to visit us from various points of our small globe. In this way we hope to evade yet another problem of bigness -- lack of communication.  AS TO what happens within our offices of (now) Vk floors, it's a bloody mad house. We conducted a small poll recently and found that not one of the #-odd bodies now located here would want it any other way. Working in this firm does something to people. As an example of our esprit-decorps (if that is, indeed, what it can be called) the entire Accounting Department is flowering forth in beards. Formidable. A lot of us even read our own books -- outside of the editors, that is. (This is a rare thing in a pub lishing house.) This department must sadly admit to not being able to keep up with the whole list any more. Just the Adult Fantasy, Science Fiction, Mysteries, Westerns, Ecology, Environment, Comstock and sex books. Enough.  to the discussion of books, what have we got for this month -- a whole fleet of books from Fred PphI and Jack subsea academy types (did you see that crazy Cousteau film on the seadragons of Galapagos?) involved in various adventures, plus another group of Clark Ashton Smith stories tasy. Meanwhile all the H.P. Lovecraft titles in Ballantine and Beagle go bouncing from glory to glory. Great stuff. Sincerely... BB dergoing your psychiatric reorientation they wanted to take it away, but when I saw how violently you reacted to losing it I told them they ought to let you hang on to it. A sort of mental sheet-anchor. You say it isn't yours?" "No, it belonged to Andrew." Pavel stared wonderingly down at the thing. "'It must have sunk all sorts of barbs in my subconscious if I clung to it as you say I did. I guess it's time I got rid of it. I'll give it back to Andrew, let him know it wouldn't have helped anyway. He was at me to use it, you know, for days and days after we landed. I mean crashed." "I'm not surprised." The doctor nodded. "Suffcring the way he was -- Still, according to what he's been saying, you infected him -- so to speak -- with the will to live. He's very anxious to see you again, you know." He courteously indicated that Pavel should precede Him through the door. A nd there he was: almost unrecognizably lean, nearly naked in the bright warm sunlight, with a few traces of scarring around his waist and lower back but grinning from ear to ear. He had been in the pool and drops of water were still running down his body, but he hurled aside the towel IF he had been about to use and advanced on Pavel with a shout of joy. "Pavel! How can I ever thank you for saving my life? You were right, right all along -- if it hadn't been for you, I wouldn't be here now, back in one piece, able to enjoy life again! Here, let me shake your hand." His voice changed even as he put out his hand. "What's that?" he said faintly and all the color faded from his cheeks. "It's -- You bastard!" "What?" Standing uncertainly before him, Pavel held up the was just about to tell you. If you'd -- " "You devil!" Andrew snatched it from him and stared at the capped end. It was obvious that it had been pushed home. "You activated it. After all your pious preaching you activated it. And -- and -- " He looked about to be physically sick. "And all this must be illusion after all! Which means I'm going to die -- just as I'd finally found out how to enjoy being alive! You bastard, you devil! His face contorted into a mask of fury. "Now just a moment," said the doctor at Pavel's side, stepping forward. Pavel himself was frozen with pure amazement, incapable of speaking, barely able, to think. But the doctor was too late. Raising the heavy plasteel head with all the force his newly discovered health and vigor afforded, Andrew brought it slamming down and smashed open Pavel's skull as completely and as fatally as the hull of the wrecked Pennyroyal,  P.O. Box #I #, Santa Monica, Cal. # iJiTM'i ny Jjhn n.' n  jr .un. nrticle by Greg Bei'lord n new coi Sample Subscription # issues for SI. S# per year T hey were waiting for Andy Galt as he left the Weather Control Complex at the end of the Dawn Shift: Pinchot, sleek and dandified even in a Survey coverworried look on his too-small face. Gray, lean as a ferret, bright-eyed, nervous, and Timmins, silent as usual. "You've heard?" Pinchot said. "They did it." Galt nodded. "Some politico who's never been within five lights of Colmar decides we need to open another hundred miles of desert," Gray said. "So five hundred of us are going to be drafted and shipped out to the plateau to play the hardy pioneer." "We knew they were going ahead," Walt said, "Why act surprised?" "There was always a chance they'd. take our warning and back down," Gray said. He had a thin, high voice, a mouth that seemed always to be grinning a secret grin. "It couldn't have been more blatant if they were trying to goad us beyond endurance," Pinchot said. "It's as if they were thumbing their noses and daring us to do something." ( Please turn to page #  TO First, can you koep from losing?  fhen, con you koop from winning? T he craslf of breaking glass was like an explosion in the darkness. Planetary Administrator Andrew Galt came awake, rolled off the side of the bed and hugged the floor. In the silence a final glass fragment fell from the window frame to the rug. Galt got to his feet, saw the paper-wrapped bolt lying by the dresser. the back of a recently published ration application form. Galt grunted and tossed the paper away. It was nearly dawn, he saw. He dressed and went down to the kitchen. Freddy, his butler-valetdriver-bodyguard-secretary was there, brewing coffee. "You're up early, Mr. Administrator," he said formally. "No protocol this early in the ( Please turn to page #I ) ( Continued from page I # ) sounding frightened. He swallowed. "We held off until now to give them a chance to see reason. They didn't. Opening a new sector now is a smack in the teeth to every man in the colony." "It's not just a little kick in the mouth," Gray said. "It's slavery for all of us who are tagged to go out on the advance team. And for what? To give the Colonial Bureau a nice growth rate to brag about." "To fill politicians' pockets back on Terra," Pinchot corrected. "We're supposed to give up our homes, families, friends, move out into the desert, live in lash-up hutments, eat issue rations, work like horses fourteen hours a day -- " "I'm not afraid of work," Galt said. "If it were on a voluntary basis I might even sign on." "But it's not voluntary, Galt. It's compulsory. They decide who goes and for how long." "Even here in town it's serfdom," Gray said. "Look at you -- with an advanced degree in administration -- putting in your two years on a board at Weather like any clod. And Pinch, here, with a Master's in personel dynamics " "What about the petition, Pinchot?" Galt cut off the complaint impatiently. "Didn't you get an answer?" an inside pocket, handed it over. It was a letter on the stationery of the Colonial Administrator, formally -- and patronizingly, Galt thought -- thanking the addressee for his interest in administration policy. "It was addressed to me by name," Pinchot said, "not to the Committee. Don't ask me how they knew. But it doesn't matter now." He tore the letter in two and tossed it aside. "So much for appeals to established authority. We tried the peaceful way. Now we're taking matters into our own hands. Soare you with us, Galtor against us?" "He doesn't have to be either," Timmins spoke up. "He's got a right to be neutral." Pinchot shook his head. "Not any more," he said. "The time's come to take sides." "The Committee of Fifty," Galt said, "consisting of forty-one members by actual count, out of over twenty-five thousand colonists -- " "What percentage of French peasants staged the French Revolution?" Gray demanded. "How many Americans actually fired on the Redcoats? How many Bolsheviks tjssed out the Czar?" "W'cl do it," Pinchot said, his eyes naj'" and intent. "We move IF in fast, lake the Port and the Comm Center, the generator and pumping stations, the depot and warehouses, grab Admin House -- and we're in charge." "What about the Security Force?" "We'll bottle them up in their barracks." "Spacearm could blow us off the planet." "But they won't. BuCol wants profits, that means operating mines and plants. We'll cooperate with them; they won't get rough. They'U#accepl the fait accompli  All heads turned as the soft H'Arr of a lurbodyne sounded. A police carl came into view; the men stood silent as it coasted to a stop beside them. A tall, loose-jointed man in Security uniform swung down, sauntered over. He was a stranger, loo tall, too pale, out from Terra, not a colonial. "Let's see your IDs, fellows,' he said in a nasal Terran accent. His partner sal stolidly on the carl, watching. The four colonists handed over their lags, which were scrutinized cursorily and handed back. "What are you doing here?" the Security man asked in a laz tone, as if he didn't much care but was asking anyway. Gall fell his face straining hand. "Minding our own business." he said harshly. "Why?" The Security man looked him over casually. "Come over to the flat," he said easily. "What for?" Gall said. "Move," the cop snapped and flipped a small rod from his belt. Gall walked over to the carl. "Turn around, get your hands up behind your head." Galt followed orders. Careless hands slapped down his sides, deftly turned his pockets inside out. The Security man grunted. "That's all. Break it up now. I don't want to see you hanging around in the streets after five bells." The carl rolled away. Pinchol came over, picked up the items the Securiix man had dropped on the pavement, handed them to Gall. "They're nice fellows." he said softly, "just doing their job." " hen?" Gall asked tightly. "Tonight. Be at the Watergate at midnight, read) for action." Pinchol said. "I ll be there." Gall said. street, Galt thought about it. He remembered stirring stories he'd read in grade school of hardy pioneers of half a century earlier his grandfather among them who had come out from Terra during the Population Riots to cast their lot for ihemselves and their families on the virgin world called Colmar. It had been a terrifying crossing: five thousand men and women in the hold of a marginally spaceworthy freighter, packed like sardines with barely space to move, fed on minimal rations, three bodies aloted to each bunk, sharing community toilets, with no amusements, no privacy, no relief for the long months of the voyage. And arriving at the end of it not on the soft, green world of open spaces and fresh air they'd been led to expect -- but on the harsh bare rock of Colmar. There'd been riots then and some vors had voted to stay, to take their chances on the new world, to conquer or die. Very melodramatic, Galt thought to himself. But whafs it got to do with today? They worked out their lives to give us -- their descendants -- something better. But do we have it? Weve seeded the oceans, made soil, planted crops. Today we can talk in the open air without respirators, eat our home-grown vegetables; we have a town with an auditorium, a sports arena and a public library , , , "But we're still slaves," he said aloud. "We've been used; we dance to Terra's tune. The best of our products go off-planet in return for a bare subsistence level of imports. And the time has come for a change." T hey were a vague crowd in the darkness. Galt pushed his way through, turning his face away from a beam of light from a pocket flash. Pinchot appeared, a white sweatband around his forehead. His face was taut; his tongue flicked restlessly at his lower lip. He handed Galt a small plastic-boxed talker. "You're on Tein One, hitting Admin House. You worked a summer there as a messenger, you know the layout. You lie low until it's secured. If Gray -- I mean, when Gray and his team secure The port they'll call in. Same with Tomkin, Pyle, Bergson -- all the teams will report to you when they've pinned down their objectives. ITl liaise with you -- " "Where am I supposed to hide while the rest of you are winning the war?" "You take cover in the park while the rest of the team goes in. When you see their signal -- we're using survey flares -- move in and take over the switchboard." Pinchot beckoned to a tall, lean man. "Fry's your Team Leader. You stick close to him until they move in. Okay, get going." Galt followed Fry and the other members of his team -- two men and a girl named Teresa -- as they IF threaded their way through the now-dispersing throng, turned east along the Outer Drive, heading for the park. The talker box muttered and crackled, monitoring terse conversations. As they turned into Park Way, Galt caught Fry's arm. "That's a copflat parked up there." He pointed to a police cart under a pole light a hundred yards distant. "There's nobody near it," Fry said and shook off his hand. "Come on. We've got three minutes to get in position." The party went on, entered the park via a service gate, crossed toward the line of trees behind which the lights of Admin House glowed peacefully. They halted beside a fountain which tossed sprays up into colored light. "There's a gap in the hedge," Fry pointed. "As soon as you see my flares, come in on the run." Galt nodded and took up his post behind a screen of shrubbery as the others slipped silently away. They reached the street, started across. A fine mist of spray from the fountain dampened Galt's face. An imported insect alighted on his neck. He brushed it away. The spotlights lanced out simultaneously from two points; one was aimed downward from the roof of Admin House, raking across the lawn, pinpointing the gate through which Fry and Teresa were just passing; the other, from the parked copflat, struck the group horizontally, threw stark shadows against the hedges. The two conspirators caught outside the gate froze for a moment, then turned and ran, their feet noisy in the silent street. An amplified voice boomed out. "Stop where you are! Davies, Henddrson! We know you, you can't get away -- " The voice broke off as light winked and a shot crashed from the gate. Fry was lying flat in the shadow of the ornamental gatepost. Galt saw another flash, but the second shot was drowned by the short savage roar of a police bullet-pump. Fry's body was flung a foot into the air and hurled ten feet back like a bundle of rags. The two runners skidded to a halt and threw themselves face down in the street. Galt saw Teresa reach the front entrance of the government building; as she ran up the steps, the door burst open and two uniformed security men gathered her in. Men in battle armor, hand guns ready, were swarming into the street, clustering at the gate and around the captives. Heavy footsteps sounded behind Galt. He hugged the ground, ducked as lights glared, playing across the shrubbery around him. A man went past less than six feet away. At that moment, the talker box uttered a burst of static and a small clear voice said, "Power station secured. One man hurt and a couple of windows broken -- otherwise no damage." The Security man who had just passed halted; gravel crunched as he swiveled, playing his light about. Galt eased back. The light flicked closer. He reached a large tree, got to his feet. A twig crackled. "Stop there," the Security man barked. Galt ran. A shot sang through foliage. He heard sounds ahead, veered right, crashed through a head-high hedge onto a bricked path. Two uniformed men standing fifty feet away turned toward him; he plunged around a bench dived into massed foliage. It yielded and he was in the clear. A tremendous blow on the calf of his right leg sent him tumbling. He rolled, tried to jump up, fell on his face. His leg was hot, numb, a dead weight. Scrabbling frantically with his hands, he dragged himself under a spread of juniper, felt the ground crumble beneath him. He rolled, fetched up with a thump in drifted leaves at the bottom of a drainage ditch. The voices and footsteps came closer, but they seemed remote and unimportant now. Galt's thoughts had leaped ahead, quite calmly, to the trial, the conviction, the prison sentence, the loss of his citizenship... T he Dark was quiet now. Listening closely, Galt could hear distant voices over the rustle of foliage in the light breeze; but nothing stirred nearby. He moved his injured leg tentatively, discovered to his surprise that it responded, though painfully. He sat up, explored the wound. There was a neat hole in the mass of muscle below and behind the knee, a less neat hole to the left of the shin. A small calibre solid shot had gone through without hitting the bone. He rose to his feet. He could walk. He brushed leaves away, climbed out of the ditch and was confronting the hedge that bordered Government Street, Through a gap he could see the lighted front of Admin House. Uniformed men were on the terrace, on the lawn. The front doors illuminated the lawns. A dozen copflats were in sight parked along the street. At first Gall didn't see it; then he did: Two-thirds of the Security Force was here, posted two deep around the front of the house; and he could see that the rear service entrance was equally guarded. But the small and inconspicuous entry at the side was shrouded in shadow. Insofar as Galt could see no Security men were near it. The talker crackled and spoke: The Power Complex was in rebel hands. Pyle, at the port, called in: IF all secure. Bergson, sounding elated, reported the virtually unopposed seizure of the pumping station. The uprising had gone well -- all but the most vital part. Administrator Blum and Major Jensen had concentrated all their forces here. They hadn't been fooled for a moment. They knew all about the Committee's plans and had been ready. But there was that side door. Galt's mouth was dry; his heart pounded painfully. It could be a trap. There might be half a dozen Sec men lying in wait for the mouse to take the cheese. But on the other hand, the door was little used; it was just possible that Jensen had overlooked it. Galt could slip away now, return home, and be as surprised as everybody else when the news came out. Or he could put his neck solidly in the noose. With a curse that was half prayer, he left his vantage point and, limping, slipped away along the hedge line. F rom a dump of shadow between the library and the Agricultural Experimental Building Galt studied the scene. He had a better view of the side door from here. Nothing stirred there. To anyone not intimately familiar with the building, there appeared to be an unbroken mass of shrubbery along the east wall. Galt took a deep breath and stepped out, crossed the street openly, two hundred yards from the lighted gate of Admin House. He went back past the west wing of the elementary school, crossed the playground, came up along a path to a point fifty feet from the rear corner of Admin House, paused for a moment, then ran across a strip of open ground to the door. There was no alarm. He tried the latch, then pushed with his shoulder. The panel yielded slightly. He stepped back, kicked straight out at the lock. Plastic and metal shattered, the door bounced in. Galt slid inside, shut the door and stood in darkness, listening. Voices sounded from the front of the house; somewhere a radio crackled and a toneless voice droned, too faint to make out the words. Feet clumped to and fro. There was a stair a few feet ahead. Galt felt his way in darkness, found the newel post, started up. He saw dim light above. On the second floor he looked along a carpeted hall. At the far end, a man in mufti with a paper in his hand emerged from a room, hurried away. Galt went on up. The third floor corridor was illuminated. A uniformed Security man stood twenty feet away, fiddling with the mechanism of his blastgun. The man bolstered the weapon, walked to the far end pf the hall, lifted a house phone from its hook, began an inaudible conversation. He turned his back to Galt's position, still talking. Galt slid out, eased silently along the passage to the intersection with the wide corridor off which' the administrative suite opened. Four Security men were in sight -- two posted beside the ivoryenameled double doors, the other two at the main staircase. One of the men guarding the stairs descended a few steps to carry on a conversation regarding the wherabouts of someone named Katz. His partner leaned over the rail, his back to Galt. The two men on the door had their heads turned, following the exchange. Galt stepped out and walked silently and swiftly toward the door adjacent to the guarded portal. He was six feet from it when one of the men glanced his way, gave a startled grunt and grabbed for his slung blastgun, fumbled it. "Here, you, where you think you're going?" he blurted. "Special messenger," Galt said crisply. He reached the door for which he had been headed as the second guard swung his gun around; Galt tried the knob; it turned; he plunged through as two shots racketed in the hall, gouging molten plastic from the doorframe. He spun, slammed the door, tripped the security lock system, heard armor sliding into place as a heavy body struck the panel from outside. Men hammered and shouted as Galt ran across the room, paused for an instant at the connecting door, picturing the slugs that would rip into his body if the administrator had posted guards inside his office as well as in the hall. Then he opened it and stepped through. Administrator Blum was a plumpish man with graying hair; he sat behind his desk, his eyes on the hall door, an expression of surprise on his face. As Galt appeared he whirled, reached for a desk drawer. Galt dived, knbcked the older man's hand aside, scooped up the #mm needier, aimed it at Blum. "What -- what -- " Blum said, then collected himself. He straightened his clothing, fixed a stern expression on his round face, looked challengingly at Galt. "Well? You've forced your way into my office for a reason, I suppose, since you'll most certainly be taken into custody before you leave here." "Your Security men are overpaid," Galt said. "They're expert at harassing citizens but not so good when it comes to something complicated -- like watching both sides of a house." Blum's features flinched. "I suggest you give yourself up at once, Andy," he said. "You've IF made your point. I'Jl personally look into the conduct of security affairs -- " "I'm not here to complain about inefficient police work' Galt said. "I'm here to take over the government." B lum stared across the desk at Galt, who pulled a chair around and sat down. The pounding at the door went on; an intercom screen on the administrator's desk buzzed insistently until Galt reached across and switched it off. "Andy," Blum said in a reasonable, kindly tone, "I've know your parents for thirty years. I remember the day you were born -- " "Make it Mr. Galt -- Mickey." Blum jerked as if he had been stung by a wasp. "I hardly think disrespect will advance your cause -- whatever it is. Now, if you don't mind, tell me why you're here. I suggest you hurry, since my Security forces will be in here at any moment -- " "I doubt that. Your locks are pretty solid." "You can't possibly believe you can succeed in this abortive uprising!" "We have the port, the power plant. Comm Center. The major seems to have overlooked a couple of bets while he concentrated on Admin House." "See here, Andy -- Mr. Galt. You were always a level-headed lad, a good scholar, potentially a fine citizen and a valuable colonist. What are you doing mixed up with these anarchists? People like Daniel Pinchot -- known radicals -- soreheads -- agitators -- " "Dan was a Sector Scholar. He may be impatient with the established order, but he's no fool, Mr. Administrator. I'm mixed up with him because it was that or go on the way we've been going -- and that wasn't good enough." Blum's face shifted to a look of grim determination. "I hardly think it's the function of a handful of malcontents to determine unilaterally what is or is not good enough for the welfare of the colony as a whole." "And you are?" "I was duly appointed by the Colonial Administration to carry out my function; I've been trained for this work; I have more years of experience in administration than you have of life!" "I didn't appoint you." "You're intelligent enough to recognize the fact that specialists who've devoted their lives to the problems of government and administration are better qualified to run matters than a pack of -- of amateurs who regard any restriction of what they consider their freedom and righas intolerable burdens!" "A pack of profit-minded bureaucrats and politicians who tell me I have to give up everything that makes life livable and devote a couple of years of hard labor to opening up new territories that we don't need or want." "You're a fool, Galt. You don't know what you're talking about! The economy must expand, or -- " "Or certain big corporations back on Terra won't make as much as they'd like out of our blood, sweat and tears." "That's a childishly simplistic version of matters. Why -- " "You mean Parson's Bay and General Logistics and North American Materials won't show a profit from opening up the new sector?" "Well -- of course they hope to! And why shouldn't they? They funded the great bulk of the developmental work, provided most of our specialized equipment, supplied technical experts -- and still do -- " "All at a nice return on their money. And we do the work. Especially the five hundred names that got pulled out of a hat to open Sector Twelve." "So, like impatient kindergarten children, you're going to take over the nursery and make it all one long playtime, is that Th Andy -- Mr. Galt?" "The mines will continue to operate, Mr. Administrator. We'll still export -- and don't tell me how good and kind Terra is to buy our products. I know how scarce nonorganically contaminated chemicals are today." "Suppose a squadron of Peace Enforcers arrives to restore order -- " "That won't open any mines." B lum gazed at Galt. It was (quiet in the corridor now. A call light blinked on the big desk, ignored. "You want all the advantages of what other men have built," Blum said slowly, "but you want them without working for them, without effort, without commitment or obligation. Well, the Universe doesn't work that way, my young friend. Nothing is free. Society isn't witholding your birthright. You have no such birthright -- not in the sense you're apparently demanding." "I have the same birthright any animal in the wild has," Galt said. "To take what I can get and hold," "So you'll seize the granary and eat until it's empty. But who'll refill it for you, eh? You'll grab the trideo set you've always wanted -- but who'll repair it, who'll supply the power to run it, who'll do the programing and the acting, who'll pay the bills?" "We will. We're prepared to work as hard as required. But we intend to take the rewards for IF ourselves -- for Colmar -- including you, Mr. Blum, if you decide to stay -- instead of sending them off-world for the benefit of corporate executives we've never met, who've never seen Colmar and never will." "It's the arrogance of it that astounds me," Blum said wonderingly. "We all have ourobligations, Galt, whether it pleases us or not. The food you eat, the clothes you wear, the entertainments you enjoy, the education you were given didn't just pop up out of the desert. Someone made them. They represent human ingenuity and effort -- and you've reaped the benefits." "That's a debt that's passed along from generation to generation, Mr. Blum. A man owes nothing to the past. Life can't demand payment for itself." "I've always thought you were a young man with a sense of decency, of justice, of regard for the rights of others. Tell me, Andy: if this -- revolution of yours succeeds by some wild chance -- what then? Will you rest easily with your loot? Can you justify to yourself theft on a grand scale, and settle down to enjoy your stolen goodies?" "You're taking the position," Galt said, "that because the government exists -- " "Legally," Blum put in. "Because the government exists legally, that I'm therefore obligated to support it -- or at least obey it. But I challenge that statement. Suppose the government were an outright tyranny: would I be obligated to connive at my own enslavement?" "That's absurd -- " "No. A man has a natural right that supersedes legal obligations. Overthrowing a legally constituted government is treason -- unless you win. Because if you win, you change the laws. Then anyone who supports the old government is the traitor." "This is mere sophistry, Galt. You can't mean -- " "The right to revolt," Galt said slowly, as if thinking aloud, "is the most basic right a man has." "Activist jargon," Blum snorted. "Not if we win -- and we have won, Mr. Administrator." Blum's face flushed. "Nonsense. A pack of rabble-rousers couldn't possibly have -- " "Wrong. We're not rabblerousers, we're the rabble itself, Mr. Administrator. Mr. ex-Administrator. Check for yourself." Blum turned to his communicator panel, poked keys. His face tightened as no lights responded to his calls. "You can still get through to Security barracks," Galt said. "Call Jensen and tell them to put down their guns." B lum punched out the code. The angry face of Major Jansen appeared on the desk screen. "Mr. Administrator, thank God you're all right!" "Never mind that," Blum said. "What's the situation?" "These hoodlums have invaded a number of installations, Mr. Administrator, but I can clean them out. Just the same. I'd suggest you priority." "Pm afraid I'm not precisely at liberty to do that, Stig," Blum said. He angled the pickup to include Galt, gun in hand. Jensen's face jerked. "What -- " "The, ah. Revolutionary Committee seems to have outflanked us," Blum said. "Stand fast, Mr. Administrator," Jensen said between clenched teeth. "My boys'll blast their way in there and -- " "Lay down your arms, Jensen," Galt cut in, leaning forward. "We hold every strong point in the colony -- " "I've got forty trained men on the grounds of Admin House," Jensen grated. "You'll never get out alive, you damned bandit!" "Don't talk like an ass, Stig," Blum said calmly. "He's outmanuvered you. It's checkmate." He looked at Galt. "What do you want from me, Andy?" "Capitulate. Hand over control to the Committee and step down. I'll guarantee your safe conduct -- and Jensen's, too, unless he does something stupid, like firing on our men." Blum stared levelly across at Galt. "Are you sure this is what you want? The responsibility -- " "Tell him," Galt said harshly. Blum turned to the screen. "Lay down your arms, Stig," he said. "I'm signing a formal resignation in favor of Andrew Galt." T en minutes later there was a brief clamor outside the door. Pinchot's voice came over the talker. "Open up, Galt! We're in complete possession." Galt crossed the room and released the locking system. The door burst open. Gray came through, grinning a wide fox grin. He saw Blum, jerked up the weapon in his hand. Behind him, a gun fired from six feet; Gray shrieked as the gun flew from his hand in a spatter of blood. He went to his knees, gripping his wrist, his hand welling crimson, as other men crowded into the room. It was Timmins who had fired. He came forward to stand beside Galt. "Why the hell'd you do that?" Gray keened. "That's the pig that had Fry and Len and Jeannie killed!" IF "What did you expect him to do, give them a safe conduct?'" Galt said tightly. "Here, what's going on," Pinchot said, pushing forward. "You'd better give me the gun." He held out his hand, the other hand resting on the butt of the pistol at his hip. "I thought the idea was to improve government, not to start a reign of terror," said Timmins. Galt said. "Get rid of the gun, Timmins." Timnins tossed the weapon aside. "Who are you to be giving orders?" Pinchot demanded of Galt. "I'm the only one here with admin training. I'll hold the office until we can stage elections -- unless you want to start your new regime and a few others -- and somehow I don't think a purge will convince BuCol that you're fit to run the Colony." Pinchot stared at Gait, eyes narrowed. Then he relaxed, thrust out a hand. "Makes sense," he said. "Let's go, men." "You took a terrible chance," Blum said after the others had withdrawn. "I suppose that's part of an revolution, Mr. Adminstrator." Blum sighed. "Call me Mickey." he said. "There are a few things I ought to familiarize you with before I go." F our weeks later Galt sat behind the big desk, frowning at the papers before him. He shuffled through them, sighed. There was a perfunctory tap at the door and Pinchot came in. "Afternoon, Mr. Administrator," he said. "What are you looking so glum about? They elected you, didn't they?" "I'll step down in your favor any time, Pinchot." "No, thanks. I never did like paperwork." He eyed the stack on and BuCol have both recognized you as the people's choice. You're stuck with it. I'm quite happy as Chief of Operations." His genial expression faded a bit as he spoke. He swung a chair around and sat down. "In that connection, Galt -- what about the import program I outlined? You've had it three days now -- " "I know. Luxury goods. Official cars, cooler units, trideo programs." "So? Don't we have the right to spend our money to suit ourselves? Isn't that what the takeover was all about?" "Sure. What money?" Pinchol's face went tight. "The price of the last shipment of ores, for example," he snapped. 'Mt all went toward our credit deficit with Outplanet." "'You expect me to believe that?" '"You can check the figures with Anderson if you like. No matter how many times we add them up they still come out the same. We're running in the red and what credit we still have has to go for necessities." "I heard all that from Anderson. That's why I'm here. It's not good enough, Galt. This isn't why we threw out BuCol just to carry on the same old swindle." "'You can take over any time, Pinchot." Galt slid a sheet of paper across to the other man. "'My resignation, all ready for signature." Pinchot stared at the document, pushed it away. ""I don't get it," he growled. ""You're spouting Blum's line, the BuCol line -- " ""It's nobody's line. It's just the facts, Pinchot. We're exporting X kilotons of minerals at Y creds per ton, and we're importing Z creds worth of basic material. And we're sliding a little deeper into the red every quarter." ""They're overcharging us, holding us up on prices -- " ""Negative. They're selling to us at seven percent under the open market scale. BuCol policy." "Then we can raise our prices -- " "Negative again. It's marginal now. If our prices plus haulage go above costs of local procurement and refining, we're out of business." "Thenwhat in God's name can we do?" Galt pushed another sheet of paper across the desk. Pinchot glanced at it, then stared at Galt. "Are you right out of your mind? This is Blum's Opening Order for Sector Twelve." "Wrong. It's my order for opening Sector Twelve." "You can't do it. The people won't accept it. What will Gray Tomkin and the others say? They -- we -- risked our necks fighting this same crazy scheme." "We need more income, less dependence on imports. We have to extend our usable acreage and expand our mining operations. If you can think of another way to do if. I'll welcome the suggestion." Pinchot's face looked slack and grayish. "Is this what we took over -- the same old headaches, only worse?" "Did we really take over, Pinchot?" Galt asked tiredly. "Or did they con us into standing on our own feet?" Pinchot swore. "I agree," Galt said. Now let's get to work. I need five hundred names for Sector Twelve. Any suggestions?"  IF day, Freddy," Galt said as he sat down at the table. few of my admirers came by to give me a nice sendoff for the day. Colmar's twentieth anniversary of independence." Galt gave a snort that was not quite the laugh he had intended. "Don't take it so hard, Andy," Freddy said. He poured coffee, put a cup before Galt, sat down opposite him. "You've always done what was best in a tough situation." Galt looked at him sardonically as he sipped the bitter brew. "Funny how you assume it wasn't flowers they threw, Freddy. Anybody would think I wasn't popular." Freddy lifted his powerful shoulders. "You can't please 'em all," he said. "It seems I'm not pleasing any of them." "You're doing what you've got to do, Andy. The Colony's a marginal operation. It's not your fault that times are tough. These babies want it all now, that's all. They see loo much Interplan trideo, they've got ideas about how life ought to be fat and soft. They've got to face up to facts sometime. Colmar's a poor world. We just can't afford a three-hour day and welfare caviar." "Try telling that to some Econ (Continued from page #) graduate doing his time in the labor pool." "I know; so they gripe. What about it? If they'd been here back in the old days they'd have had something to gripe about. Do they ever think about what the first people here had to face up to, seventy years ago?" "Of course not," Galt said. "Why should they? These aren't the old days. This is now. And they're young. They want to live today, not some time in the next century. I can't blame 'em." "Sure -- and so did your grandad want to live -- and mine. That's why they came out here -- to nothing. To make something of it -- of a dead world -- something that hadn't existed before. They had no guarantees, no route back. They had to whip Colmar or die -- and plenty of them died." "Ancient history, Freddy. Today they know there's something better than hard work and rationing. They want it. And Freddy, so do I -- " "But you're not whining for it -- and one day it'll happen -- you're working for it like they did back then. It must have been a frightening thing, Andy, when they unloaded from the freighters and looked around and saw a dead world, not even a blade of grass. In seventy years we've turned it into a place where a man can live -- but not without effort. Let 'em gripe, Andy -- just so they piir in their time like everybody else -- like you did." "Involuntary servitude. 'Tyranny' is what they call it." Freddy snorted. "So? What are you supposed to do, back down because they call you dirty names? You know what's got to be done, Andy. You're doing it. It takes guts. You got 'em. More coffee?" "No, thanks. I might as well go on down to the office. Maybe we'll beat the rock-throwers for a change." "If it was me," Fxeddy said in the :ar, "I'd stay home and to hell with 'em. Let 'em see how things go after a few days with nobody making the decisions. They're complaining now: let 'em see how it'd be if you. weren't on the job to untangle the knots -- " "Don't get carried away, Freddy. Any competent administrative type could do the same job." "Maybe," Freddy said. "It's not seeing what you have to do that's tough; it's doing it when the mob is yelling for your head. You could be the most popular man on Colmar tomorrow if you'd give in." "And we'd be bankrupt the day after. Sure, Freddy. But those are just facts; they don't have any appeal to the emotions." the administrator's car swung in through the open gates. In his office, Galt attacked a stack of priority applications: fifty tons of fabricated steel sections for Shaft # # versus sixty tons of the same urgently needed for the extension to the loading docks; four loads of feeder fuel in stock to be allocated among nine agencies, all yelling for immediate action; computer components on order#or six months by Supply, demanded by Routing to prevent imminent shutdown of the entire NW range... Galt looked up at a sharp rap at the door. Timmins, the executive officer, poked his head in. Through the open door Galt could hear sounds of an altercation. "Another delegation to see you," Timmins said. Galt rose and went out into the corridor. From below came voices raised in anger, other voices replying. Feet clattered on the stairs. A disheveled young man in maintenance grays appeared, Freddy close behind him. "Hold it, Freddy," Galt said. Both men stopped. "Let him come up." "Chief, he might be armed -- " Timmins said quickly, but Galt brushed that aside. "You want to see me?" he asked the inturder. "That's right," the man in gray IF said defiantly. He brushed back his hair, straightened his jacket. "We're citizens; we've got a right to be heard." "Who's 'we?' " "The Party. ' The young man said it flatly, as if inviting challenge. "Come along to the office," Galt said. "Frisk them first," he heard Timmins say as he turned away. There were five people in the delegation, three men, two women, ranging in age from eighteen to thirty-five, Galt estimated. He knew them all by sight, two by name -- not a difficult feat in a population of thirty thousand. One of the women -- a plump, pretty girl in nurse's green -- stepped forward and offered Galt a folded paper. Timmins, read it over his shoulder. "The same old refrain," the exec said. "Improved public transport, more entertainment facilities, shorter hours. It's nonsense -- " "It's not nonsense to us," the girl said sharply. "Or to me either, Miss Dolph," Galt said. "I'd like to lead an easier life myself. Unfortunately, we can't afford it -- not yet." "You've got yours," the man in gray said. "Official mansion, official car, the best of everything -- " "Look here," Timmins started, but Galt waved a hand to silence him. "Let's keep it factual -- Jonas, isn't it? My official residence is a standard Class Vb unit; I get the same food, clothing, and power ration as anyone else. As you know. As for the car, I used to walk -- until the rock density got a bit high." "If you were doing your Job the way you ought to, nobody would be throwing things," Jonas snapped. "I've got an idea Freddy was at the point of bruising you a bit when I happened along. Does that mean you had it coming to you?" "He's a hired goon -- that's different." "What is it you expect me to do, Jonas, Miss Dolph?" "Ease the restrictions on life," the girl said promptly. "Let people enjoy living while they can. Shorten the work day, give us some leisure time activities and facilities, end rationing, increase consumer imports." G alt nodded. "Anything else?" "Plenty morej' Jonas said. "End the labor draft. Raise pay, right across the board. Lift the offworld travel restrictions, bring in more outsystem entertainers." "For what it cost to open this new Sector," another of the delegation spoke up, a small, timidlooking man with a bad complexion, "we could have founded a program of concert artists that would have given us some contact with the cultural life of the Arm' "Sector Nineteen gives us a marine agricultural facility," Galt said mildly. "In twenty years it may be our biggest food producer. We may be able to shorten the time to self-support capability by three decades -- " "We know all the propaganda lines' Jonas said. "We've heard all that before." "Then what are you doing here?" Galt snapped. That's easy, Mr. Administrator," Jonas said with a sneer. "We don't believe the official line." "The records are open to the public," Galt said. "They can be faked, too." "Why?" Galt shot back. "To delude the public." "Why should I want to delude the public?" "For obvious reasons -- " "Name them," Galt snapped. "All right. To justify your program of overwork and underpay, long hours and no recreation, luxury for the few at the cost of slavery for the many -- " "What luxury?" Galt cut in sharply. "We've already covered that particular allegation. It's nonsense and you know itand so does everybody in this room." "Look, chief, this has gone far cut him off. "You're here charging me and the rest of the administration with a deep, dark plot -- " "You're depriving the people of their basic rights," Jonas shouted. "You name one right you're being deprived of, Jonas, and I'll personally see that you get a lifetime pension," Galt said. "All right -- the right to a reasonable amount of leisure time, for openers. The eight-hour day went out with coal-fired ground cars." "What would you call a reasonable amount of leisure time?" "Time enough to do a few things. To have hobbies, play a musical instrument, visit your Triends -- " "Wrong, Mr. Jonas. That's nice, maybe, but it's not reasonable. Reasonable means what's physically possible. We have just so much manpower," he went on, raising his voice as Jonas tried to cut in. "We have to allocate that manpower in such a way as to keep industrial operations going at the rate required to produce enough exportable output to keep the economy afloat. You want more imported trideos and traveling art shows? Fine. Then we'll have to work longer hours, not shorter." "Official bullwash," Jonas spat out the words like a bite of wormy apple. "As I said, the records are pubIF lie. Look at them or not, suit yourself. But don't come bursting in here again with your proposals for instant utopia until you've done your homework." "That's what I thought we'd get," one of the women said in a shrill, nervous voice. "A brushoff. Excuses. We should have known better than to waste our time." She glared at Galt with eyes as sharp as stakes. "I welcome constructive suggestions," Galt said, meeting her gaze steadily. "Come back when you have one." "We won't be back," Jonas said. "We're through talking." They departed, slamming doors,Galt asked Timmins when silence had fallen again. "Painfully. Except that there were only fifty of us -- " "Forty-two," Galt corrected. " -- and this time half the population is agitating. No one tried to explain to us; if they had, we might even have listened." "Don't count on it. We wanted change -- any change. We got it." "And all the grief that went with it. But these people today won't listen. They remember when we threw BuCol out; Pinchot and a few others were promising them the world. Twenty years later they're still on short rations. They're unhappy. And they mean business, Andy. This isn't just a little band of soreheads -- " "I know all that, Ben. Are you suggesting I should promise them pie in the sky? What happens when they discover it isn't there?" Timmons looked solemn. "Andy, for this generation -- and for a lot of people who ought to know better -- you symbolize everything that's wrong with life. By removing you, you see, they can remove their problems -- they think." "You're suggesting I quit while I'm ahead?" "I'm suggesting you quit while you're alive, damn it!" "And do what? Sit back and watch Colmar die?" "You've had offers -- three in the last six months that I know of; I wrote the answers turning them down. You could still take that post at Yale, lecturing on problems of the frontier economy -- " "And read in the fax about how the Colmar experiment failed. Ben, have you ever considered what would happen if we had to throw in the towel and invite BuCol back in? They'd close the colony down, evacuate us to Terra -- to beehive housing, synthetic rations -- " "I know. It's unthinkable. And dammit, Colmar can make it! We have the minerals, the seas -- a whole world to exploit!" Timmins smacked his fist into his palm. "If they could just see it! Just give us time!" "Bringing life to a dead world is a big undertaking, Ben. Maybe too big. Maybe we havn't got what it takes. But I have to stay and do what I can -- for as long as I can." "And be a martyr," Timmins said grimly. "There's nothing noble about it," Galt said. "This is my homeworld. I couldn't survive on Terra either. I'm fighting for my life; the only life I know." "Then don't throw it away. Let me recruit an escort for you. I can from Aldo -- " "Negative, Ben. Importing foreign gun-handlers to protect me from the people that voted me in would be the end." "Then what in God's name are you going to do?" "Play it by ear -- and hope Sector Nineteen starts paying off in time." "Comes up with a miracle, you mean." "I'd accept a miracle right now," Galt said wearily, "if it could be arranged." T WO weeks later Timmins laid a paper on Galt's desk. It had been a time of rising tensions and near-riots, broken glass -- and at least one assassination attempt which had put Freddy in the hospitol with third-degree laser burns. "Weinberg, out at Thirteen," Timmins said. "I thought you ought to see it." The executive officer's face was haggard with lost sleep. Galt scanned the paper. "Livestock? Chickens? What the devil's he doing out there, starting a zoo?" "Experimental animals," Timmins pointed out. "He wants to run some kind of tests on them." Galt rubbed his eyes. "He knows we're on the shortest meat ration since Colonization," he said wearily. "I'm surprised at Weinberg. Tell him no. Remind him he's out there to supplement our protein supply, not deplete it. And ask him what he's doing about the slimemould contamination problem he's been reporting on." Timmins nodded and turned to go. Galt stopped him before he reached the door. "Wait a minute, Ben. Disregard that last outburst. I'm too damn tired to think straight. If Dick Weinberg thinks he needs a flock of goats, damn it, he probably needs a flock of goats. Set it up--triple -- A priority." Timmins nodded again, more brightly. "And tell them to save a seat on the flier for me," Galt added. "I'm going out and see what he's up to." Timmins frowned. "That might not be a good idea, Andy. There IF was rioting at the port this afternoon and -- " "Set it up' Galt snapped, then grimaced. "I'm sorry, Ben. Nerves. Just get me on the flier. I'll ride out under a stack of old burlap bags if you say so." "I'll set it up," Timmins said tonelessly. T he view from the cargo flier was a monotonous vista of eroded ridges, gullied plains, of rock, gravel and sand, stretching across tlie endless miles. After the narrow green belt of the capital had been passed -- and its surrounding five-mile farm strip -- forty miles of undeveloped desert intervened before the dull green of a bioadapted valley appeared, far off to the west. Another seventy-five miles of arid, lifeless badlands unrolled beneath the flier; then ahead the curve of the coast and the blackblue sea beyond. They were within five miles of the Experimental Station before Galt could make out the fragile tracings of irrigation ditches, the patterns of agriformed fields, the vivid green specs that were transplanted trees shading a straggle of buildings. Offshore of the station, Galt noted, the lifeless sea was stained a dark umber. The flier landed on the scraped rectangle behind the sprawling, aluminum-and-white station. A chill wind blew sand across the open ground to ping against the flier's sides with a restless whispering. Weinberg was there to meet Galt, a sturdily built, red-haired man with big solemn eyes and a wide, downcurving mouth that belied his brisk optimism of manner. "Glad to see you, Mr. Administrator -- you bring my goats and birds and stuff?" he said, pumping Galt's hand. "Come on out of this damned wind." The marine ecologist's office, laboratory and living quarters comprised a single large untidy room with stone countertops, a clutter of glassware, a desk heaped with papers, a cot, a table with a hot-plate and dirty dishes. "Here, sit down, Andy, how about a cup of coffee and a slice of cake?" "Dick, what's this about animal experiments? I understand we're going to add seafood to our diet -- " "Sure, sure. I'll tell you all about it. How' re things in the city? I hear they're giving you a hard time, throwing rocks, the works." "Things aren't good. Ben Timmins says all we need is a small miracle from you to solve everything. You don't happen to have one in stock, do you?" "A small miracle, the man says," Weinberg said cheerfully, rattling cups. He poured, dumped things on a tray, brought it over. Galt took the cup and sipped, accepted the small plate with the slice of yellow-brown cake. "Where do you get coffee?" he barked."I thought the last stocks of luxury imports went last New Year's." "Try the cake. It's not too sweet." Galt took a bite; it tasted good. He hadn't realized how hungry he was; but then he hadn't eaten inhow many hours? "Like it?" Weinberg looked as expectant as a new bride serving her first meal. "It's fine, Dick. But -- " says," Weinberg said, rubbing his hands together. "Come this way, Andy. I want to show you something." The ecologist led the way through a long room where half a dozen green-smocked technicians worked over complicated constructions of glass tubing and containers of bubbling liquids. A sharp, burnt-toast odor filled the air. At the rear of the station Galt and Weinberg emerged on a sloping shelf of beach that led down to the waterline. Masses of dull brown scum lay in long windrows there. The surface of the sea was a dark brown, oily-looking, with sluggish swells. "You remember the problem I reported I was having with the slime formation," Weinberg said. "I see it hasn't improved any," Galt said. "I hope it's not interfering seriously with your work." "Fact is, Andy, I've about dropped everything to work on it. I think I've identified it as a mutated Fuligo Septica, probably introduced on some imperfectly sterilized glassware from Terra. We tried high-pressure steam first, but -- " "Just a minute, Dick. Dropped everything?" Galt's voice was harsh. "Maybe I haven't succeeded in making it clear that the mission of finding food supplements for the Colmarian diet is absolute top priority -- " Weinberg looked reproachfully at Galt. "Mr. Administrator, may I make my presentation?" His wide mouth quivered, the corners turning upward in spite of his obvious effort to hold them down. "What the devil are you grinning at?" "How did you like the coffee?" "Drinkable," Galt snapped. "What -- " "It's made from the sporangia phase; the stalks, you understand, desiccated, ground, and roasted." "You made that coffee out of -- this?" Galt prodded a mass of crusted brown flakes with his toe. "Uh-huh. The cake was made from the spores, with an admixIF tured of piasmodium, plus a sweetner." "Slime cake?" Galt said. "Of course all this required a certain amount of processing. We're running some ideas in glass, looking for shortcuts -- for commercial quantity production, you understand. But with a little drying and compressing, we get what, unless I flunked Chem #, is the best all-around livestock feed going." He took from his pocket a hard, dull-shiny, purple-brown cake the size of a bar of soap. "Hence the goats," he said. "And the chickens." Galt stood as if stricken. "But -- if this is true -- " He took a deep breath and became brisk. "Fine. One miracle to order -- " His voice broke and he cackled in glee. "Dick, you sneaky bastard, you've just saved a world, damn your hide!" "All in a day's work, Mr. Administrator -- " Weinberg, grinning, was gazing past Galt toward the open desert to the west. "Well, more visitors," he said. "Word must have leaked out -- " G alt turned; a dust cloud was boiling toward them, raised by a speeding vehicle. The car swung past the station, slid to a halt near the storage sheds and was immediately veiled by the dust of its own passage. "That looks like one of my maintenence carts," Galt said. "What -- " There was a shout. A man at the lab door was waving. "Call for you, Mr. Administrator. Sounds urgent." Galt started toward the building, Weinberg behind him. Three men emerged from the dust cloud now blowing away from the car; they broke into a run on a course that would intercept Galt. Something bright flashed in the hand of the leader; the flat sound of a gun cut the air. Galt threw himself down. The man in the doorway started out; there was a second shot and the technician halted, turned, fell sideways. Galt looked up to see the second of the new arrivals knock the gunner's arm aside as he fired a third time, the slug whining past Galt's face. -- alive," he heard. "We can always kill him later if it works out that way." Galt got to his feet. Weinberg went to the man who had been shot, squatted beside him, ignoring an angry command from the man with the gun. He looked up, his face pale and bleak. "Pat's dead," he said to no one in particular. The third man stood with his two fellows, all three looking dusty and windblown, a bit uncertain now. The wind whined restlessly. "You, Galt, over here," the gunner said. "You -- " addressing Weinberg -- " stay out of the way and you won't get hurt." Galt walked over to the trio. "Proud of yourself, Jonas?" Jonas swore and swung at Galt, knocked him down. "Any guns inside?" Jonas called to Weinberg. "No.' "If you're lying I'll kill you. Get the stuff," he, said to his companions. "I don't want a stick left of this place to salvage." The two went to the car, brought out packages Galt recognized as standard melt charges. They hurried toward the entrance to the station, went past the corpse sprawled on the sand, disappeared inside. An instant later there were screams; steam boiled from the entrance. A man ran out, tatters of what looked like wet gauze flapping from his face. He stumbled and went down, lay thrashing. Galt, still on the ground, swung his legs, brought Jonas down on top of him. The younger man cursed and tried to bring the gun to bear; Galt caught his wrist, felt the superior strength of the other inexorably overcoming his resistance. Suddenly Jonas was thrown clear. Weinberg stood over Galt, breathing hard. Jonas came to his knees and Weinberg swung his foot in a short, sharp kick that snapped the assassin's head back. He sank down on his face in the sand. Weinberg helped Galt to his feet; his knee was painfully wrenched. He picked up the gun dropped by Jonas. Men were coming out of the station, one still holding the live steam hose. "There's bad trouble back in the city," one of the men told Galt. "It was Mr. Timmins on the box. He said you'd better get back right away." T he hour was near dusk when the copter dropper Galt directly on the grounds of Admin House, bypassing the noisy crowd surrounding the building. Timmins met him, looking grim. "This isn't just the usual unrest, Andy," he said, "it's a concerted uprising. Mobs at the port, the Power Complex -- " he broke off. "What happened to you?" "I've had a sample. A demolition team hit the Marine Experimental Station, killed Pat Rogan. Weinberg is holding our old acquaintance Jonas and a couple of others." Timmins swore with feeling. "They tried to fire the Comm Center about an hour ago. We saved it by the skin of our teeth. There are enough citizens on our side to make it a standoff so far; but killing a man -- " "Let's get inside, Ben; I want a complete status report." Timmins finished his account twenty minutes later. IF "That's about it. The best estimate is three hundred activists, another ten thousand going along for the ride, ready to jump either way. That's damn near half the population. Opposed to them, we've got a hundred organized militia with non-lethal weapons and maybe two thousand volunteers with axe-handles and chair legs." "Get some cots set up, Ben. It's going to be a long night," "What do you plan to do, Andy?" "Wait. Maybe by morning they'll have cooled down enough to talk sense to. I have some news for them." He outlined the gist of Weinberg's discovery. "But this is what we've been waiting for -- even praying for at odd moments," Timmins said, running his fingers through his thinning hair. "Good lord, Andy -- this is the best news you could have brought -- " "But nobody out there's listening tonight. Relax, Ben. So far we're holding our own. Maybe this will tip it our way." All through the night there were reports of fires, quickly quenched, roaming bands of slogan-shouting looters, clashes between vigilantes and demonstrators which petered out indecisively. The hours passed. Galt dozed. Pale light was filtering through the windows when he was awakened by a man who burst into the office, without the formality of knocking. "They've fired the library," he said. "A crowd of them got inside the kindergarten, too. Shall we try to hold it?" "Let it go," Timmins snapped. "We've got to concentrate on essential installations." He broke off. "Sorry, Andy. It's your decision, of course:" "I agree. What are they really after, Ben What's their prime target?" "What do you think?" Timmins snapped. "Admin House. If they get in here -- " near distance punctuated the remark. Objects rattled on the desk. Somewhere there was a sound of breaking glass. Galt whirled to the window. Smoke was billowing from a point near the main gate, which was twisted off its mountings. Men came streaming through the opening in a ragged spearhead. "Where are our, militiamen?" Timmins yelled and left the room at a run. Shouts sounded from the downstairs, accompanied by heavy thuddings. Galt arrived in the foyer to find a dozen volunteer defenders, all of them smokesmudged and bleeding from small cuts and abrasions, grouped behind the massively barred doors. "They're starting to get rough," one of the men called. "They've got guns -- a dozen of them anyway. God only knows where they got them. Nobody killed yet far as I know, but that explosion they set off -- " The pounding at the heavy doors ceased abruptly. Voices could be heard beyond the heavy panels, shouting over the rumble of crowd noises. "We're in a hopeless position," a man said. "We've done all we could -- these hoodlums mean business. I say let's get out while we can." "Dammit, you can't run away now -- " Timmins began. "Go ahead, Jacobs," Galt cut in, "Anybody who wants to leave now, make it fast, Thanlcs for your help," All but two of the volunteers departed hastily, some silently, some with apologies, A chant had started up outside the doors, "What the devil are they shouting?" Timmins said. "Give -- us -- Galt!" the chant came through clearly in a momentary lull in the background roar. "Give -- us -- Galt" "The damned murderous swine," Timmins cried. "Andy, you've got to get out. They want a scapegoat, somebody to blame and you're elected," Galt shook his head; he went up the stairs to the landing. From the narrow window there he could see the drama spread out before him: the ruined gate, the ragged crowd of rebels fanning out from it, forming a loose arc fifty feet from the steps; the packed mob beyond the walls, craning for a better look. "Like ghouls, watching a beheading," Timmins said beside him. "Don't the damn fools know if these anarchists get inside it's all over for Colmar?" "Don't blame them; they're just ordinary citizens caught in something outside their scope. They're waiting for leadership -- any leadership." Galt glanced at Timmins. "And if we can't give it to them, somebody else will." He "pointed to the tall man standing front and center, with a bandolier of cartridges slung over his shoulder, a heavy power rifle gripped in a brawny fist. "A malcontent named Brauer," Timmins said. "By God, if I had a gun -- " He looked at Galt, dropped his eyes to the pistol in Gault's belt. "Let me borrow that, Andy," he said in a low, intense voice. "I can drop him with one shot." Galt shook his head. "You know better than that, Ben." this -- I say it's justified." "I'd probably agree with you -- if is, we'd be giving them a martyr -- shot from ambush. I think I know which way the crowd would go then." He turned and IF went back down the stairs. "'Open it up," he said to the two men waiting beside the big doors. "Mr. Administrator, you can't surrender to that mob," one of the men blurted. "They'll skin you alive. That's all they want." "Who's surrendering? Get that door open." men withdrew the locking bars, swung the portals wide. A sound went up from the crowd as Galt stepped out on the portico; it faded quickly as the big man named Brauer stepped forward. He stood for a moment, fingering the gun in his hands; then he turned and called over his shoulder: "Let's go; the rats are throwing in their hand." He started forward, walking with a defiant swagger, all eyes on him. Those directly behind him followed; the crowd edged forward, sliding silently through the gate, spreading out. Brauer came on. When he was six feet away, Galt flipped back his jacket to expose the pistol thrust into his belt, dropped his hand to the butt. Brauer stopped dead. A number of expressions crossed his face; surprise, anger, determination. His eyes narrowed. The rifle in his hands started to come up. "Throw that gun down or I'll put a bullet between your eyes, Brauer," Galt said quietly. Brauer froze. He glanced at Galt's face, at his chin, his belt buckle. "You crazy, Galt? he asked "Get out of my way -- " "Five seconds," Galt said. "You want to get killed?" Brauer burst out. "Four," Galt said. "Three. Two -- " With an oath, Brauer threw down the gun. A murmur went up from the crowd. A man behind Brauer started forward. "Get back in line," Galt snapped. The man halted. "Drop the bandolier, Brauer," Galt ordered. Brauer complied. He looked up at Galt, his face slowly turning red. "Come inside," Galt said. "I want to talk to you." The big'man stood fast. "Move, I told you!" Galt snapped. Brauer attempted a cocky smile; it became a sickly grimace. He went up the steps. Galt followed him inside. When he glanced back from the door, the crowd was already melting away. "You can't get away with this," Brauer was saying. "We don't have to stand for this -- " "I think you will," Galt said. "We've got rights!" Brauer yelled. "The power belongs to the people!" "That's right," Galt said. "I agree you're under no obligation to support the government just because it's there." "Well, then -- " Brauer started. "Certainly, you have a right to revolt," Galt went on. "But that dosn't mean I'm under any obligation to let you get away with it."   Timmins said an hour later, after the militia had reported all quiet in the city, "is why you let him get so close before you stopped him." "Simple," Galt said. "I couldn't hit the wide side of a warehouse with a pistol unless the muzzle was touching it." He smiled. "Brauer made the same mistake in judgment Blum did -- they both let me get too close. And when we started talking -- I had the better argument. Brauer agreed he would have made a lousy administrator." He yawned. "Tomorrow we'll announce Weinberg's discovery -- and a new plan for Colmar's economy."  on. Whenever the future becomes the present -- as it must do constantly -- we are not prepared to cope with it. A hundred years ago there was no great problem. A man who had all his thoughts frozen at the # level was not going to be profoundly shocked by anything impinging on his daily life for the rest of the century. Oh, he saw an occasional automobile and heard that the Wrights had learned to build a machine that flew. But such things came into the world slowly and did not put too great demands on him. For him the future never really arrived; he lived in a sort of eternal present, where the verities were indeed fixed. Today, the future has been with us for a quarter of a century. The man who returned from World ( Continued from page #) War II was faced with radical changes. Television came into his home; while it entertained, it also presented a whole world to him, much of which stubbornly refused to accept his exact values. The atom bomb had been exploded and racial extinction, was now possible -- as well as injury to his children from fallout. Those dratted scientific ideas had become part of his mental environment -- and of his taxes. And today, all his fixed values are being shaken to tatters. The younger generation -- grown in a present that vanishes from them as they learn it, but a present thirty years from Mr. Establishment's world, or thirty years in his mental future -- all think and talk in ways that world finds nearly impossible to follow. In another twenty years the future may well have wrenched this younger generation even more severely. The changes from their # conditioning are already major. We now face such phenomena as pollution, for which nothing in their books can offer an answer. They generally are already falling back on a failure to adapt that takes the form of demanding their hopeless elders do something about it. And they are confronted with a world that is already grossly overpopulated for a technical age; that was supposed to be a problem for the year #, but it turned out it was for the year #! Man is a reasonably adaptive animal. But the demands for adaptation are no longer reasonable, as most people see them. With the accelerating rate of change a human being today (who should reevaluate everything he knows about living at least once a decade) is going to face the need to rethink all his values and solutions at least once a year. That requirement of annual change is too severe a demand for the average homo sapiens to face. Even now, the need for change has resulted in severe shock reaction that manifests itself in many of the social ills of our time. Toffler goes on to document his case and to examine what we must expect during the rest of this century. Ke considers the inability of our institutions to deal with the problems and tries to explore what must be done to let us meet the test of survival. It is an important and valuable book, well worth careful reading. Yet the one solution that seems to have worked to some extent so far is hardly covered, for rather obvious reasons. And that solution, it seems to me, may be the long-range reading of science fiction! At least, from my own observations, the steady readers of our literature seem to be far readier to cope with a changing future than most other people and I find very little real future shock among my friends in the field. Science fiction, after all, does not deal with the future (as Frederik Pohl has pointed out repeatedly). It deals with any and every future. Each major story in the field sets up a different future in many ways and looks for solutions to meet the conditions in that future. As readers, we spend our time playing a constant game of fairy chess, where the rules change from game to game and often within the game. The average man doesn't really believe there is a future -- just an eternal present through which he will drift to his end. But science fiction readers have often become more future-oriented than presentadjusted. (That has its troubles, too, but apparently less severe ones.) And since they deal in possible futures, rather than the seemingly probable one, they are quite accustomed to having to reorient themselves every time they sit down to look at the future. In a world of unfixed and changing values the man who has made a game of thinking outside the seeming values of his present is clearly the mam who will find any radical alteration far less shocking. Incidentally, that would seem to indicate that those who want science fiction to deal with present problems and situations are totally wrong; there aren't going to be any present problems and situations -- by the time tomorrow gets here, the future will have jumped ten tomorrows ahead and be in the past. It may be that the less science fiction concerns itself with the real world (as we know it), the more useful it will be. case -- one of the "must" books is Philip Jose Farmer's To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Putnam's Sons, #). This deals with a future which almost certainly isn't going to happen, but one in which a lot of the rigid values are tossed aside for a logic inherent in the story, yet just out of the reader's full comprehension. It sounds wild, and it is; but it's an excellent exercise in building mental flexibility, as well as a pleasure to read. This is the first of a series which will deal with the "Riverworld." Much of this book was run in the form of novelettes in "previously, but it is now reshaped into a novel, and well worth reading in its entirety. Riverworld is apparently some kind of artificial planet designed to accommodate an Ouriborus river that winds back and forth through multiple valleys, to meet itself and resume its journey. And to this world, all the human beings who have ever died -- from the first Eanthropus to the men who died when the race was exterminated -- are returned to life. They are partly clumped by similarity of era and area, but about # are randomized, so that dawnmen and even aliens may be mixed with our current types. They don't know how or why all this has happened. It fits no established religious pattern. And since they are dumped onto this world with no artifacts normal to them, it fits directly almost no social pattern. They are given a source of food -- and drugs for those who want -- so that this is a sort of welfare world; but beyond that minimum they have almost nothing. In addition they find that death IF has not only been defeated, but has been repealed. Oh, a man can be killed, with all the suffering of normal death. On this world, where everything seems to be returning to tribal moralities, there is a lot of the ancient bloody war and killing from the history of man. But shortly after a man dies, he appears again somewhere along the river. He may die a hundred times or more and still go on. It's a wild and lovely idea, filled with impossibilities that only Farmer would have the courage to try to write. Any other writer I know, if he were clever enough to think of the basic idea, would have abandoned it as too big and too shapeless to turn into a novel. But for Farmer it works. In fact, it worked long ago when he was just beginning as a writer. This was a story that he must have written around #. It was then a single, huge novel. He offered it in a prize contest one of the fanpublishing groups was running and it won. Then, for complicated reasons, it was never published nor did Farmer collect the prize to which he was entitled. But like the characters in his novel, the story was killed only to appear again in another situation. It was apparently too long for serialization. But eventually Farmer reworked it into a series of novelettes, so that part of it came out in magazine form, considerably altered from the original. How much alteration that entailed, I do not know. I was once given the original form to deliver to the office in New York. So, for a brief period, I saw the early form of the novel; but there wasn't time enough even to skim it. That is something I greatly regret. Had I known that the manuscript was available. I'd have dropped everything to read it, but the first version had to pass through my hands unread, damn the luck. I gather that the series now beginning to appear from Putnam's is a further reworking. This volume is basically the odyssey of Richard Burton after his revival on Riverworld. In that sense it forms a complete story, though much of the deeper thread behind it all remains uncovered. I dislike being left up in the air, but at least history is being presented fairly. Putnam has announced it as the first of the group, and it reaches a resolution of Burton's development, without introducing any artificial false ending or leaving us on a cliffhanger. And maybe I'm just so glad to see it appearing that I'm kinder to this example of split-up publishing than I might otherwise be. The riddle of how and why is a constant tantalizer in the book. Burton has reason -- and apparently for some reason, at that -- to know that there are sentient beings behind it all. They have deliberately created Riverworld and managed to revive everyone who lived. He cannot know why they are doing all this. He knows also that they have some kind of spies among the revived humans. One of them apparently is a traitor to the others, which is why Burton was allowed to learn more of the behind-the-scenes activity than the others. But beyond trying to reach the head (or foot, since they are the same) of the river where the planners seem to have their secret headquarters, he can do nothing but attempt in his own logical way to avoid their discovering him. It's a complicated setup. Until the books are filially all published I can't be sure how well the ramifications are worked out. But the promise behind the premise is wonderful. And even if the end should turn out not quite to justify the means, the means are good enough for me to settle for them. There is a weakness in the book, of course, as there is to almost any work that involves so difficult a concept. The principal one seems to me to be the use of known characters. We have Richard Burton, who was truly a fantastic human being in real life; he was the translator of the Arabian Nights and a great adventurer. We also have Hermann Goering and the woman for whom Alice in Wonderland was written. She comes through very well, but the historicity of the others bothers me in reading their fictional life here. Button, as fiction, makes a fine hero for the book; but I find him overshadowed by references to what seems to me a larger reality. Goering has all his weaknesses -- but again, the strengths and oddly distorted but real Junker code of the historical figure do not quite fit this picture. Farmer's research is sound -- but the real figures just don't seem capable of being fitted well into this box. The wholly imaginary ones always seem to come off better. T he Daleth Effect, by Harry Harrison (Berkley, #) is a totally different type of book. Here the means are standard -- the end seems to be everything. The author uses a method of getting space travel without the vast sums possible only to a major nation to set up his theme: what man will do with his ability. To me, this is a curious book; it kept irritating me because it recalled another I had read some time previously. This was a story by Arthur Sellings about a whacky professor who found a means to get cheap space flight and then had to run from pillar to post to convince the world -- then to esIF cape the world and to end up giving Israel the first successful use of his discovery. Harrison's book begins as if he'd also read the Sellings story and then decided to be as severely logical and honest about the real consequences as possibhi. I'm not suggesting that Harrison copied anything; far from it. He has simply taken a similar basic idea and then gone beyond it, very well indeed. In this book the inventor developed a vaguely similar effect to cheapen space flight in Israel, but felt that country too much involved in its own political struggle, to make proper use of his discovery. He takes it to Denmark -- only to find that politics and the struggle for power follow wherever power may lodge. This is a story of the intrigue behind a major discovery, as well as the story of what adventures and developments may come from a basic discovery. And in following through, Harrison's logic is severe and honest. It isn't always a pleasant book. The adventure part of it lives up to all of Harrison's proven ability to do a fine story of this kind. But there is little of the release from tension in the end, and almost none of the humor that he sometimes handles so well. This isn't that kind of a story. This definitely isn't "escape" fiction, unless you want to escape into the world that is too much with us. But it does give us another view of our time and place and a further example of what future shock really can accomplish. It's also a good book -- excellent in its own terms, which is all we can ask. T he Leaves of Time, by Neal Barrett, Jr. (Lancer, #) is unfortunately far less than it should be in terms of the author's previously demonstrated ability. The work shows us another and interesting type of future, but then seems to go into some kind of shock within itself and turn its back on the reality it has begun to explore. Basically, a man from a world of possibilities somewhat like those on our own is thrown into another, differently oriented world. On his world, aliens who can control men and simulate real humans have virtually taken over the planet; his jump from world to world is caused by a last-ditch battle -- and one alien is thrown across with him. His problem is that the alien immediately begins trying to take over the new world. (Aliens can fission, thus one can populate a planet in time.) He finds he likes the new world; he feels responsible and sets out to warn the new world and try to save it. The plot so far is all right; but unfortunately the really good part of this novel is the promise at the beginning. Here we meet our first inhabitant in the form of a girl who can know at once when a man is telling the truth. The probabilityworld involved has developed a philosophy that gives the students quite remarkable powers, and we're led to expect that the whole world will react differently to the alien, the Gorgon. Those bits of what this world and its people might be like are fascinating. It's a world I'd like to know more about. Then nothing really comes of it. We see even more petty political folderol here than on a world without the philosophy. We see people who can know truth "'from falsehood at once being as silly as anyone else. We see the great leader of the philosophy being duped like anyone else. In fact, we're told the world is different from ours -- but we're shown quite the reverse, while the story degenerates into a who-is-the-alien thing, to which the answer is patently obvious -- so patently that we can only assume the great students of the philosophy are no better than the worst among us. It's a pity, because there was a kernel here that showed great promise. It's still not a bad book, but unfortunately it isn't the good one it could be. And it shows many appalling examples of the bad editing always totally inexcusable but which I've seen too often. In the top paragraph of page #, for instance, we're told that "... she intended the gift for he and Tai... with both he and Tai expected for dinner. Yes, Virginia, English does have an accusative case for its pronouns! After a preposition, the object of that preposition always takes the accusative, even when coupled with a noun. If the writer wrote it wrong, any competent editor would change it. After all, there is such a thing as reader shock, too. And I'm shocked when I find such gaucheries in the basic use of the one tool writers and editors must use well -- the English language. Maybe our academic minds should stop worrying about the purpose of fiction and the evils of "'escape literature"; they might better spend it trying to instil elementary respect for the language, since that does have a real and evident purpose. It's also one area where the future won't bring too many Jarring new discoveries to shock them -- unless they let it degenerate too rapidly. Or has the language changed in a sudden new arrival of the future and am I unable to adapt to it quickly enough? Maybe I'm in future shovi , too, despite my reading of science fiction. Enough, I've got to consult Alvin Toffler again.# IF Top-Highf sdmncm fiction and fantasy from    Eight mind-bending tales conceived and executed by the richest imaginations in science fiction: Arthur C. Clarke, Robert Silverberg, Cordwainer Smith, Fritz Leiber, Poul Anderson, John Campbell, Jr. and Jack Vance. A#S #c Ten dazzling stories that explore the complex relation between modern man and his machines. The authors include Lester del Rey, Robert Silverberg, Fritz Leiber, James Blish, Brian Aldiss and other top-notch names. A#N #C A pair of scientists challenge the time barrier and fall into a horrible, mind-twisting trap. 'Rene Barfavel has feeling for the fantastic -- knows how to build a suspenseful story.'" Enter a terrifying world of tomorrow where perversity is encouraged and insanity is enforced -- a world whose beginnings are even now stirring! A#S #c Availablo wherever books ere sold or write: # Eoft # SfTMt, Now York, N.Y. #I # been an accident -- the ship would never have abandoned him intentionally. But knowing this was no way out of his predicament. By now the Star Wind would be many not anticipate any rescue from that direction. He was lucky to be alive. The ship had accelerated suddenly -- and without any prior warning or due regard for his safety -- and the spatial concussion had thrown him an enormous distance away from the rear Doppler turrets that had been the object of his routine inspection. He had tumbled through space for hundreds of miles before the miniature computer inside his cumbersome suit had managed to stabilize him in a safe orbit around the beautiful green world that turned underneath him, and when he recovered consciousness he felt sick and confused. His initial reaction was one of intense fear and a horror of what might become of him; but eventually his rigid training and functional discipline reasserted themselves and he found that he could contemplate the future with a cooler eye. He was surprised that his suit had survived the catastrophe. He fervently thanked the engineers who had designed and manufactured the monstrous and sometimes awkward exoskeleton and began to check out its functions. The small computer bank set immediately in front of his chest was operating smoothly enough -- otherwise he would still be tumbling head over heels through space instead of drifting in a stable orbit around the bright young world below. He cautiously moved his arms and legs and felt the enormous limbs of the suit respond and duplicate his movements; there were no signs of strain or delay in the mechanical operations of the suit. A few judicious bursts from the maneuvering jets convinced him that they, too, were functioning smoothly. He eased off the manual controls and allowed the computer to edge him back into orbit. He listened to it cluck contentedly to itself and considered his predicament. He disconnected most of the neural sensors from his body and tried to relax. There was ample room inside the suit for him to feel unencumbered; he could flex his limbs and move the upper half of his body quite freely within the restraining webs that cushioned his fragile body from external shocks and minor impacts. He had not yet begun to panic, but for some reason he could not pin down he felt cold. He shivered and felt afraid. There was no logical reason why he should feel such a physical chill: the insulation was working perfectly and his suit seemed to be in excellent shape. So far so good. Perhaps it was the unaccustomed isolation that brought about this sudden flutter of his pale flesh. He had never before felt so much alone, so unspeakably deserted. Gone was the warmth"and companionship of his unit. Now all he had for a friend was the forever wise and quietly clucking computer in his suit. "'All right, then, little lady," he sighed. "'Let's see if you can get me out of this mess -- " H e had enough air to last him for seven and a half hours, for several circuits of the world below. At the end of that time he would suffer a terrifying death; his suit would become a lonely coffin, orbiting until such time as it swung so low that the atmosphere claimed it and transformed it into fiery incandescence. Mattero's suit was only a standard maintainance unit, a smaller version of the enormous locomotive machines that could carry a man across hostile alien landscapes at considerable speed and protect him from atmospheres that could soon corrupt his pallid human flesh; it had very little to offer in the way of sophisticated survival gear. It had never been meant to move very far away from the immediate vicinity of the ship. A less intelligent spaceman would have remained in orbit until his small reserve of air gave out, hoping with his last breath that the Star Wind would arrive back in time to save him; but Mattaro knew that no ship could ever contemplate the expenditure of time and energy that would be required if it were to turn around and come back to locate a solitary, mislaid crewman. Mattaro belonged to Maintainance -- he was a cog among cogs -- and while no one could ever openly be considered expendable, the loss of one small unit could be readily absorbed. Whatever urgent business had spurred the Star Wind hastily to complete its survey of the colonial world below and move off without first making sure that her hull was clear of maintainance units, would also guarantee that the ship could hardly turn back and come looking for him, always assuming that his disappearance had been registered with the Master Control. IF Equally, a less intelligent spaceman might have lacked sufficient courage to embark upon the desperate gamble which Mattarp, with his computer's ready agreement, had decided to commit himself. Mattaro was logical enough to realize that his only chance lay in trying to reach the world below. The computer had decided that, with a good measure of luck, he might make a safe landing on one of the wide continents that turned underneath his monstrous unmoving feet. Enough power was left in his suit batteries to permit a reasonably fast descent -- no point in endangering his life any further by taking it leisurely and using up more of his vital oxygen than was necessary. Once he was safely down he would need every ounce of reserve air that he could manage so that he might reach some habitation before it finally gave out. The computer would brake his fall at the very last minute. It would send a powerful surge of energy from the batteries into the gray coils wrapped around his exowaist and quickly nullify the planet's attraction. Mattaro knew that this entailed great risk, but he believed that with judicious conversation of his available power he just might make a safe landing and the computer endorsed his decision. So, if the suit nursed him down and saved most of its remaining energy for a single, powerful blast of repulsion at the very end of his fall -- he just might come out of this alive. The alternative was unthinkable. Better a quick, fiery death than a slow orbit into insanity. At least this way he could retain some semblence of dignity, up to and including the very end he failed to accomplish the desired descent. He had no idea how he would make out once he was on the ground. He knew that this world was inhabited, that the Star Wind had been locked in orbit for several days while its scientists studied the visible results of a seeding program which his people had instigated many centuries earlier; but beyond this he knew nothing. Mattaro was a specialist conversant with every facet of his trade -- and with very little else. Such was the nature of his time and his people. What he knew of the people who had colonized the fresh young world below had only been ascertained from ship's gossip. He knew that they existed on a relatively primitive scale: their society' was agrarian and widely scattered and there had been, so far, no outside interference in their affairs. And this was the sum of his knowledge. But he felt confident that the biological sensors in his. suit would enable the computer to set him down reasonably close to some sort of habitation -- as to how he would make out afterward he had no idea. He would have to play it by ear. The important thing was first to get down. Some day, years from now, a ship might pass close by this world and, if luck would have it, they would have been made aware of his disappearence and might even dispatch a small skiff to see if they could find some trace of him. Some day. That could be ages from now. And in the meantime he had to survive. It was with a growing sense of urgency that he instructed the computer to begin the descent. H e fell for what seemed like ages but in actuality amounted to a few short hours. The world underneath his enormous articulated legs became clearer. He entered the upper limits of the atmosphere and the dark night of space changed color abruptly. The nearby sun kindled the air around him until it glowed with a tantalizing blueness he found quite strange. He flexed his limbs inside the suit and felt the exoskeleton respond. He was confident that all would be well. The air inside the suit became hot. 'Take it easy," he warned. "I can't take too much of this." The suit slowed slightly. Mattaro began to sweat. It was a process alien to his conditioning and it alarmed him to realize that his body cells were recalling such an archaic function. The grav coils continued to throw out a small measure of power and he grew alarmed when he saw how much this token resistance was draining his batteries. He concluded -- and the computer quickly verified -- that he hadn't escaped the concussion of the Star Winds departure as, well as he had imagined: a small but continuous energy drain was going somewhere that might well prove disastrous. Oh, my Mother, why hast thou forsaken me? His normally placid pulse rate quickened. He began to panic. An ocean yawned underneath him. "Not there!" he screarned. "Find some habitation -- quickly!" The computer struggled to oblige but already the energy drain had reached dangerous proportions. He was three miles up and falling rapidly, the computer jealously withholding as much power as it could safely risk for the last few seconds of the terrifying descent. It was so hot inside the suit he could hardly breathe. Now he was inland and falling at a steep angle toward a densely populated forest. The world below looked green, luxuriant and IF very frightening. There were no signs of human habitation. Would he ever make it alive? Two miles. One. Falling faster all the time, the wind tearing at his suit like a howling banshee. Mother, help me! Vm going to die. I dont want to die... out here... like this! Where were the shining cities his people had spun between the stars, the magic wonderlands he had known as a child? Where was the beauty of all the things he had ever known and loved? Gone. There was only this crawling world at his feet with some offer of hope; this clumsy ball of mud and water lumbering around a parent sun tike some bemused and indolent child; this virgin world fresh from the furnaces of space which man, in his curiosity, had sown with his own seed and stood back in the shadows of the centuries to observe. For the first time in all his long and precisely ordered life Mattaro became conscious of what living really meant to him. For a moment his eyes widened with something close to horror, like the eyes of one who has seen a vision and is incapable of acting upon what he has seen; then his mind snapped cruelly back to the present. He was now descending vertically and at a frightful rate toward a small clearing in the forest. The computer waited until his feet were only a few hundred feet away from the tops of the trees before it fed the full remaining power into the grav coils. The suit shuddered and rocked like a thing gone mad as it fought to decelerate and repulse the gigantic mass of the world below. The suddea application of energy sent the monstrous suit dancing and jiggling across the sky; it shook Mattaro's body so much that, in spite of the protective webbing that held his body in thrall, he thought it might crack open like an eggshell and spill his mortal insides all over the controls. The computer struggled to stabilize these wild gyrations and bring the suit safely down to the surface of the planet. He almost made it. The repulsion field had evened itself out and he had begun to drop towards the clearing again. He could see the topmost branches of the tallest trees moving past his faceplate and he began to relax. His nightmare was over. And he had even begun to smile -- a little hysterically -- when the power finally gave out. He fell like Icarus. HE fishing had been bad all  day, so Jarvis had withdrawn from this commitment and had sprawled out beside the stream, his arms behind his head, and had contented himself with a little doze and a modicum of thought. He had wedged his rod into a convenient tree stump by the water's edge and left the line drifting casually downstream; if a fish proved foolish enough to go for his lure a small bell attached to the float would summon him from sleep. But the sun was warm and encouraged idleness and he had only caught two miserably small fish all morning. A small pouch of wine lay beside him, some sliced rolls and some sausage in a wooden basket, and that was what fishing was really all about. He had eaten rribst of the food and drunk a goodly measure of the wine when he was roused from his slumber by something he could not understand. Then he saw the dark speck high in the clear sky and heard the highpitched, keening cry that seemed to accompany its fall. It grew from a dot the size of a bird into something gigantic and terrifying and out of place andhis mind -- a little dulled by the amount of warm wine he had quaffed -- was slow to react. Jarvis was no longer young. The sun had tanned his wrinkled skin a deep shade of brown and his brow was heavy with the burden of years. He had lost count of the seasons he had walked through and his mind, like his limbs, had lost a good deal of vigor. But he had never before seen an object like this falling out of the heavens -- and its probable point of impact would seem to be only a short distance away on the other side of the stream. He sat up, startled, and scrambled to his feet as the object grew large in the sky and fell toward the ground at an incredible pace. His fishing was forgotten while he stood, transfixed and spellbound. When the thing was almost at the point of crashing into the upper levels of the forest it shuddered suddenly and came to a halt in mid-air. Next it performed an insane jig across the sky, dancing about over the top of the trees like something gone mad. Jarvis took a step backward and nearly lost his balance. He could see it clearly now -- and he did not like what he saw. Its general shape was that of a man and it. flung its limbs about in a grotesque parody of a man possessed. It stilled. Jarvis watched, openmouthed, as it glided across the tree tops -- toward him. He backed away. The creature looked like something fetched from a nightmare conjured up by the foulest home brew imaginable. He prepared his skinny legs to run and just as he was about to turn and thrust them into frantic motion -- the thing fell. IF It crashed down through the forest as though it weighed several tons. He could hear it tearing a pathway through the tightly packed branches: a terrible screeching sound such as a moHySter might make, fighting for its life. The sound of the impact was thunderous and the ground shook as the creature tumbled to it, unseen. A flock of birds rose screaming from the scene of the impact. For a while they circled wildly around the great rent in the trees, calling to each other in agitation, then they flew off and dispersed. A lazy column of dust began to creep up into the sky where the creature had fallen. more to happen. But time went by and only the familiar warm silence of the woods reestablished itself. He fidgeted. He rubbed his eyes and wondered what it was he had really seen and what he should do about it. Perhaps he had drunk too much and scrambled awake with. the vestiges of a bad dream still clinging to his thoughts. But the sounds of the screaming birds still echoed in his memory, and he was not a man to imagine such elaborate monsters. I will go and discover what manner of creature it is that falls from the sky and makes such an awesome noise... Having made his decision, he packed up his fishing rod and proceeded to wade across the shallow section of the stream. He reached the other side, dried his feet on a deep patch of grass, pulled on his sandals and strode into the forest to locate the fallen object. His search took him some distance into the trees -- somewhat further than he had expected -- where the thick trunks pressed close together and the ground was always shrouded indeep shadow. The undergrowth was sparse at this time of the year and he found no difficulty in making progress -- yet he moved cautiously, having no idea what to expect. It took him some time to locate the object, mainly because it became difficult for him to hold to his original line of sight now that he was deep into the forest. But the deep, jagged cleft that the thing had carved down through the trees was a beacon to his questing eyes: through this tortured passageway the sunlight found ready access and Jarvis quickened his pace when he was near enough for the light to seem a ragged pillar, beckoning. Approaching the point of impact he slowed down and came to a halt. His listened, but could hear no sound. He summoned his courage and moved forward, wondering what he might find. The creature had fallen on its side and lay there staring at him like a crippled metal ogre. Its great legs were twisted underneath its massive trunk and its head was swung round at an incongruous angle. Instead of a face only a single polished disc stared back at him. Jarvis drew in his breath. The creature was at least three times bigger than a man and its body was covered with all manner of shiny protuberences, some of which had broken or been sheared off by its dreadful fall. He carefully made a wide circuit around the creature before he became emboldened enough to move closer and examine the lifeless humanoid in greater detail. He might be an old man but he was no superstitious fool. He recognized this creature as a machine, some sort of mechanical contrivance, the meaning of which was as yet lost to him. But he was determined to discover more. Why, here were massive arms of steel that could have crushed him like a cockroach. And these legs -- what mighty engines drove them across the face of the earth? The creature still did not move. The fall had either killed it or knocked it senseless for a while. But from where had it fallen? And what was it doing here? Jarvis moved closer. He shook his head in amazement as he noted the immense girth of the creature and followed the line of one mighty shoulder until his eyes fastened upon the gigantic metal head. It was several times larger than a man's and in the center was the bright circle that had first attracted his attention. The creature was lying on its side, its "face" pointing towards him. It took but a short step for him to be able to lean forward and peer down into that enigmatic pool of light. He looked past the grimy surface of the faceplate and at the pale white face on the other side. The creature's eyes were closed and its mouth was open; a faint dribble of blood welled from its mouth and trickled down its chin. Its skin had the same pale, translucent quality as the belly of a fish. Jarvis recoiled in surprise and hastily crossed himself. He knew beyond doubt that he had looked down upon one of the space people. His legs began to shake. Without wasting another moment he backed away from the fallen spaceman and turned around and ran as fast as he could back to the village. sciousness and thought,  m alive! And felt the great waves of pain begin to eat away at his mind. He winced, closed his eyes and wondered how much of him had survived. He ached all over but none of his limbs felt broken: the IF webbing had held. His left leg was bent at a painful angle but he could, with very little effort, withdraw it from the exoskeleton and give it some ease. The rest of his body felt numb and bruised. His head ached abominably. He tasted blood in his mouth and ran his tongue quickly around inside. No broken teeth; just some torn sections of his cheek where he must have gripped them in agony during the final seconds of his fall. Nothing to worry about. He was alive! Happily, he began to explore the condition of his suit. He could get no sense out of the computer; it was sullen and silent. This caused him some concern. If the computer turned out to have been badly damaged he was as good as trapped. Only the computer could activate the suit and get it moving -- or open the access gate in the back of the suit. And if his power reserves were negative... Had he come so far to find himself in a situation Just as hopeless as the one he had fled? He tried to calculate how much air he had left. But with no idea how long he had been unconscious this was an impossible task. And the computer couldn't help him. He knew some sort of settlement was nearby, otherwise the computer wouldn't have chosen to set him down here. But how could he be sure that anyone had witnessed his hasty descent -- and what would they make of it if they had? His mind -- already accustomed to dealing with an impossible situation and dulled by the impact of his fall -- tried to devise some worthwhile plan of action. He waited until a full measure of feeling had returned to his limbs, then flexed them experimentally. He thought that he could detect a faint murmur of activity inside the computer casing and this made him hopeful. He tried again to set the suit moving; he moved his legs about inside the exoskeleton but only found resistance. The suit refused to be budged. After a while he gave up and considered the alternative. "Open the access hatch," he directed. No acknowledgment was forthcoming from the silent computer. The vital panel directly behind Mattaro didn't budge an inch. Sweating, he repeated the command. "Open the access hatch." For just a fraction of a second something stirred inside the damaged brain of the computer. Perhaps some last measure of residual energy prodded the machine into a simple gesture of assistance and, after this miserable erg of power had been dissipated, it slumped back into immobility. ' Behind Mattaro the access hatch had begun to move. It had swung open a fraction -- and stayed so. The bitter alien air creeping into his suit confirmed the fact. Mattaro swore. He repeated the command over and over again and, when this proved ineffective, withdrew his arms from the exoskeleton and beat upon the weighty access hatch with what strength he could exert from his awkward reach. But it would not be moved any further. He could still hear a threshold whirr of activity inside the computer, but he wasn't sure that the sound was genuine -- it could have been a product of his own wishful thinking. He felt light-headed and slumped back into the webbing. Strange, but he couldn't recall feeling like this before. Perhaps it was the fall -- and the air. He could feel it stinging the inside of his nostrils and coursing down into his lungs. Of course -- that would explain his peculiar light-headedness. It was the foul, unfiltered air of this damned planet that was making him feel so strange. But it was the only air he could depend on and it was better than none. He kept hoping that the computer might eventually reorganize itself and get him out of this mess, in the meantime he was alive and reasonably well off. The next misfortune he would have to face would be hunger -- and to alleviate that he would have to find some way of getting out of his suit. "'Open the access hatch," he mumbled. "Open the access hatch -- " But the hatch remained stubbornly at its fixed position. Through the dust-shrouded faceplate he could make out the wide trunks of the trees and, in the distance, some patched were the sunlight played on some branches in a clearing. The inside of the suit had cooled and that was something he could be thankful for. He could have come down in the tropics of the planet and might have had to endure a slow roasting before nightfall -- or he could just as easily have been dumped into the sea if the power had given out earlier. There were plenty of alternatives, all right. But here he was and, in one way or another, he was still alive. In one vay or another... He kept talking to the computer, trying to cajole it back into some useful activity. He still wasn't convinced that his cards had run out and he was determined to shake some life back into the stubborn little machine. It was some time before he noticed the dark faces peering down through his faceplate. A t first the townspeople thought that Jarvis had been IF drinking too much, or had been taken by the sun; but when they saw that he was indeed sober and that it had been a vision and not the heat of the sun that had dazzled his mind, then some of his excitement began to carry over to them. Nobody had ever seen one of the space people -- at least not for generations. The relatively short recorded history of their world was filled with the memory and mythology of the creatures who watched over them, but no one living had actually seen one of them at first hand, as Jarvis insisted he had. '"It's out there, in the forest just beyond the stream," he told them. "It fell down out of the sky and -- " "And there was a man inside, you say?" somebody asked. "No. I say there was a spaceman inside. He was all pale -- kind of like a grub inside a shell." They hastily crossed themselves and, forming a citizen's committee, herded Jarvis off to meet the town council. These seven men were older and wiser than anyone else in the village and it fell to them to make all the important decisions. Jarvis faced the mayor unflinchingly and repeated his story in detail. The council listened attentively, prepared to be skeptical. "Could you describe this machine?", the mayor asked. He was old and arthritic and often querulous, but his fancy had been captured by this loafer's confession. "In detail, if you can." "Well, it was shaped like a man, only much bigger." Jarvis made an awkward diagram with his hands, a gesture that was meant to imply gigantic dimensions. "It had two arms and two legs and a monstrous head that -- " The mayor swung around in his chair and conferred with his councilmen. An air of portentous gravity descended upon the darkpaneled room; Jarvis waited nervously for a decision. From the expressions of grave concern he could detect on the faces of the council, it seemed that they were prepared to accept his story at face value. "Wait outside, please, Jarvis," the mayor requested. "We will join you in a moment and then you will take us to your discovery, so that we may all see this creature at close range." Jarvis bowed respectfully and went back outside to where a great number of townspeople had already assembled around the humble civic center. Mayor Dunstable led his councilmen deep into the ancient cellars of the town hall. They paused outside a stout wooden door, crossed themselves three times, then held their positions while the mayor rose and unlatched the heavy wooden bar of the door and slipped softly inside. Once he had disappeared and the door had been discreetly closed behind him, the councilmen sat cross-legged and assumed a posture of silent meditation. It was dark inside the Shrine. The only light came from a solitary flame set in an ornate silver chalice upon the altar. The mayor kneeled just inside the threshold and offered up a few precious moments of his lifetime in respectful meditation. The appropriate ritual completed, he rose and walked boldly towards the altar. A half a dozen steps closed the distance. The Shrine was small and had never been intended to accommodate more than one man, and he the supreme arbiter of the township. Dunstable ascended the three short steps leading up to the altar and reached out for the deep glass case that rested immediately in front of the chalice. Underneath the dusty lid the faded face of the Handbook was kept securely locked away from prying eyes. Dunstable ran his arthritic fingers along one side of the case until the personality-keyed lock snapped open the glass lid. He sighed, whispered some appropriate words of thanks and raised the lid. The Handbook was exposed and his hands shook as he reached for it. He handled the ancient volume with reverence. In all his long period of office he had only had occasion to consult the holy tome thrice before. The book held all his people's past and all their future -- but its wisdom had to be used sparingly and only when all other knowledge failed or it would turn to poison. Its random and unrestricted use on other planets -- including the place of human origins -- had destroyed men's minds and turned them against one another. B reathing heavily, Dunstable consulted the index, turning the heavy textured pages of the Handbook with loving care. It was so quiet in the Shrine that the sound of his own excited breathing seemed monstrously loud and out of all proportion. He studied the relevant passages of the text for some time, reading slowly in order to impress each vital piece of information upon his no longer agile memory. Sometimes he nodded sagaciously to himself or smiled at some particularly enlightening snippet of information -- on other occasions his eyes widened momentarily in shock and surprise. The Handbook held many dazzling secrets that were not destined for the simple minds of this world. When he had satisfied his curiosity he reverently closed the IF book and relocked the glass lid. He bowed and crossed himself three times to give himself time to erase irrelevancies from his mind, whispered a short word of prayer for the fallen spaceman and then went outside to rejoin his councilmen. He summoned them from their meditations briskly: "'Very well, gentlemen, now we may proceed." Jarvis led the way. He took them by way of the river road, the councilmen breathing heavily from the unaccustomed exertion. A small army of inquisitive townspeople followed at a respectful distance. News of Jarvis' discovery had traveled fast. The machine had not moved from where Jarvis had found it. It lay at the bottom of the ragged shaft in the trees and faced them with its lifeless eye. The mayor drew in his breath sharply. He murmured the appropriate words prescribed by the Handbook and crossed himself three times. His councilmen stood silent and watchful. Behind them, clustered in small groups among the trees, the hundred or more curious onlookers kept a cautious distance and did not need to be dissuaded from coming any closer. The spaceman made no response to the mayor's greeting. "You see," Jarvis said, "it doesn't move. Perhaps it can't move." The mayor nodded. "Very likely." He moved closer and walked a careful circuit around the massive creature, drawing upon his recent reserves of memory of the Handbook to help him identify the exact nature of the fallen object. "It  a spaceman, isn't it?" Jarvis asked. Dunstable waited until he had completed his study of the object before he commented. He looked up through the great, broken shaft in the forest towards the sunlit sky. "It is, Jarvis," he agreed There was no point in denying what was self-evident. He had stepped close and looked through the dusty faceplate and had seen the pale white face that Jarvis had spoken of. The eyes had been momentarily closed, but the identity of the creature had been unmistakable. By now the other councilmen had crowded close. "My friends," Dunstable informed them, "Jarvis had indeed discovered one of the space people. How he came here we do not know. He has fallen from the sky and it has been our privilege to find him. Let us pray -- " With one accord all bowed their heads while the mayor intoned words from the Handbook whose meaning he himself did not fully understand, though they should have evoked a response from the object on the ground. But the spaceman did not move and Dunstable began to wonder if the visitor from the skies were alive or if the terrible fall had killed him. His prayer completed, the mayor lifted his head with a slight suggestion of impatience. Around him the woods were alive with peering, frightened faces. He motioned them to come closer so that they might hear what he had to say, ""My good friends, this is indeed a wondrous day for us. This -- this machine you see here is what is known as a 'space suit.' It is meant to protect the space people from all sorts of dangers -- remember, their empire is vast and beyond our comprehension; it accommodates many thousands of worlds like ours and many more where environments are hostile and dangerous. They must protect themselves from inhospitable climates and even airlessness -- and they have evolved these miraculous uniforms in order to move without difficulty from world to world." While he spoke he moved closer to the fallen spaceman and indicated certain aspects of the massive space armor. "As you see, this suit is many times larger than the man inside, yet these great metal limbs respond effortlessly to his movements and endow him with the ability to perform prodigious feats that would otherwise be beyond his capabilities. In a sense the machine is alive and ordinarily should respond to -- " "But how did he get here?" someone interrupted. It was a cry from among the many faces pressing closer through the trees. Dunstable hesitated. "We can't be sure. Perhaps he was working somewhere in the sky." He gestured overhead. "And he fell from thereV' Another incredulous voice. Dunstable frowned. Just how much information might he safely -- and with good intentions -- divulge? The Handbook left much to his judgment. He knew from it that mighty ships moved between distant worlds and that some day -- in an unimaginaible distant future -- the descendants of his people would evolve sufficiently in knowledge to lay claim to a similar heritage. It seemed quite likely that one of these wondrous sky chariots might have been passing nearby when the spaceman fell. Dunstable had used the prescribed words to arouse the visitor, but perhaps there was a limit to what he could tell his people. The words, of course, hadn't worked. "He fell -- and that is all we know," he replied. "But is he alive?" another asked. The mayor raised both hands in a gesture for silence. "That we IF must now ascertain' He nodded towards Jarvis. "Perhaps you found him for a reason. He may respond to you. Take a closer look, will you?" Jarvis grinned. He basked in his new importance. He strode confidently to the machine and leaned over so that he was peering closely into the faceplate. A few of the councilmen followed to looked cautiously over his shoulder. It was some time before Jarvis realized that the creature's eyes were open and that he was staring out at them -- and not quite seeing them. Something unseen seemed to have passed between them. Jarvis jerked back in surprise. The councilmen quickly got out of the way. They looked disconcerted. "He is awake," Jarvis reported. "But he does not seem to see us." The mayor stepped forward and corroborated Jarvis' observation. And as he looked down and deeply into the pale, blank eyes of the spaceman he felt an unpleasant chill shake his body. He remained hunched forward and staring for some time, then stood aside and motioned his fellow Councilmen to step forward so that they might each, in turn, look with reverence upon the unfortunate creature. If the spaceman was conscious of this solemn parade of faces in front of him then he made no move to acknowledge what he saw. We must work quickly, Dunstable realized, or it may be too late to help him... He summoned one of the nearby villagers -- an adventurous lad of early years -- and sent him back to the village for the town physician and blacksmith. The blacksmith was to bring his strongest and most reliable tools and the physician to arrange for a pallet to be brought, so that the spaceman might be gently transported to a place of seclusion and rest -- if he could be rescued from the gigantic spacesuit that could soon become a coffin. While he waited anxiously he supervised the curious villagers into a long, slow-moving column that filed cautiously past the gigantic metal head and looked furtively in through the dusty faceplate at the pale, unsmiling face of the spaceman. a vague sort of half-life -- of the strange faces peering down at him. They were like dreadful figures in a dream; the faces all screwed up with time, skins scorched a dark, unpleasant color by the naked radiation of their sun -- he could not find it in him to accept them as human beings. Mother, my mind is on fire... His body was covered by a dense film of sweat. Drops of it had formed above his eyes and splashed down, making it difficult for him to see. His breathing was shallow and irregular; his mouth was dry and his limbs burned with some strange internal fusion he could not understand. Mother, am  dying? His time was running out -- had run out. He was breathing alien air -- deadly, unfiltered -- and it was having a terrifying effect upon his sterile metabolism. A hundred unseen bacteria had already invaded his bloodstream and each minute added more. In no time at all he would be reduced to a sick and festering hospital case -- unless they, those people outside whom he loathed, somehow got him out of here anchplaced him in some sort of rigid quarantine and purged his weakened body of the microscopic invaders. But what standard of medicine could he expect from such people? Probably little better than primitive herbalism, he thought, and wondered why his burning mind did not react more fearfully to this supposition. Perhaps he was rapidly losing the capacity to care. Time passed and the strange faces no longer paraded past his faceplate. Only occasionally did one Or two -- with which he had become familiar -- press forward, perhaps to monitor his rapid deterioration. Why dont they do something? Instead of just watching him and haunting him with their archaic incompetence. Help me, his mind cried out. Cant you see I need help? I'm dying, don't you see that? Can't you see that? And for himself alone: Mother, am I really? Had he survived his desertion and his incredible descent only to have what was left of him burned alive by these terrible alien bacteria? Was there no way for him to... He could feel his mind slipping away, his conscious thoughts disintegrating; the possibility of logical, sequential thought became lost to him. His hands ceased their occasional fumbling with the dead controls and he slumped back into the fiery well that was his world. He closed his eyes and fell into a deep sleep, surrounded by the fires and fury of a hell that had only previously existed in the unplumbed depths of his racial memory. the space suit doubtfully. haven't any tools that can open that thing," he announced. "Just take a close look at the metal. I've never seen anything like it." "What about the faceplate?" the mayor asked. He had become agitated; their time was running out. "Could we -- " "Not unless you want to mash IF him about and kill him. The stuffs too tough to cut -- or for a couple of taps to crack it open." 'There's some sort of opening around the back," Jarvis said. "I've been looking real close and it seems to me that there's some sort of hatchway there. It's opened slightly." The blacksmith walked around to the other side of the suit and hunkered down in the dirt so that he could inspect the narrow opening the old man indicated. It was a narrow crack about three and a half feet long and it did indeed look like part of a hatchway. But the rest of it merged so smoothly with the gigantic carapace that it was difficult to gauge its shape. "Well, what do you say?" Dunstable asked. "Can you lever that open?" The blacksmith pursed his heavy lips and scowled. "Wouldn't like to say. But I'll give it a go." He stood up, spat on his hands and rubbed them together. "Get as many strong lads as you can find -- we'll be needing them. If we take it in shifts then we just might budge it. But it'll take strength if I'm to judge from the workmanship of this thing." The mayor leaned closer and, out of sight of the rest of the townspeople, breathed a confidence: "We have to get him out, you understand. Our air is dangerous to his lungs; it could very well kill him. And if we don't get him to the physician in time -- " The blacksmith nodded. "Well, no use standing here. Let's get, on with it... He walked back to where he had deposited an assortment of his tools on the bare ground. He selected a long crowbar and gestured to one of the young men who had assigned themselves to his direction. "I have several more of these in my barn. Go fetch them -- as fast as you can. We'll have need of them." The youth -- and one otherhastened away. Bleeker gripped the crowbar in his hands and moved back behind the gigantic space suit. He found the narrow aperture of the hatchway and worked the sharp point of the instrument an inch or so into the crevice. He leaned with all his weight upon the other end but the hatchway -- if that was what it was -- refused to budge. "Some help here, lads," he called out. And they rushed forward to partake of this unaccustomed ritual. blows and curses and the hammering at his back, but he did not mind. Half in and half out of this grotesque world, with his mind on fire and his body weeping a rank, offensive fluid from every pore, he found time to dream in his fiery hell. Through the flames he could see the great ships he had traveled with and the marvelous worlds his people had made for themselves between the stars, like delicate crystaline webs spun across the eternal night. His skin tingled with affectionate memory of the warmth beamed down by the tiny suns they had kindled to illuminate his world. Mother, why hast thou forsaken me? Accidentally. She did not know. You should have known. Mother. Dont you see? My mind is on fire, fm burning up, one small cell at a time... He saw his home world moving through space, felt the benign gravitation beneath his feet and basked in the emancipation of his people. He was space-born and had never known the feel of a planet underneath his feet or the burden of an unvarying gravity. His environment had been efficaciously controlled and he had never been exposed to the remorseless ravages of time and of the seasons that had made the faces of the colonists so gaunt and their lifetimes so short. And now he had fallen from this state of grace. In his burning mind he saw his world turn and move toward him. Attendant suns flickered and died; the dark heavens disappeared and his world shimmered and opaqued as it moved from one realm of space into another so that it might cross light-years in an instant. Mother, are you coming for me? Mother? It was getting darker outside. Had the sky become dull as it prepared this world for dusk or had his eyesight betrayed him? Mattaro was afraid. to open the stubborn hatchway. Two hours of sweating and cursing and sheer exhaustion. The blacksmith remained doggedly in command, seeing his youthful helpers come and go, applying their determined strength to the crowbars and then despairing -- and each time moving the doorway a Finally it was wide enough for them to perceive the man inside and for them to reach in and grasp his shoulders. The spaceman did not stir: his mind -- and his strength -- seemed to have failed him. They eased him from the protective webbing as gently as they could and carefully lowered him to a pallet. The villagers stood back in awe. He seemed so pale and fragile without his fantastic carapace, like a chrysalis ripped before its time from its cocoon; but even then his IF body seemed to radiate a supernal quality that was quite overpowering. Some fell to their knees and prayed. Women wept and small children hugged their mothers' skirts and looked out upon the creature with one eye closed. A mornful chant went up from a group composed of older women; the dirge was caught up by the rest of the villagers and intoned with a deep sense of forboding. The town physician bent over the wasted spaceman. He rolled back each eyelid in turn with his thumb and clucked disapprovingly. He rose, crossed himself and directed the two men he had assigned as carriers to hasten about their business. 'Take him to my surgery," he directed. "Quickly." The two men trotted off. A path opened for them between the awestruck villagers. The mayor and his councilmen hurried after the litter as best as they could. The physician, a few years their junior, set a cracking pace they found difficult to emulate. Jarvis hurried after them, a look of deep concern on his wizened face. After a short pause, during which the doleful chant fragmented and died, the villagers moved after the outre procession, like tufts of weed sucked into a vacuum left by a passing wind. The blacksmith Carefully packed up his tools, then made his way slowly back to the township. the journey by litter only as an even, jogging rhythm, occasionally broken. His mind had ceased to function in the external world. His body was on fire from head to toe and he was not responsible for the parade of images that danced through the brightlands of his fiery thoughts. They placed him in the physician's surgery, in a warm bed that had been quickly installed for the occasion. They closed and barred all the windows and lit a great fire in the hearth, hoping that these humble precautions would keep out the deadly bacteria and help to warm the spaceman's cold body. But he was aware of none of these thoughtful ministrations. The physician readied a sedative and poured a little of it into the spaceman's mouth. The poor creature seemed to have lost the ability to move his lips and his tongue, so the remainder of the dense liquid spilled down onto the bedclothes. But enough found its way down his tortured throat to prove effective. He quickly fell asleep. His breathing became more regular and his degree of perspiration slackened. A nightwatch was kept by his bedside and they hoped that his strange fever would abate. But when morning came they found him delirious and they were unable to reach him. Mattaro's dying. He saw times and places and creatures he could never have imagined, let alone have remembered. But a part of him that had not yet been touched by the deadly fire did remember. Sometimes he seemed to stand naked on a rock-strewn landscape while a savage wind drove a scouring rain against his bare, shivering flesh. Another time he huddled in a cave, his body wrapped in foul-smelling skins, and watched the flickering firelight in front of him weave eerie patterns on the walls -- walls upon which were carved unimaginable things. And outside the hungry howls of carniverous animals savaged the night. He saw suns from an angle he had never before known: high overhead in a sky of dazzling blue and ochre. He felt his feet sink into the rich, dark soil of a hundred different worlds. His dying mind became a riot of landscapes he had never seen, people he had never known and worlds he would never have thought possible. And still he did not understand. He was pithecanthropus, homo sapiens, Jupiter and Zeus; Alexander and Plato, Aristophanes and Icarus; he was Christ and Mohammed, Freud and Jung, Columbus and Armstrong; Montgomery, Napoleon -- and Hitler. He was everything and everybody who had ever lived. There: in the bottommost ragbag of all, the racial memory that had slumbered untapped until the Pandora's box of this world had opened and swallowed him up. Now he remembered. In odd, distorted fragments, all that his people had ever been and ever hoped to be. It was all there, had always been there, but consciously inviolate until now. Until this dreadful dying had been visited upon him. His own world seemed very far away, almost a superimposed memory -- and nothing more. The fires had eaten most of it away; only a few tattered remnants clung to his disintegrated thoughts. His would-be rescuers watched over him, bathed his body and did what they could to ease his pain. But there was a limit to what their primitive medicine could accomplish and even the reluctant physician finally had to admit that his survival was in the hands of the gods. By which he meant the space people. In the morning the sun rose and shone brightly through the open window at the foot of his bed. They saw no reason to maintain the useless facade of protection any IF longer and they thoijight he would appreciate the sunlight. Something seemed to happen. He opened his eyes and looked out upon the wonder of this fresh young world and for the first time since they had rescued him a small measure of insanity and recognition crept into his eyes. But his brain still burned and the pain was terminal. Something beautiful seemed to come across the sweeping grasslands and over the river and down toward the house where he had slumbered. Something gigantic and hopeful, a great gull-winged world, dazzling in the light of its twin attendant suns. It grew until it filled his mind and blotted out the terrifying ancient landscapes. For a moment he strugged and sat up, leaning heavily on one weak elbow. His other hand stretched out toward the open window and a wild, glazed look leaped into his eyes. "Mother!" he cried. But the shimmering, golden world turned suddenly away. The tiny suns winked out and the dazzling silhouette of his home presented her stern to him, like a ghostly galleon passing by a drifting, abandoned seaman. For perhaps several seconds he remained rigid in that posture, his eyes fastened upon some deep internal vision, and then he slumped back. "Mother -- " he whispered. He closed his eyes and saw no more and several hours later he was dead. T he funeral was held the following day. The whole town turned out for the occasion, each person bearing mind what he and she would relate to their children and their children's children -- how the town had witnessed the fall of a spaceman and attended his magnificent funeral. They made his grave a short distance from the town, atop a small rise where the first rays of the morning sun would warm his cold ghost, and they declared it to be a holy place where pilgrims might draw spiritual sustenence. Every day thereafter two small children visited the grave and placed small floral tributes to the departed spaceman, and two small trees were planted so that they might be nourished by the holy soil; and the fruit they eventually bore was known as holy thereafter and was partaken of on the one day of the year when the town commemorated the fall of the spaceman. And so the spaceman vanished into legend. The two small trees took strong root and flourished over his grave and their fine silver branches grew and yearned towards the distant sky.  Dear Mr. Jakobsson: As a geneticist, I have followed with interest your editorials in Galaxy and If on ""skintelligence"' and heartily support your position.  find it difficult to reconcile the attitudes you express in your editorials with the use of phrases such as ""that's white of you" and ""indian giver" which appear in Laumers' story in the last issue off. I feel that as editor you bear responsibility for seeing to it that careless use of phrases derogatory to certain groups of people does not occur within your magazines. I recognize the possibility that it might be ""in character" for certain story people to speak this way, but I think that the literary use of such expressions must be exceedingly carefully scrutinized. In the story in question I do not feel that there was any justification for such chauvinistic terms.  With reference to Coney's story in the same issue,  should like to call to your attention that geneticists have dropped the terms ""mongol" and ""mongoloid" nearly a decade ago as objectionable in their racial implications. Downs Syndrome is the presently accepted terminology, named after the man who first described the condition. One of the few advantages of my participation in the present wave of professional unemployment is that I have time to write letters. Who knows,  might even start writing science fiction... Selina Bendix, Ph.D. Berkeley, Cal. I give myself full freedom to say what I feel compelled to say in the space I allot myself in these magazines and sign with the label of my true descent and natural heritage. And of course there's always the hope that minds will meet. But I don't give myself the same liberties under other people's bylines in the rest of the magazine or magazines, whose primary functions I see as serving a highly articulate and intelligent, specialized readership. Theoretically -- though the theory has yet to be tested -- I should be able to publish a piece of fiction diametrically opposed to my views, provided it were true to its art and genre. And were not a lie. But I agree with your goals. Dr. Bendix, and am delighted on these pages to pass your comments on to readers and authors. Though I feel that you may have misread Laumer, whose use of the cliches of Earth colonialism in the Retief series is a consistent, satiric and IF quiet swearing at that colonialism. And let's get "Down's Syndrome" accepted by the dictionary publishers. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: I think there can be a "working definition" of science fiction, and it could be: A story using some or all of (#) science, (#) imaginative theoretical science, # fanciful poetic license, treating of some aspect of life in the real and for imaginary universe, past, present, and or future: the proportion of these determining whether the story is realistic, speculative or fanciful. This can be reduced to a logical set of symbols that are too fundamental to be further reduced: # Ss Even when there is very little or no science in science fiction we instinctively use science or our knowledge of it) as measure, and some fantasy seems to suggest another science that springs from a hidden aspect of reality: so, even with the supernatural, can one get away from the science (or lack of it) in science fiction and fantasy? Henry Bitman Azusa, Cal. Dear Mr. Jakobsson: First of all I want to thank you for the reply I received from you. I see what a writer meant when he mentioned that personal touch a couple months ago.  just finished reading Fear No Evil and Whipping Star the other day. I know that the one is over a year old, but to tell the truth this is the first time I've had a chance to sit down and read the whole thing. I've got some issues back in I# I'm still promising myself I'll read when I get a chance. Tm happy to see that Galaxy is back on a monthly schedule -- the only thing is that with the very poor distribution in this city, that means I have to be on the lookout twice as often. Can you tell me why If gets better distribution? But back to the two novels: I think I was sidetracked. I dont know why, but in recent months Tve had the feeling that every author has been rushed to conclude his work, not only in your magazines but others, too. Maybe Tm being too critical with this, but Heinleins ending had the feeling of being tacked on and Herbert's had a feeling of deus ex machina. What the novel Dune Messiah had I wont even say -- except to tell you I was quite disappointed. However, weak Heinlein, Herbert, or even T. J. Bass's little tidbits are better than a lot of the utter crud being marketed in paperback format these days. At least these authors know how to write. Maybe the only way out is for me to attempt to submit something to you, at least then Td have the right to complain. There's only one problem, I don't know if the world is yet ready for me -- or I for it. John Beck Youngstown, Ohio Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Thank you very much for printing my letter that requested help in forming a science fiction group in Calgary. A member of the British Columbia SF Society saw the letter, looked my name up in the phone directory, and gave me a call. He gave me addresses of peoply who would offer suggestions on how to form a group. All in all I contacted over # but the important thing was the appearance of the letter in If. Your assistance was vital in getting things started in Calgary. Enclosed you will find abrief description of our first meetings and how the group developed. I hope to print a guide to forming SF groups and will send you copies. The guide should come in handy if any other I f readers want to organize. The next few comments are on If. I hope you will take them in the spirit in which they were made, that of constructive criticism. When you print a letter, why not print the full address of the writer? I would like to contact Sid KrupJan-Feb #I issue is that he lives in Riverside, California. Do I write to hunt through all the Krupicka's to find Sid? Or will the letter come back marked Insufficient Address? Suppose If gave its address as only New York, N. Y. #; would this letter have reached you? Second point. There is something about the type face being used that makes it difficult to read. I have no trouble reading pocketbooks with smaller type but there is some quirk in IF printing that irritates me. I can't pin it down but that's what I feel. Third. I think the illos in If leave something to be desired, including the covers. Freas-FinlayValigursky seem to draw beautiful and striking illusions with depth and reality. In comparison the Jan-Feb cover seems flat and stale. That's just one opinion of course and I admit a very biased statistical sampling. There are, believe it or not, a few good words I can write about If. Reading Room by del Rey is always excellent and I really enjoyed that Retief story. The magazine content is great! Well, so much at playing critic. My best regards in '#, Brian Hval # Home Road N.W. Calgary # Alberta Canada Correspondents' complete addresses will be published in Hue and Cry only if requested in writing. IF The doctor ffoM ine"Marguerileryou can be alive and ugly or beautKwl and dead? The day I first noticed the small pink spot on my cheek, I had other things on my mind. The New York papers said, "Marguerite Piazza opens at the Persian Room". I covered the spot with makeup, walked out into the spotlight, and forgot it -- forgot everything -- in the joy of singing. It wasn't until the spot began to spread, that I went to a cancer specialist. The day the doctor told me I'd have to have radical face surgery, I was sure my career was over. It was no longer a matter of saving my looks. Just of saving my life. They kept the mirrors in my hospital room covered for a week. And yet today, thanks to the fantastic skill of the surgeons, I sing in the spotlight again. I let myself be photographed full-face by a famous photographer of glamorous women. And I am alive. So now you know why I am appealing to you on behalf of the American Cancer Society. To give money. To get regular checkups. And to pay attention to cancer's warning signals. You know, there's something much worse than finding out you have cancer. And that's not finding out. Americcin Cancer Society... We want to wipe out cancer in your lifetime.! #. Science Fiction Hll of Fame I. # "winners." chosen by Scl-Pl Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silver berg. # pages. Pub. ed. # with trial membership Print name What do you thin would happen  A group of workers controlling all the  nation's transportation decided to strike? A temperamental child could destroy anything displeasing him? A key defense scientist became convinced man was no more than a high-class bacterium cultured by a superior life form? Machines created to think like people developed people emotions? If these questions intrigue, we invite you to sample the solutions devised by some of the world's great writers. You'll find them in The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, one of the fascinating books that can be yours with membership in the Science Fiction Book Club. Choose any # books for #, plus shipping and handling. You can include if you wish, The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, the stories "every real reader of science fiction has to know." Lester del Rey. Broaden your pleasure with the Science Fiction Book Club. The coupon tells how. Sdence Flcdoo Book Club #-S#S Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me Just # plus shipping and handling for all #. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin "Things To Come" describing the two monthly selections and other book bargains. If I do not wish to receive one of the two monthly selections, or prefer an alternate or no bo(A at all. I simply indicate so on the form provided. I pay only #. plus shipping and handling for each book I take. (Occasional extra-value selections are slightly more.) I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign ansrUme after purchasing # books. introductory package. I may return it in # days. BCembershlp will be canceled. I will owe nothing. If under #, parent must sign above. I Office use only #. Prelude to Mars by Arthur C. Clarke. Two complete novels. Sands of Mars and Prelude to Space, # short stories, by the sci-fl "colossus." Pub. ed. # #. The Last Hurrah of the Golden Horde by Norman Spinshort stories by the new young sci-fl giant. ##. Ice Crown by Andre Norton. A closed planet holds strange colonists locked in intrigue over a royal crown with dread power. Pub. ed. # #. Neanderthal Planet by Brian W. Aldiss. # novella gems. Never before published in U.S.! Shrewd, witty, ingenious. #. Beyond the Beyond by Poul Anderson. Six novellas by Hugo Award winner. About scientists, pirates, loners. #t#. Five Fates. A remarkable tour de force. Five top writers supply their own endings for "After life, what?" Pub. ed. # #. RockeU in Ursa Major by Fred Hoyle and Geoffrey Hoyle. A spaceship returns crewless, announcing the coming of a deadly peril. Pub. ed. # #. The Tear # An Anthology edited by Harry Harrison. Thirteen compelling new stories on the quality of life # years from now. Pub. ed. # #. Future Shock by Alvin TofiBer. National Best Seller. "Essential reading for those... committed to controlling , their destinies.' Psychology To- day. Pub. ed... # #. Quest for the Future by A. E. Van Vogt. The electrifying adventure of the man who discovers immortality and the secrets of time. #. Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. "WUdly fantastic! -- Ailantki. Pub. ed. #  #. Dangerous' Visions ed... by Harlan Ellison. Anthology of # stories never before in print hy Sturgeon, Anderson. others. Pub. ed. # Book Club tdittons art aomotimts rtductd In sizt, but they are all full-lenctb, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent libfwyMembers accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer sllchtiy'different in Canada.  now include works by these month's offering is a prime pair from Derleth, The Mask of Cthulhu and The Trail of Cthulhu -- #, story collection and a novel about hapless mortals' involvement with the terrifying beings from between the dimensions -- Cthulhu, Hastur the Unspeakable, Ying, the amorphous fluteplayer, and the Goat with the Thousand Young. And next month, we'll have what is probably Lovecraft's solidest novel. The Case of Charles Dexter Ward. Lovecraft Lives! -- mainly because the stories he wrote and the concepts he invented are too gripping to stop reading...or to stop writing. The roster of writers who have carried on Lovecraft's characters and ideas is a Whos Who of fantasy greats -- August Derleth, Robert Bloch, Frank Belknap Long, Colin Wilson, Clark Ashton Smith, Henry Kuttner. Goulartifice -- a new noun, or Beaglism, to use as a label for Ron Goulart's acid zaniness and what the New York Times calls his "bleak but bracing humor." Death Cell is the first novel dealing with Jack Summer of Muckrake, the galactic newsmag -- a first-rate Goulartifact. An Intw Publisher #I Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. # # each wherever paperbacks are sold. For mail orders, please send # for each book (includes postage and handling) to: Beagle Books, Dept. CS # West # Street New York, N.Y. #I JulyAugust, #I Vol. #, No. I # Issuo # C#f Jakobsson, Editor Lostor dol Roy, Foaturo Editor Judy-Lynn Boniamin, Managing Editor Franc L. Roggori, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director L. C. Murphy, Subscription Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director s tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. and RtcicU)rs wrjtfr (Uid wrorui Mr. Jakobsson: Having only recently acquired and read a complete Sherlock Holmes (Berkley), I was especially delighted by Slaves of Silver in the March April If. As I began the story, I thought I detected something familiar in Mr. Wolfe's fusty, latenineteenth-century style. Not until Street began dissecting Dr. Westing s appearance and the implications thereof did I really catch on, though. Once  was wise to what Mr. Wolfe was doing, however, I found it difficult to keep a straight face until  had finished the story. Do you know if any more such works are or will be in the offing? I have always enjoyed Holmes and finding a modern Holmes quite excites me. Eric C. Sanders Grand Blank, Mich. Are you there, Gene Wolfe? Dear Mr. Jakobsson:  have just finished reading the two stories by T. J. Bass in your Nov-Dec and Jan-Feb issues and  am overwhelmed. Who is he?  have been reading sci-fi for years but have never run across him before. I hope you will have more stories by him in the future. Incidentally, both Galaxy and If have become excellent magazines and I thank you for providing the intelligent SF reading public with consistently interesting and wellwritten stories. My one note of dissatisfaction is the exclusion of Vaughn Bode from Galaxy's pages. Why was thisr done and is there any possibility that he may be seen there once again? Michael L. Charters #th Psychological Operations Battalion, A PO SF # T. J. Bass is a young pathologist who wrote his First in #. Since then he has appeared in both Galaxy and If last question: reader reaction did not encourage us to continue featuring a cartoon strip. Dear M. Jakobsson: I feel that Mr. ZabeVs definition of science fiction as given in his letter (MarchApril #) is merely an impersonal extention of the one Heinlein proposed in #. His definition (then) was that sf is 'fiction about things that have not happened. This is really a description of virtucdly all fiction from Joyce on out. By inserting a qualifying factor on the "probability' of a story's event I like to think I have narrowed the scope to our genre. As to your comment that a story's "probability" depends on the writer's handling of events -- I can not agree. The handling of story events may give them a semblance of probability they do not deserve -- but an objective analysis will reveal the actual likelihood of a plot: I believe that it is the author s choice of events, and this alone, that determines a story s  probability i not plausiblity, which means ability to convince). For instance,  dont consider Fail Safe to be sf because the possibility of commitment to a nuclear war due to a burned-out fuse is all too likely. On the other hand, an attempt by aliens to cause a nuclear war by bombardment from the moon (as in Isaac Asimovs Gentle Vultures) is a much less likely event and so is sf. There, of course, is the essential weakness of my catchphrase -- probability is relative. Still, I do not consider the point a fault -- merely a weakness. As to what sf does, says or means, I can only answer for myself, I believe that any sf work can say whatever the author wishes it to, but what it does is explore change. Almost every piece of sf from Ralph #C# through The High Crusade to Dune explores the one certainty -- change -- and its effects on people and society. This, to me, is what sf means -- that change is certain, is occurring and is the single greatest factor in our lives. However dimly, sf explores the one truth that mainstream fiction ignores -- that this too shall pass. Please print my full address pH Vogel #I St, Anthony London, Ont, Canada HailJakobsson!  see Vogel has found in your letter column a new outlet for his theses. His definition is, as usual, an idea taken much too seriously with Heinlein, Panshin, with semantics dragged into shore up his position, I just read his latest letter (Before he mailed it?-Ed) and  see he is going fo expound his  philosophy of science fiction to you, too. In the interest of balance (all us Canucks arent idiot geniuses) Ill throw in my definition, I believe its a paraphrase of a Heinlein characters definition of common sense and it goes like this: Science fiction is fiction that states that what did not happen yesterday will not necessarily not happen to morrow. ( Vogel says the foregoing is an unresolvable triple negative which is the sort of thing he delights in, ) 'Take VogeVs. two examples. Fail Safe is about blown fuses which are as old as electric lights. Gentle Vultures deals with aliens which would be something new in history. So by my definition Gentle Vultures is science fiction and Fail Safe ir not. You may print my full address. Aloysius Cupay # Lloyd Manor Cr. London, Ontario I agree -- Fail Safe is about Jhe dangers of a blown fuse. Please, guys, don't you two blow yours, both talking at once. But let's hear more, even at the risk of overloading circuits. I way of making a living. It was a good living, but of course he didn't make anything like the bundle he could have in the city. On the other hand he lived in the mountains a half mile away from a picturesque village in clean air and piney-birchy woods along with lots of mountain laurel and he was his own boss. There wasn't much competition for what he did; he had his wife and kids around all the time and more orders than he could fill. He was one of the night people and after the family had gone to bed he could work quietly and uninterruptedly. He was happy as a clam. One night very early morning, really he was interrupted. Bupbup, bup, bup. Knock at the window, two shorts, two longs. He froze, he whirled, for he knew that knock. He hadn't heard it for years but it had been a part of his life since he was born. He saw the face outside and filled his lungs for a  i Convince a winner that he's a loser -- and you may save mankind! whoop that would have roused them at the fire station on the village green, but then he saw the finger on the lips and let the air out. The finger beckoned and Joe Trilling whirled again, turned down a flame, read a gauge, made a note, threw a switch and joyfully but silently dove for the outside door. He slid out, closed it carefully, peered into the dark. "Karl?" "Shh." There he was, edge of the woods. ispering because Karl had asked for it, they hit each other, cursed, called each other the filthiest possible names. It would not be easy to explain this to an extra-terrestrial; it isn't necessarily a human thing to do. It's a cultural thing. It means, I want to touch you, it means I love you; but they were men and brothers, so they hit each other's arms and shoulders and swore despicable oaths and insults, until at last even those words wouldn't do and they stood in the shadows, holding each others' biceps and grinning and sidewards toward the road and they walked away from the house. "I don't want Hazel to hear us talking," Karl said, "I don't want her or anyone to know ( was here. How is she?" "Beautiful. Aren't you going to see her at all -- or the kids?" "Yes but not this tripi There's the car. We can tai there. I really am afraid of that bastard." "Ah," said Joe. "How is the great man?" "Po'ly," said Karl. "But we're talking about two different bastards. The great mao.Js. only the richest man in the world, but I'm not afraid of him, especially now. I'm talking about Cleveland Wheeler." "Who's Cleveland Wheeler?" T hey got into the car. "It's a rental," said Karl. "Matter of fact, it's the second rental. I got out of the executive jet and took a company car and rented another -- arid then this. Reasonably sure it's not bugged. That's one kirid of answer to your question, who's Cleve Wheeler. Other answers would be the man behind the throne. Next in line. Multifaceted genius. Killer shark." "Next ih line," said Joe, .responding to the only clause that made any sense. "The old man is sinking?" "Officially -- andf an official secret -- his hemoglobin reading is four. That mean anything to you. Doctor?" "Sure does. Doctor. Malnutritive anemia, if other rumors I hoar are true. Richest man in the world -- dying of starvation." "And old age -- and stubbornness -- and obsession. You want to hear about Wheeler?" "Tell me." "Mister lucky. Born with evcryr thing. Greek coin profile. Michaelangelo Qiuscles. Discovered early by a bright-eyed elementary school principal, sent to a. private school, used to go straight to the teachers' lounge in the morning and say what he'd been reading or thinking about. Then they'd tell off a teacher to work with him or go out with him or whatever. High school at twelve, varsity, track, basketball, football and high-diving -- three letters'for each -- yes, he graduated in three years, summa cum. Read ail the textbooks at the beginning of each term, never cracked them again. More than anything else he had the habit of success. "College, the same thing: turned sixteen in his first mester. Just ate everything up. Very popular. Graduated at the top again, of course." through college and medical school like a hodcarrier, grunted enviousIF ly. "Fvc seen one or two like that. Everybody marvels, nobody sees how easy it was for them.' Karl shook his head. "Wasn't quite like that with Cleve Wheeler. If anything was easy for him it was because of the nature of his equipment. He was like a fourhundred horsepower car moving in sixty-horsepower traffic. When his muscles were called on he used them, I mean really put it down to Well -- he had his choice of jobs -- hell, choice of careers. He went into an architectural firm that could use his math, administrative ability, public presence, knowledge of materials, art. Gravitated right to the top, got a partnership. Picked up a doctorate on the side while he was doing it. Married extremely well." "Mister Lucky," Joe said. iv-l Listen. Wheeler became a partner and he did his work and he knew his stuff -- everything he could learn or understand. Learning and understanding are not enoqgh to cope with some things like greed or unexpected stupidity or accident or sheer bad breaks. Two of the other partners got into a deal I won't bother you with -- a high-rise apartment complex in the wrong place for the wrong residents and land acquired the wrong way. Wheeler saw it coming, called them in and talked it over. They said yes-yes and went right ahead and did what they wanted anyway -- something that Wheeler never in the world expected. The one thing high cap-, ability and straight morals and a good education doesn't give you is the end of innocence, Cleve Wheeler was an innocent. "Well, it happened, the disaster that Cleve had predicted, but it happened far worse. Things like that, when they surface have a way of exposing a lot of other concealed rot. The firm collapsed. Cleve Wheeler had never failed at anything in his whole life. It was the one thing he had no practice in dealing with. Anyone with the most rudimentary intelligence would have seen that this was the time to walk away -- lie down, even. Cut his losses. But I don't think these things even occurred to him." "In one of Philip Wylies novels is a tremendous description of a forest fire and how the animals run away from it, the foxes and the rabbits running shoulder to shoulder, the owls flying in the daytime to get ahead of the flames. Then there's this beetle, lumbering along on the ground. The beetle comes to a burned patch, the edge of twenty acres of hell. It stops, it wiggles its feelers, it turns to the side and begins to walk around the fire -- " He laughed again. "That's the special thing Cleveland Wheeler has, you see, under all that muscle and brain and brilliance. If he had to -- and were a beetle -- he wouldn't turn back and he wouldn't quit. If all he could do was walk around it, he'd start walking." "What happened?" asked Joe. "He hung on. He used everything he had. He used his brains and his personality and his reputation and all his worldly goods. He also borrowed and promised -- and he worked. Oh, he worked. Well, he kept the firm. He cleaned out the rot and built it all up again from the inSide, strong and straight this time. But it cost. "It cost him time -- all the hours of every day but the four or so he used for sleeping. And just about when he had it leveled off and starting up, it cost him his wife." "You said he'd married well." "He'd married what you marry when you're a young block-buster on top of everything and going higher. She was a nice enough girl, I suppose, and maybe you can't blame her, but she was no more used to failure than he was. Only he could walk around it. He could rent a room and ride the bus. She just didn't know how -- and of course with women like that there's always the discarded swain somewhere in the wings." "How did he take that?" "Hard. He'd married the way he played ball or took examinations -- with everything he had. It did something to him. All this did things to him, I suppose, but that was the biggest chunk of it. "He didn't let it stop him. He didn't let aaything stop him. He went on until all the bills were paid -- every cent. Ail the interest. He kept at it until the net worth was exactly what It had been before his ex-partners had begun to eat out the core. Then he gave it away. Gave it away! Sold all right and title to his interest for a dollar." "Finally cracked, hm?" er scornfully. "Cracked. Matter of definition, isn't It? Cleve Wheeler's goal was zero -- can you understand that? What is success anyhow? Isn't it making up your mind what you're going to do and then doing it, all the way?" "In that case,". said his brother quietly, "suicide is success." K arl gave him a long penetrating look. "Right," he said, and thought about it a moment. "Anyhow," Joe asked, "why zero?" "I did a lot of research on Cleve Wheeler, but I couldn't get inside his head. I don't know. But t can guess. He meant to owe no man anything. I don't know how he felt about the company he saved, but I IF can imagine; The man he became -- was becoming -- wouldn't want to owe it one damned thing. I'd say he just wanted out -- but on his own terms, which included leaving nothing behind to work on him." "Okay," said Joe. thing about old, Joe b that he'll wait. All these years apart with hardly any communication beyond birthday cards -- and not always that -- and here he bjust as if we were still together every day. I wouldn't be here if it weren't important;  wouldn't be telling him all thb unless he needed to know; he wouldn't need any of it unless he was going to help. All that unsaid -- I don't. have to ask him a damn thing. What am I interrupting in hb life? What am I going to interrupt?  won't have to worry about that. He'll take care of it. He said, "I'm glad I came here, Joe." Joe said, "That's all right," which meant all the things Karl had been thinking. Karl grinned and hit him on the shoulder and went on talking. "Wheeler dropped out. It's not easy to map his trail for that period. It pops up all over. He lived in at least three communes -- maybe more, but those three were a mess when he came and a model when he left. He started businesses -- all things that had never happened before, like a supermarket with no shelves, no canned music, no games or stamps, just neat stacks of open cases, where the customer took what he wanted and marked it according to the card posted by the case, with a marker hanging on a string. Eggs and frozen meat and fish and the like, and local produce were pric a flat two percent over wholesale. People were honest because, they could never be sure the checkout counter didn't know the prices of everything -- besides, to cheat on the prices listed would have been just too embarrassing. With nothing but a big empty warehouse for overhead and no employees spending thousands of man. hours marking individual items, the prices beat any diount house that ever lived. He sold that one, too, and moved on. He started a line of organic baby foods without preservatives, franchised it and moved on again. He developed a plastic container that would burn without polluting and patented it and sold the patent." "I've heard of that one. Haven't seen it around, though." "Maybe you will," Karl said in a guarded tone. "Maybe you will. adena-handling details, and just did his thfng all over. I never heard of a failure in anything he tried." "Sounds like a junior edition of the great man himself, your honored boss." "You're not the only one who realized that. The boss may be a ding-a-ling in many ways, but nobody ever faulted his business sense. He has always had his tentacles out for wandering pieces of very special manpower. For all I know he had drawn a bead on Cleveland Wheeler years back. I wouldn't doubt that he'd made, offers from time to time, only during that period Cleve Wheeler wasn't about to go to work for anyone that big. His whole pattern is to run things his way, and you don't do that in an established empire." "Heir apparent," saidJoe, reminding him of something he had said earlier. "Right," nodded Karl. "I knew you'd begin to get the idea before I was finished." "But finish," said Joe. ing to tell you, I just want you to know. I don't expect you to understand it or what it means or what it has all done to Cleve Wheeler. I need your help, and you can't really help me unless you know the whole story." "Shoot." found a girl. Her name was Clara Prieta and her folks came from Sonora. She was bright as hell -- in her way, I suppose, as bright as Cleve, though with a tenth of his schooling -- and pretty as well, and it was Cleve she wanted, not what he might get for her. She fell for him when he had nothing -- when he really wanted nothing. They were a daily, hourly joy to each other. I guess that was about the time he started building this business and that, making something again. He bought a little house and a car. He bought two cars, one for her. I don't think she wanted it, but he couldn't do enoughs -- he was always looking for more things to do for her. They went out for an evening to some friends' house, she from shopping, he from whatever it was he was working on then, so they had both cars. He followed her on the way home and had to watch her lose control and spin out. She died in his arms." "Oh, Jesus." "Mister Lucky. Listen: a week la,ter he turned a corner downtown and found himself looking at a bank robbery. He caught a stray bullet -- grazed the back of his neck. He had seven months to lie still and think about things. When he got out he was told his business manager had embezzled everything and headed south with his secretary. Everything." "What did he do?" "Went to work and paid his hospital bill." They sat in the car in the dark for a long time, until Joe said, IF "Was he paralyzed, there in the hospital?" "For nearly five months.". "Wonder what he thought about." ine what he thought about. What I can't imagine is what he decided. What he concluded. What he determined to be. Damn it, there are no accurate words for it. We all do the best we can with what we've got, or try to. Or should. He did -- and with the best possible material to start out 'with. He played it straight; he worked hard; he was honest and lawful and fair; he was fit; he was bright. He dame out of the hospital with those last two qualities intact. God alone knows what's happened to the rest of it." "So he went to work for the old man." "He did -- and somehow that frightens me. It was as if all his qualifications were not enough to suit both of them until these things happened to him -- until they made him become what he is." "And what is that?" "There isn't a short answer to that, Joe. The old man has become a modern myth. Nobody ever sees him. Nobody can predict what he's going to do or why. Cleveland Wheeler stepped into his shadow and disappeared almost as completely as the boss. There are very few things you can say forcertain. The boss has always been a recluse and in the ten years Cleve Wheeler has been with him he has become more so. It's been business as usual with him, of course -- which means the constantly unusual -- long periods of quiet, and then these spectacular unexpected wheelings and dealings. You assume that the old man dreams these things up and some high-powered genius on his staff gets them done. But it could be the genius that instigates the moves -- who can know? Only the people closest to him -- Wheeler, Epstein, me. And I don't know." "But Epstein died." "Epstein died. Which leaves only Wheeler to watch the store. I'm the old man's personal physician, not Wheeler's, and there's no guarantee that I ever will be Wheeler's." and leaned back, looking out into the whispering dark. "It begins to take shape," he murmured. "The old man's on the way out, you very well might be and there's nobody to take over but this Wheeler." "Yes, and I don't know what he is or what he'll do. I do know he will command more power than any single human being on Earth. He'll have so much that he'll be above any kind of Cupidity that j(ou or I could imagine -- pu or I can't think in that order of magnitude. But you see, he's a man who, you might say, has had it proved to him that being good and smart and strong and honest doesn't particularly pay off. Where will he go with all this? And hypothesizing that he's been making more and' more of the decisions lately, and extrapolating from that -- where is he going? All you can be sure of is that he will succeed in anything he tries. That is his habit." "What does he want? Isn't that what you're trying to figure out? What would a man like that want, if he knew he could get it?" ' "I knew I'd come to the right place," said. Karl almost happily. "That's it exactly. Aa.for me, I have all I need now and there are plenty of other places I could go. I wish fpstein were still around, but he's dead and cremated." "Cremated?" "That's right -- you wouldn't know about that. Old man's instructions. I handled it myself. You've heard of the hot and cold private swimming pools -- but I bet you never heard of a man with his own private crematorium in the second sub-basement." Joe threw up his hands. "I guess if you can reach into your pocket lars, you can have anything you want. By the way -- was that legal?" "Like you said -- if you have two cal examiner was present and signed the papers. And he'll be there when the .old nian pushes off too -- it's all in the final instructions. Hey -- wait, I don't want to cast any aspersions on the M.E. He wasn't bought. He did a very competent examination on Epstein." "Okay -- we know what to expect when the time comes. It's afterward you're worried about." "Right. What has the old man -- I'm speaking of the corporate old man now -- what has he been doing all along? What has he been doing in the last ten years, since he got Wheeler -- and is it any different from what he was doing before? How much of this difference, if any, is more Wheeler than boss? That's all we have to go on, Joe, and from it we have to extrapolate what Wheeler's going to do with the Biggest private economic force this world has ever known." "Let's talk about that," said Joe, beginning to smile. he began to smile a little, too. They talked about it. II T he crematorium in the second sub-basement was purely functional, as if all concessions to sentiment and ritual had been made elsewhere, or canceled. The latter most accurately described what IF had happened when at last, at long long last, the old man did. Everything was done precisely according to his instructions immediately after he was certifiably dead and before any public announcements were made -- right up to and including the moment when the square mouth of the furnace opened with a startling clang, a blare of heat, a flare of light -- the hue the old-time blacksmiths called straw color. The simple coffin slid rapidly in, small flames exploding into being on its corners, and the door banged shut. It took a moment for the eyes to adjust to the bare room, the empty greased track, the closed door. It took the same moment for the conditioners to whisk away the sudden smell of scorched soft pine. The medical examiner leaned over the small table and signed his Cleveland Wheeler did the same. The M.E. tore off copies and folded them and put them away in his breast pocket. He looked at the closed square iron door, opened his mouth, closed it again and shrugged. He held out his hand. "Good night. Doctor." '"Good night. Doctor. Rugosi's outside -- he'll show ydu out." The M.E. shook hands wordlessly with Cleveland Wheeler and left. "I know Just what he's feeling," Karl said. "Something ought to be said. Something memorable -- end of an era. Like 'One small step for man -- Cleveland Wheeler smiled the bright smile of the college hero, fifteen years after -- a little less wide, a little less even, a great deal less in the eyes. He said in the voice that commanded, whatever he said, "If you think you're quoting the first words from an astronaut on the moon, you're not. What he said was from the ladder, when he poked his boot down. He said, 'It's some kind of soft stqff. I can kick it around with my foot.' I've always liked that much better. It was real, it wasn't rehearsed or memorized or thought out and it had to do with that moment and the next. The M.E. said good night and you told him the chauffeur was waiting outside. I like that better than anything anyone could say. I think he would, too," Wheeler added, barely gesturing, with a very strong, slightly cleft chin, toward the hot black door. "But he wasn't exactly human." "So they say." Wheeler half smiled and, even as he turned away, Karl could sense himself tuned out, the room itself become of secondary importance -- the next thing Wheeler was to do, and the next and the one after, becoming more real than the here and now. Karl put a fast end to that. He said levelly, "I meant what I just said, Wheeler." It couldn't have been the words, which by themselves might have elicited another half-smile and a forgetting. It was the tone, and perhaps the "Wheeler." There is a ritual, about these things. To those few on his own level, and those on the level below, he was Cleve. Below that he was mister to his face and Wheeler behind his back. No one of his peers would call him mister unless it was meant as the herald of an insult; no one of his peers or immediate underlings would call him Wheeler at all, ever. Whatever the component, it removed Cleveland Wheeler's hand from the knob and turned him. His face was completely alert and interested. "You'd best tell me what you mean. Doctor." Karl said, "I'll do better than that. Come." Without gestures, suggestions or explanations he walked to the left rear of the room, leaving it up to Wheeler to decide whether or not to follow. Wheeler followed. him. "If you ever say anything about this to anyone -- even me -- when we leave here. I'll just deny it. If you ever get in here again, you won't find anything to back up your story." He took a complex four-inch blade of machined stainless steel from his belt and slid it between the big masonry blocks. Silently, massively, the course of blocks in the corner began to move upward. Looking up at them in the dim light from the narrow corridor they revealed, anyone could see that they were real blocks and that to get through them without that key and the precise knowledge of where to put it would be a long-term project. Again Karl proceeded without looking around, leaving go, no-go as a matter for Wheeler to decide. Wheeler followed. Karl heard his footsteps behind him and noticed with pleasure and something like admiration that when the heavy blocks whooshed down and seated themselves solidly behind them, Wheeler may have looked over his shoulder but did not pause. "You've noticed we're alongside the furnace," Karl said, like a guided-tour bus driver. "And now, behind it." He stood aside to let Wheeler pass him and see the smalLroom. It was just large enough for the tracks which protruded from the back of the furnace and a little standing space on eaclr side. On the far side was a small table with a black suitcase standing on it. On the track stood the coffin, its corners carboned, its top and sides wet and slightly steaming. "Sorry to have to close that stone gate that way," Karl said matter-of-factly. "I don't expect anyone down here at all, but I wouldn't want to explain any of IF this to persons other than yourself." Wheeler was staring at the coffin. He seemed perfectly composed, but it was a seeming. Karl was quite aware of what it was costing him. Wheeler said, "I wish you'd explain it to me." And he laughed. It was the first time Karl had ever seen this man do anything badly. "I will. I am." He clicked open the suitcase and laid it open and flat on the little table. There was a glisten of chrome and steel and small vials in little pockets. The first tool he removed was a screwdriver. "No need to use screws when you're cremating 'em," he said cheerfully and placed the tip under one corner of the lid. He struck the handle smartly with the heel of one hand and the lid popped loose. "Stand this up against the wall behind you, will you?" Silently Cleveland Wheeler did as he was told. It gave him something to do with his muscles; it gave him the chance to turn his head away for a moment; it gave him a chance to think -- and it gave Karl the opportunity for a quick glance at his steady countenance. Hes a mensch, Karl thought. He really is , Wheeler set up the lid neatly and carefully and they stood, one on each side, looking down into the coffin. "He -- got a lot older," Wheeler said at last. "You haven't seen him recently" "Here and in there," said the executive, "I've spent more time in the same room with him during the past month than I have in the last eight, nine years. Still, it was a matter of minutes, each time." Karl nodded understandingly. "I'd heard that. Phone calls, any time of the day or night, and then those long silences two days, three, not calling out, not having anyone in -- " "Are you going to tell me about the phony oven?" "Oven? Furnace? It's not a phony at all. When we've finished here it'll do the job, all right." "Then why the theatricals?" "That was for the M.E. Those papers he signed are in sort of a never-never country just now. When we slide this back in and turn on the heat they'll become as legal as he thinks they are." "Then why -- ""things you have to know." Karl reached into the coffin and unfolded the gnarled hands. They came apart reluctantly and he pressed them down at the sides of the body. He unbuttoned the jacket, laid it back, unbuttoned the shirt, unzipped the trousers. When he had finished with this he looked up and found Wheeler's sharp gaze, not on the old man's corpse, but on him. "I have the feeling," said Cleveland Wheeler, 'Hhat I have never seen you before." But you do now. And, Thanks, Joey. You were dead right. Joe had known the answer to that one plaguing question. How should  act? Talk just the way he talks, Joe had said. Be what he is, the whole time... Be what he is. A man without illusions (they don't work) and without hope (who needs it?) who has the unbreakable habit of succeeding. And who cansay it's a nice day in such a way that everyone around snaps to attention and "You've been busy," Karl responded shortly. He took off his jacket, folded it and put it on the table beside the kit. He put on surgeon's gloves and slipped the sterile sleeve off a new scalpel. "Some people scream and faint the first time they watch a dissection." Wheeler smiled thinly. "I don't scream and faint." But it was not lost on Karl Trifling that only then, at the last possible moment, did Wheeler actually view the old man's body. When he did he neither screamed nor fainted; he uttered an astonished grunt. "Thought that would surprise you," Karl said easily. "In case you were wondering, though, he really was a male. The species seems to be oviparous. Mammals too, but it has to be oviparous. I'd sure like a look at a female. That isn't a vagina. It's a cloaca." "Until this mpment," said Wheeler in a hypnotized voice, "I thought that 'not human' remark of yours was a figure of speech,"' "No, you didn't," Karl responded shortly... Leaving the words to hang in the air, as words will if a speaker h'as the wit to isolate them with wedges x)f silence, he deftly slit the corpse from the sternum to the pubic symphysis. For the first-time viewer this was always the difficult moment. It's hard not to realize ' viscerally that the cadaver does not feel anything and will not protest. Nerve-alive to Wheeler, Karl looked for a gasp or a shudder; Wheeler merely held his breath. "We could spend hours -- weeks, I imagine, going into the details," Karl said, deftly making a transverse incision in the ensiform area, almost around to the trapezoid on each side, "but this is the thing I wanted you to see." Grasping the flesh at the juncture of the cross he had cut, on the left side, he pulled upward and to the left. The cutaneous layers came away easily, with the fat under them. They were not pinkish, but an offwhite lavendar shade. Now the muscular striations over the ribs IF were in view. "If you'd palpated the old man's chest," he said, demonstrating on the right side, "you'd have felt what seemed to be normal human ribs. But look at this." With a few deft strokes he separated the muscle fibers from the bone on a mid-costal area about four inches square, and scraped. A rib emerged and, aa,he widened the area and scraped between it and the next one, it became clear that the ribs were joined by a thin flexible layer of bone or chitin. "It's like baleen -- whalebone," said Karl. "See this?" He sectioned out a piece, flexed it. "My God." Ill 'OW look at this." Karl 'took surgical sheers from the kit, snipped through the sternum right up to the clavicle and then across the lower margin of the ribs. Slipping his fingers under them, he pulled upward. With a dull snap the entire ribcage opened like a door, exposing the lung. The lung was not pink, nor the liverish-browish-black of a smoker, but yellow -- the clear bright yellow of pure sulfur. "His metabolism," Karl said, straightening up at last and flexing the tension out of his shoulders, "is fantastic. Or was. He lived on oxygen, same as us, but he broke it out of carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide and trioxide and carbon dioxide mostly. I'm not saying he could -- I mean he had to. When he was forced to breathe what we call clean air, he could take Just so much of it and then had to duck out and find a few breaths of his own atmosphere. When he was younger he could take it for hours at a time, but as the years went by he had to spend more and more time in the kind of smog he could breathe. Those long disappearances of his, and that reclusiveness -- they weren't as kinky as people supposed." Wheeler made a gesture toward the corpse. "But -- what is he? Where -- " "I can't tell you. Except for a good deal of medical and biochemical details, you now know as much as I do. Somehow, somewhere, he arrived. He came, he saw, he began to make his moves. Look at this." He opened the other side of the chest and then broke the sternum up and away. He pointed. The lung tissue was not in two discreet parts, but extended across the median line. "One lung, all the way across, though it has these two lobes. The kidneys and gonads show the same right-left fusion." "I'll take your word for it," said Wheeler a little hoarsely. "Damn it, what is it?" "A featherless biped, as Plato once described homo sap. I don't know what it is. I just know that it is -- and I thought you ought to know. That's all." "But you've seen one before. That's obvious." "Sure. Epstein." "Epstein?" "Sure. The old man had to have a go-between -- someone who could, without suspicion, spend long hours with him and hours away. The old man could do a lot over the phone, but not everything. Epstein was, you might say, a right arm that could hold its breath a little longer tlan he could. It got to him in the end, though, and he died of it." "Why didn't you say something long before this?" "First of all, I value my own skin. I could say reputation, but skin is the word. I signed a contract as his personal physician because he needed a personal physician -- another bit of windowdressing. But I did precious little doctoring -- except over the phone -- 'and .jiine-tenths of that was, I realized quite recently, purely diversionary. Even a doctor, I suppose, can be a trusting soul. One or the other would call and give a set of symptoms and I'd cautiously suggest and prescribe. Then I'd get another call that the patient was improving and that was that. Why, I even got specimens -- blood, urine, stools -- and did the pathology on them and never realized that they were from the same source as what the medical examiner checked out and signed for." "What do you mean, same source?" Karl shrugged. "He could get anything he wanted -- anything." "Then -- what the M.E. examined wasn't -- " he waved a hand at the casket. Vrthe crematorium has a back door. There's a little pocket sleight-of-hand trick you can buy for fifty cents that operates the same way" This body here was inside the furnace. The ringer -- a look-alike that came from God knows where; I swear to you I don't -- was lying out there waiting for the M.E. When the button was pushed the fires started up and that coffin slid in -- pushing this one out and at the same time drenching it with water as it came through. While we've been in here, the human body is turning to ashes. My personal private secret instructions, both for Epstein and for the boss, were to wait until I was certain I was alone and then come in here after an hour and push the second button, which would slide this one back into the fire. I was to do no investigations, ask no questions, make no reports. It came through as logiIF cal but not reasonable, like so many of his orders." He laughed suddenly. "Do you know why the old man -- and Epstein too, for that matter, in case you never noticed -- wouldn't shake hands with anyone?" "I presumed it was because he had an obsession with germs." "It was because his normal body temperature was a hundred and seven." Wheeler touched one of his own hands with the other and said nothing. When Karl felt that the wedge of silence was thick enough he asked lightly, "Well, boss, where do we go from here?" Cleveland Wheeler turned away from the corpse and to Karl slowly, as if diverting his mind with an effort. "What did you call me?" "Figure of speech," said Karl and smiled. "Actually, I'm workingfor the company -- and that's you. I'm under orders, which have been finally and completely discharged when I push that button -- I have no others. So it really is up to you." Wheeler's eyes fell again to the. corpse. "You mean about him? This? What we should do?" "That, yes. Whether to burn it up and forget it -- or call in top management and an echelon of scientists. Or scare the living hell out of everyone on Earth by phoning the papers. Sure, that has to be decided, but I was thinking on a much wider spectrum than that." "Such as -- " Karl gestured toward the box with his head. "What was he doing here, anyway? What has he done? What was he trying to do?" "You'd better go on," said Wheeler; and for the very first time said something in a way that suggested diffidence. "You've had a while to think about all this, I--" and almost helplessly, he spread his hands. "I can understand that," Karl said gently. "Up to now I've been coming on like a hired lecturer and I know it. I'm not going to embarrass you with personalities except to say that you've absorbed all this with less buckling of the knees than anyone in the world I could think of." lple technique you learn in elementary algebra. It has to do with the construction of graphs. You' place a dot on the graph where known data put it. You get more data, you put down another dot and then a third. With just three dots -- of course, the more the better, but it can be done with three -- you can connect them and establish a curve. Thi curve has certain characteristics and it's fair to extend the curve a little farther with the assumption that later data will bear yqaout." "Extrapolation." "Extrapolation. X axis, the fortunes of our late boss. Y axis, time. The curve is his fortunes -- that is to say, his influence." "Pretty tall graph." "Over thirty years." "Still pretty tall." "All right," said Karl. "Now,' over the same thirty years, another curve: change in the environment." He held up a hand. "Tm not going to read you a treatise on ecology. Let's be more objective than that. Let's just say changes. Okay: a measurable rise in the mean temperature because of GO # and the greenhouse effect. Draw the (iurve. Incidence of heavy metals, mercury and lithium, in organic tissue. Draw a curve. Likewise chlorinated hydrocarbons, hypertrophy of algae due to phosphates, incidence of coronaries... All right, let's superimpose all these curves on the same graph." "I see what you're getting at. But you have to be careful with that kind of statistics game. Like, the increase of traffic fatalities coincides with the increased use of aluminum cans and plastictipped baby pins." "Right. I don't think I'm falling into that trap. I just want to find reasonable answers to a couple of otherwise unreasonable situations. One is this: if the changes occurring in our planet are the result of mere carelessness -- a more or less random thing, carelessness -- then how come nobody is being careless in a way that benefits the environment? Strike that. I promised, no ecology lessons. Rephrase: how come all these carelessnesses promote a change and not a preservation? "Next question: What is the direction of the change? You've seen speculative writing about 'terraforming' -- altering other planets to make them habitable by humans. Suppose an effort were being made to change this planet to suit someone else? Suppose they wanted more water and were willing to melt the polar caps by the greenhouse effect? Increase the oxides of sulfur, eliminate certain marine forms from plankton to whales? Reduce the population by increases in lung cancer, emphysema, heart attacks and even war?" B oth men found themselves looking down at the sleeping face in the coffin. Karl said softly, "Look what he was into -- petrochemicals, fossil fuels, food processing, advertising, all the things that made the changes or helped the changers -- " "You're not blaming him for all of it." IF "You don't think he was tiying to change a whole planet just so he could be comfortable in it." "No, I don't think so -- and that's the central point I have to make. I don't know if there are any more around like him and Epstein, but I can suppose this: if the changes now going on keep on -- and accelerate -- then we can expect them." Wheeler said, "So ,what would you like to do? Mobilize the world against the invader?" "Nothing like. that. I think I'd slowly and quietly reverse the changes. If this planet is normally unsuitable to them, then I'd keep it so. I don't think they'd have to be driven back. I think they just wouldn't come." "Or they'd try some other way." "I don't think so," said Karl. "Because they tried this one. If they thought they could do it with fleets of spaceships and super-zap guns, they'd be doing it. No -- this is their way and if it doesn't work, they can try somewhere flse." Wheeler began pulling thoughtfully at his lip. Karl said softly, "All it would take is someone who knew what he was doing, who could command enough clout and who had the wit to make it pay. They might even arrange a man's life -- to get the kind of man they need." And before Wheeler could answer, Karl took up his scalpel. "I want you to do something for me," he saidsharply in a new, commanding tone -- actually, Wheeler's own. "I want you to do it because I've done it and I'll be damned if I want to be the only man in the world who has." Leaning over the head of the casket, he made an incision along the hairline from temple to temple. Then, bracing his elbows against the edge of the box and steadying one hand with the other, he drew the scalpel straight down the 'center of the forehead and down on to the nose, splitting it exactly in two.v Down he went through the upper lip and then the lower, around the point of the chin and under it to the throat. Then he stood up. "Put your hands on his cheeks," he ordered. Wheeler frowned briefly (how long had it been since anyone had spoken to him that way?), hesitated then did as he was told. "Now press your hands together and down." The incision widened slightly under the pressure, then abruptly the flesh gave and the entire skin of the face slipped off. The unexpected lack of resistance brought Wheeler's hands to the bottom of the coffin and he found himself face toface, inches away, with the corpse. Like the liings and kidneys, the eyes -- eye? -- passed the median, very slightly reduced at the center. The pupil was oval, its long axis transverse. The skin was pale lavendar with yellow vessels and in place of a nose was a threadfringed hole. The mouth was circular, the teeth not quite radially placed; there was little chin. Without moving, Wheeler closed his eyes, held them shut for one second, two, and then courageously opened them again. Karl whipped around the en of the coffin and got an arm around Wheeler's chest. Wheeler leaned on it heavily for a moment, then stood up quickly and brushed the arm away. "You didn't have to do that." "Yes, I did," said Karl. "Would you want to be the otrfy man in the world who'd.gone through that -- with nobody to tell it to?" And after all, Wheeler could laugh. When he had. finished he said, "Push that button." "Hand me that cover." Most obediently Cleveland Wheeler brought the coffin lid and they placed it. Karl pushed the button and they watched the coffin slide into the square of flame. Then they left. way of making a living. It was a good living, but of course he didn't make anything like the bundle he could have made in the city. On the other hand, he lived in the mountains a half-mile away from a picturesque village, in clean air and piney-birchy woods along with lots of mountain laurel and he was his own boss. There wasn't much competition for what he did. What he did was to make simulacra of medical specimens, mostly for the armed forces, although he had plenty of orders from medical schools, film producers and an occasional individual, no questions asked. He could make a model of anything inside, affixed to or penetrating a body or any part of it. He could make models to be looked at, models to be felt, smelled and palpated. He could give you gangrene that stunk or dewy thyroids with real dew on them. He could make one-of-akind or he could set up a producput it briefly, the best there was at what he did. "The clincher," Karl told him (in much more relaxed circumstances than their previous ones; daytime now, with beer), "the real clincher was the face bit. God, Joe, that was a beautiful piece of work." "Just nuts and bolts. The beautiful part was your idea -- his hands on it." "How do you mean?" "I've been thinking back to that," Joe said. "I don't think you stroke that was. It's all very well to set up a show for the guy, but to make him put his hands as well as his eyes and brains on it -- that IF was the stroke of genius. It's likewell, I can remember when I was a kid coming home from school and putting my hand on a fence rail and somebody had spat on it." He displayed his hand, shook it. "A#I these years I can remember how that felt. All these years couldn't wear it away, all those scrubbings couldn't wash it away. It's more than a cerebral or psychic thing, Karl -- more than the memory of an episode. I think there's a kind of memory mechanism in the cells themselves, especially on the hands, that can be invoked. What I'm getting to is that no matter how long he lives, Cleve Wheeler is going to feel that skin slip under his palms and that is going to bring him nose to nose with that face. No, you're the genius, not me. "Na. You knew what you were doing. I didn't." "Hell you didn't." Joe leaned far back in his lawn chaise -- so far he could hold up his "beer and look' at the sun through it from the underside. Watching the receding bubbles defy perspective (because they swell as they rise), he murmured, "Karl?" "Yuh." "Ever hear of Occam's Razor?" "Uiii. Long time back. Philosophical principle. Or logic or something. Let's see. Given an effect and a choice of possible causes, the simplest cause is always the one most likely to be true. Is that it?" "Not too close, but close "Hm. You're the one who used to proclaim that logic is sufficient unto itself and need have nothing to do with truth." "I still proclkim it." "Okay. Now, you and I know that human greed and carelessness are qtiite enough all by themselves to wreck this planet. We didn't think that was enough for the likes of Cleve Wheeler, who can really do something about it, so we constructed him a smogbreathing extra-terrestrial. I mean, he hadn't done anything about saying the world for our reasons, so we gave, him a whizzer of a reason if his own. Right out of our heads." "Dictated by all available factors. Yes. What are you getting at, Joe?" "Oh -- just that our complicated hoax is simple, really, in the sense that it brought everything down to a single cause. Occam's Razor slices things down to simplest causes. Single causes have a fair chance of being right." Karl put down his beer with a bump. "I never thought of that. I've been too busy to think of that. Suppose we were righfl" They looked at each other, shaken. At last Karl said, "What do we look for. now, Joe -- space ships?"  TO The secret of the alien form was the terror it caused! T he village looked peaceful from the hill road, a scattering of houses and fields well within the congestion code limits. I knew it fairly well, merely as a community I had passed through on my rounds. It was typical of Sarus. IVa, which just means it's the fourth planet of a main sequence star with planets, and that Sarus itself is moonless. But aside from that, enough like Old Terra to cause restless people to settle here, despite our # gravity. The extra .# isn't much, of course, but Sarus was settled during the Third Expansion Wave out from Old Terra and they were choosy then. Anyway, in the n generations since then, the Sarans had adapted to the additional gravity, the slightly higher radiation background and the beautiful climate. I say n, because nobody has realty bothered to count. They have been too busy building paradise. And succeeding at least as well as any other human world. Within limits that must be kept. Which is why i'm here. Funny, even though I was born on Novterra, I can almost look at Sarus as home. Which is the proper outlook for a Seeker, if he doesn't carry it to emotional extremes. I don't. And when I do get carried away, some task comes up that requires a Seeker. And most of these are still humanly bad enough to give me back my perspective. Such as a murdered Warranter. I reined in before the stone tower with the bright blue pennant, swung off my adjusted horse. Freida was riding my shoulder as usual, her tail curled up around my left ear. The man who came out to greet me gave her a casual glance, then returned his gaze to my gray uniform. "Seeker?" "Of course," I responded. "Healer MacDonald?" The other nodded. "I have been waiting for you. The Warranter's body is in stasis and I have performed the tasks you required of me." He pursed his lips. "Murder, quite definitely. With a hunt thrower, left in. It was a ceremonial thrower, an heirloom." "You recognize the pattern?" "Yes. But there is something else I must tell you. The thrower belonged to Freeman Delver. And he -- " "What, Healer?" I could sense the trouble he was having. "He is dead. Suicide." "How long ago?" I demanded, suddenly getting that cold lump spreading through the pit of my stomach, a premonition of trouble to come. "This morning. About two hours after the death of the Warranter ." "You're sure it was suicide?" He nodded. "It was done with a neural massager. Set to overload. It was fused into his hand, and the activation stud had his pore patterns on it." It was a suddenly different scene from the one I'd expected. "You have his body?" "Inside," the Healef answered, nodding. "Are you sure Delver murdered the Warranter?" "I am now. We found the Warranter's stock in his pouch." He sounded sure of himself. "I want to see it." He nodded, turned back in, waving to me to follow. except by accident. He is just a man trained to handle difficulties. And when a man is murdered most villages consider that a difficulty. P could only recall one other that I'd handled. A simple crime of passion. But this one was adding up to lunacy. Which is out of place in the order of paradise, even a human paradise. We passed through the outer hall into the Healer's tech chamber. It wasn't comparable to a med center in a major city, but it was adequate for the needs here and more than an uninformed person might expect to Find in a small village. The Healer waved some viewlights on, pointed out the stasis beds that held the bodies of the Warranter and Freeman Delver. I looked at them, the Warranter's lanky form clad in blue, with a stain of blood above the heart; the freeman's stocky body, contorted with the frozen after-effects of neural overload...Not a pleasant way to die. "Any ideas. Healer? You knew Delver.".! was groping. Just trying to gain time to compose myself. I didn't see death every day. "Yes," and there was a curious eagerness in his voice. "Delver longed to visit the starports, go out from there to the stars. He spoke of it often, revealed his longing to everyone." The other shook his head. "Longing? Nay, some called it lust. An indecent lust. Seeker." "How much was taken?" "Six thousand credits. It is in the pouch," he added, motioning at a purse that lay at the base of the stasis bed. Freida jumped Off my shoulder, padded over to the open pouch. I looked back at the Healer. "Was that everything the Warranter had?" The man shrugged. "We would not know. It was the Warranter's private affair." Of course, that was natural. A warranter was officially a public servant, authorized to make loans, issue travel and identification documents and perform various other minor tasks. He drew his funds from the people of his village, but it was part of the nature of his impartiality that none except he and his sector superior were actually aware of the total amount he had available for his people. But that amount, # credits, was a bit large. "Six thousand credits in ready funds? A very prosperous community." The Healer flushed. "We pay our tithes. Seeker," he said snappishly. I smiled. "No criticism intended, Freeman MacDonald. It was rather a compliment." He nodded his acceptance of the apology. "As for your theory, that is enough to buy passage anywhere, with credits left over. But why suicide then? The freeman could hardly have guessed that a Seeker would be so close." MacDonald shrugged. "Repentance. He realized once the pasIF sion was past that he could not accept the future he had plotted. And with murder already done, his own death was the Easiest way." I nodded, not allowing my doubt to appear on the surface. But penance by suicide seemed unlikely on the part of someone who had the capability to murder an innocent Warranter in the first plaee. Freida mewed and I leaned down to allow her to regain her perch. "Aye, six thousand," she whispered into my ear. Freida's also mated at nearly #. Vocal abilities also added. Her tail pointed out a lump of fur that lay huddled at the foot of the Warranter's stasis bed'. I stepped closer, recognized it. An adjusted cat, similar to Freida. And stunned with something. I looked back at MacDonald. "Is that cat the Warranter's?" "Aye. It wouldn't leave his, form and was setting up a racket. So I mercifully stunned it." If my hunch was right the merciful act was directed more at the Healer's comfort, but that was a minor factor. "Can you wake it?" "Of course. But why? It'll just start the wail again." Smiling humorlessly, I said, "I'll suffer it. Healer. Now." My patience was growing thin. Mumbling to himself, the Healer grabbed a syrihge, moved over to the cat. Jabbing the needle into the side of the animal, he shot a dose of drugs into it. After a few seconds it started to move slowly, abruptly shook itself and started to howl. The Healer smiled with satisfaction. over the cat. Freida hissed something at it and the other animal shut up. I gathered it into my hands, brought it near my face. "Speech, little one?" I asked gently. The cat stared back fearfully, but refused the offer. I nodded at Freida and she hissed some more, communicating in that strange tongue that is neither human lingua nor natural catspeech, but the mingling of both. It took a few minutes and I realized the original conditioning had held well. The cat would not easily betray its master. But finally Freida convinced it. "Aye, milord?" it squeaked. "Did you see your master die?" wondering as I asked if the cat had the intellect to handle the concepts involved. "Aye, to my sorrow, milord. My life forliis, if I had the chance, milord. But no!" I could recognize from long contact with Freida that the cat was close to hysteria. "Who, little one? The man who lies here beside your master?" The animal turned to stare, Hnally trembled. "Aye, milord." I switched tack. "Did you help your master?" "Aye," the cat responded eagerly. "Much did Grayfur help master. I was his memory." And that was the explanation for a simple Warranter's owning an adjusted animal. The cat was a bio-comp specialty, capable of handling all the Warranter's bookkeeping in its special brain. But that also made things simpler. "Grayfur, how much did your master have now?" "How much? Forbidden!" The response was not entirely dictaUd by loyalty; the cat was probably programedta respond to certain combinations of words that I didn't know. But the answer I wanted could be reached without them. "Not to me," I said gently. "How much, Grayfur?" The cat seemed to ponder the idea and Freida hissed at it once more. Then, it all but nodded. "Fifteen thousand credits free, twenty thousand in storage." The Figures rolled out of the cat, ihd I laughed at the incongruity. But then it hit me. "Fifteen thousand credits free? Is Grayfur sure?" The cat seemed astonished. "Grayfur never failed master. Am right." I let the cat jump to the floor, motioned for Freida to join it, then turned to MacDonald. "Was there any left at the Warranter's house?" "No," he answered abruptly. I realized he was taken aback by the adjusted cat. He probably had known of them, but never dreamed that one lived in his own village. Just like any other villager. "Then are you sure Delver only had six thousand credits?" "Yes," he answered nervously. "Why?" I djidn't answer him, merely looked to Freida. "Freida, could the shock, have disturbed Grayfur so that he forgot his numbers?" The other cat snarled at the insult, but Freida considered it carefully. Then her tail arched a careful negative. I looked back at MacDonald. "Healer, nine thousand credits are missing. Where could they have gone?" The man seemed paralyzed. "Stolen off Delver's body? Or what?" I demanded. He must have thought I was accusing him, for he turned pale. "No, Seeker. No one here was alone with the body. That is, not until the money was counted. If credits were stolen from Delver, it was by some outsider." I stepped toward him, grasped his shoulders, applied pressure. "Healer, the truth. I'll have it one way or another." I read the answer in his eyes and IF no words were necessary. He was telling the truth as he knew it. No one else had taken the money. But # credits were missing. A thought struck me and I looked back at the cats. "Grayfur, how much did the thief take?" The cat hesitated, then said, "The man took all of it. Fifteen thousand credits -- and the master's travel kit and spare suits." I froze. It had been a wild chance. Out of the mouths of babes, surely. But from the mouths of cats? A travel kit and suits? Why? Where were they now? During that two hours between the deaths, something had happened. A n outside sound intruded. The buzzing of my communicator in the horse's pack drifted to me. A quick glance around to make sure MacDonald stayed put and I ran out to my horse. Pulling out the com, I cut into the channel. "Seeker Carver here." "Dan, this is a general alert. A tamper wagon is on the loose. Picked it out in Grailey, about Fifteen kilometers from where you are. Escaped me. It's a job from outspace. Mech-assisted wagon. He ditched his horses and Just moved out on hover. Heading your way. Can you try for an intercept?" The urgency of the present task caught at me, but a tamper wagon overrode it by far. To have one of those loose in this area could disrupt every village in the sector and wreak havoc with planning. "Affirmative, Harlan. Will try. Do you have a fix?" "No tech Fix, but I got a smelly on the wagon before he got out of range." "Right. I'm riding. Warrior, so that'll be enough. I'll contact you afterward. Carver out." I turned back, saw the Healer staring at me. "'What is it?" "Tamper wagon. Amateur bioarchitect. I've got to go after him." "But what about this?" "It can wait. I'll be back." MacDonald shook his head. "I still don't understand. That wagon was probably the one that came through here a few weeks ago. I checked him out and he wasn't working." I looked at him coldly. "A potential tamper wagon came through here and you didn't repo.rt it?" "He wasn't working. All his equipment was torn down." "Maybe. And maybe not. But I'll handle you later. I have to move out now. Just be sure not to fool with anything here, eh?" I niounted Warrior and Freida came out, joined me with a leap. I gave the. Healer one more stare. wheeled Warrior around and sped out of the village, moving through the crowds that had gathered at the commotion. I leaned down over the horse's ear. "All right. Warrior, a smelly. Find it. And speed, boy, speed." He whinnied his understanding and his nostrils flared as he soaked in the odors of the surrounding countryside. The smelly would penetrate for kilometers. And Warrior would locate the scent of the tiny beast at the range. Abruptly he signaled his success and broke into his fastest gallop, twice as fast as any horse on Old Terra had ever run. The adjusted animals could top any natural. Leaving the guidance to him, I reached back into my pack, drew out the regulation weapon I'd been issued so long ago. It was deadly, buUamperers could be, too. It was a long ride and a hard one. The wagon hadn't headed directly toward me, that was certain. But the tamperer couldn't suspect that another Seeker was after him. And though he should have known better from his trade, he probably ignored the capabilities of our adjusted animals. Being from outspace, and with a mech-assisted wagon, he had to be one of those arrogant roamers from a techoverrun world. He had chosen an easy hit for a few months. And instead had found a trap closing on him. Sarus was ready for his kind of operation. on from the side, running silently, maneuvering in the best operations manner he had mastered. The gene-runner was unsuspecting, loafing along. We drew to within fifteen meters before I issued a warning. The owner's head popped out of the control section, looking startled. He ducked back, started to slow. Warrior continued the approach. Then, abruptly, the tamperer flung the wagon toward us, trying to run us down. But Warrior's reflexes were too good. The horse jumped out of range of the first attack. I forgot about warnings and took careful aim from atop Warrior's heaving back. It cost me two shots to mangle the wagon's fancy hovergear and send it crashing into the ground at thirty kilometers per hour. It tumbled over, righted itself and lay there, smoke beginning to drift out of the damaged hull. I kept the laser out as I approached. Freida moved ahead to scout and signaled that the man was out of action. I dismounted and moved inta the slightly crumpled vehicle. It was fancier than it looked. There was no danger of explosion -- the automatic damage control systems had taken over. I straightened out his IF limp form in a chair, sat down myself. Freida brought the com and I opened the channel as I watched him, I "Harlan, come in. I've got him." There was a pause. Then Harlan replied. "Have any trouble, Dan?" I looked at the unconscious form, the disarrayed interior, and smiled thinly. "A little. He tried to run me down and failed. I had to stop his wagon with my laser." There was concern in Harlan's voice as he said, "I assume you're all right. How about the wagon, was it destroyed? And what about the man?" "His damage control managed to prevent any serious damage. Just a lazed hoverstructure. He's unconscious, but no serious injuries. I'H hold him until you can get here." "Right. Where are you?" I hesitated, looked out at the surrounding area. "About two kilometers away from Mount Grover. Almost straight out the main valley, just about to the river crossing. Good enough?" "Yeah. We're not too far away. Be there in a half-hour, maybe less." "Okay, out." I stuck the com into my belt, looked at the tamperer once more. He was still out, so I detailed Freida to watch him, began to look around the wagon. I 'M NO biotech, but a seeker is trained to recognize the equipment, just so he can catch operators like this one. He had the usual run of equipment, most fitted for disappearing into hull recesses to foil inquisitive people. I saw an electronscope, laser scalpel, standard diagnostic bank and a comp for handling gene manipulation and restructuring. Along one wall ran a few small compartments, translucent but obvious. I stepped over to the growth tanks, thumbed the controls of one. A side panel faded into transparency and I saw the developing form of a small cat, with some obvious physical alterations. A novelty item, I thought disgustedly. I thumbed it back to translucence, turned away. At the back of the wagon was a wall of books and tapes, with a viewer, I stepped over to it, scanned the shelves and felt mildly impressed. He was no incompetent, even if he had taken the route of the traveling tamperer. The texts were impressive, ranging far beyond the requisites for biotech alterations. Then a set of controls on the viewer caught my eye. I looked closer, pressed an inconspicuous button. The wall began to slide apart until a larger growth chamber stood revealed. Large enough for a man. And suddenly I realized this man had stopped at nothing. Freida hissed a warning that was cut off by a yelp of pain. I whirled, my laser ready, found myself confronting the tamperer, who also held a pocket laser, aimed right at me. "All right. Seeker, drop it." I stared at him, shook my head slowly. "I'm not crazy. We've got a deadlock here. You fire, and you're dead. Same here." I paused. "After all, the penalty for tampering isn't death." I looked at him, studying, his reaction. "Are you that anxious to see me dead?" He frowned at me. Then the laser clattered to the floor. "Logical, Seeker. And correct. What will you do?" "Enough. Confiscate your wagon, deport you to pjace of origin and alert authorities there of your operations." He laughed. "Yes, just enough. No grudges? No fanatical desire to see me punished severely?" I shrugged. "To what purpose? We wouldn't accomplish anything. As'long as you're not operating here any more we're satisfied. What's your name?" "Jansen, Jacob Jansen." He looked past me to the revealed growth chamber. "I see you've found my pride and joy." I turned carefully to. look at the chamber once more. "Artificial growth?" "Of course. But even better than that. Cloning, Seeker, with any deviations you want on the way. Care for a liVing robot that looks just like you? One that'llobey any order and be your twin?" He laughed. "I can do it. You know. I'm good enough to set up legal practice on some inner world." I gave him a frozen stare. "Then why don't you?" "No thrill. I'm not a researcher. Besides, they frown on cloning -- and cloning fascinates me. To watch a man grow, become an artificial twin." Laughing again, he continued, "Makes me feel like a god." li ing if he could read my dislike. I wasn't reacting only to his attitude, but to something subtler. There was an air of phoniness even about his confession of sin. I wanted to step outside for some clean air, but something about his words had caught in my mind, was demanding attention. Then I hadJt. "Have you done any human cloning around here?" "Yes. Why, do you want to pick it up?" He smiled. "I'll cooperate. It's at a village about six kilometers from here. A...dull affair -- but one guy there has almost a cosmopolitan view." I heard the sound of horses, knew Harlan had arrived. I kept IF my icy attention fixed on the generunner. "Does the name Delver sound familiar?" He frowned, searching his memory, then, nodded. "Yes. I think that was the man who contracted the clone. He lived alone. I suppose he enjoyed the idea of a slave that looked like him. Why, have you got the clone already?" I nodded woodenly. "I think we have. It was found dead this morning, supposedly a suicide. Of course, they assumed it was Freeman Delver himself, but now I think that's doubtful." He nodded gleefully. "So that's what he had in mind. Clever man. Really fooled his neighbors, eh? What is he, a joker? Or did he just want to go away secretly?" Harlan ducked in. I ignored him. "Yes, he wanted to get away secretly, Jansen. And you're in trouble. Bad trouble." "For the death of a clone? Uhuh. That battle was fought in courts long ago. It may not be legal to make them, but I can't be held criminally responsible for someI shook my head. "Not the clone. You're accessory to the murder of a warranter and theft. Your clone made it directly possible for the murder to be committed, because it gave Delver the perfect escape." The tamperer was ho longer smiling. Disbelief etched his face. "You're joking. Seeker. Aren't you?" "I wish I could laugh with you. But Delver was clever. And he took advantage of your helpfulness. That's the real danger of your kind, Jansen. And that's why human cloning is generally outlawed." I looked at Harlan then, saw another Seeker named Corey behind him. "Take him, Harl. And be careful -- he has something to escape from. Log him in as accessory to murder, for starters."  Harlan nodded, pulling out his laser. Behind him, Corey duplicated the action, moving around to get a clear view of Jansen. Harl asked quickly, "What about you?" "I don't know. Any starships in Grailport?" "Three, as far as I know. Two freighters and a regular liner." "Scheduled liftoffs?" I demanded. "The liner's scheduled for tomorrow night. One freighter for two days from now. The secotid freighter's a freelance, with no schedule." "For hire?" I asked. "If a man's credits?" Harlan nodded. "Probably. Why?" "I've got a fugitive who wants to get offplanet. Probably as fast as possible. And he's got nine thousand credits on him, plus stolen travel papers. He'll probably try for that freighter. He planned well, so I'll bt he's on his way to the port now." "There's been no transport routing to Grailport for the last two days. He must be either on foot or riding." I nodded. "With Warrior, it would take about ten hours to reach Grailport. With a normal mount, maybe sixteen or twenty. Our man has had since some time early this morning, probably.' That means he could be almost there, if he had spares and discarded the tired mounts. And from the way he's operated so far. I'd bet that's just what he did." "You'd better contact headquarters in Grailport. They can at least get a couple of monitors to pick him up." "You reach them, eh, Harl? The man's name is Delver. He'll look normal, because he stole Warranter travel papers. Tell the people to be careful -- I don't know what this guy is capable of." T he genefunner grunted. I looked at him. "Look, Seeker, I didn't know what this Delver was going to try. I mean, a little fun with cloning, that I can understand. But murder, theft. Well -- " I swore at him. "You've done your'damage." He shook his head. "You don't understand. I'm trying to help. There's something you should know." "Get to the point if you have one." He reddened. "Well, he asked for a novelty item, too. And I found one he went wild over. A Tavarean morphlizard." He gulped. "A programed one, with alterations. Input electrodes and a hand control unit. The units have preset limitations on shape changes, but they can be' eliminated in a minute if you know what you're doing. This Delver has a handbook on them. And to top it, the lizard is programed for total loyalty to the owner." I froze; shut my eyes and mind against a hurt that flared up abruptly. I heard Harlan through a haze, asking in a puzzled voice, "A morphlizard? What is it?" From somewhere I got the strength to overcome my reflexive reaction, looked at him soberly. "The dominant life form of Tavare, the second planet of Novterra's system. Through some evolutionary quirk the lizards are capable of altering their shape, abilities. Outlawed on any other planet because of their dangerous potential. And this tamperer has given one to Delver." The tamperer broke in nervously: "Look, I didn't know. I thought IF he was just another groundmucker, maybe a. little more sophisticated, but nothing much. A modified morphlizard wouldn't be that dangerous to one of these muckers. But if he's the way you describe him, well -- " He let his voice trail away. I left the wagon, unable to stand the sight of the fool any longer. Harlan followed me out. "You leaving now?" I glanced at him, shivered. "No. I'll have to contact HQ myself to alert them. Suddenly I'm the expert." I grabbed my com, dialed Grailport. The expert, I thought, a lonely terror in my guts. After a moment of static a cool voice came on: "Seeker headquarters, Grailport." "Route me through to Frasier, quickest. This is Carver." A hum came as the transfer was effected, then my local chief was on the circuit. "Sir, I'm working on a murder. Nothing simple. Involves a tamperer. The killer is on the loose, probable heading for Grailport." "Is that all? You want monitors to pick him up?" "Not unless they can handle morphlizards," I said, fighting to keep my voice even. "The tamperer fixed him up with one. Fully adapted. There are controls on the lizard's changes, but they can be eliminated easily." Frasier swore softly. "No one here has had any experience." He was voicing something I already knew. The morphlizards were rarely seen outsystem. Ignoring the yammering fear that came bubbling up out of my past, I said in a voice drained of emotion, "Then I think it's my job." "No. Not even if he's threatening to destroy Grailport. You can't risk it." His voice held concern. He had read my file, knew my background. He knew, in effect, why I was a Seeker on Sarus, why I had left Novterra. And he was going to protect me if. I'd let him. And for a moment I wanted to scream yes, jump the first ship outbound. But something caught in my gut and I knew I couldn't. "Sir, that other experience was a long time ago. I'm different -- conditions have changed. And you can't send a totally unprepared man against a morphlizard. At least I'm somewhat cued In -- if anyone is." I listened to silence for seconds, as he weighed my decision against available alternatives. When he sighed I knew he'd accepted my judgment at least temporarily. "As you wish. Seeker. What aid can I give you?" "Put that starport in stasis. Seal any ship In port and don't let anyone through. And send a flitter for me. I'll have to get there quickest." "ir your man knows what a morphlizard can do seals won't hold him forever." VI know that. But he's not an expert -- he may even be harmless. I can't be sure. In any case, those precautions should hold him until I can get there." I hesitated. "After that it's up to me." "Right. The Hitter's on its way and I'll have that port sealed tighter than a molectronic lock. Contact me when you reach Grailport. I'll check the rest of Sarus for experienced men." "Check, sir. Carver out." I cut the channel, left my beacon on to guide the flitter to mer Harlan was staring at me. "What was that all about?" walk away. But I forced myself to answer -- answer as best I could. "I was once stationed in Tavare," I said. "During the standard labor draft period. I was a maintaintenance tech at a virtually automated station. I was taking care of a small group of researchers working at the station. There was a girl, Karin. We became quite close." I shut my eyes, started to relive the incident, as I had so many times before. "One day, without warning, there was a run of morphlizards. Thousands, some of them rather ancient. More than any man had ever seen before. They overran the station, breaking through our external security screens as if they were paper. It gave the science boys additional clues to liz life cycles later, but during that run we just retreated to the security room of the station and hid. We were terrifiedfrom the very first. Sontething about a reaction the lizards can evoke' in men. Anyway, after two days they even got past the heavy-duty screens and started to trickle through the security room. Half of us died from physical wounds and simple fear. Naked fear. We still don't know why it happened like that, what fates chose the doomed ones. But half died and the rest of us were raving madmen by the time the lizards vanished." I laughed bitterly. "And that's exactly what they did. Vanished, almost every lizard. Dispersed, back to where they came from, almost as if on a signal. They left behind a wrecked station and shattered people." Harlan asked, "And the girl -- Karin?" "She was one of the dead ones. Eventually, rescue teams arrived from Novterra. They put the survivors in rehab and eventually most of us recovered. Sort of. But we had to get out of the system. The proximity of Tavare was a little too much." I looked at Harlan, IF wondered if he really understood. "You know the worst, Harl? What I just told you is just words plugged into my memory by psych technicians. Everything that could flip me again has been carefully filtered out of my mind. The words left don't mean anything -- I don't have the equipment left to communicate the reality of what happened. I have no way of transmitting my real feelings to you. Just second-hand phrases psych thinks are safe." I laughed. "And sometimes I wonder if they didn't leave too much." "And now you're going to face another lizard?" "No choice, Harl." "I'll take your place, Dan. You don't have to risk the contact." I looked at him, wondering if he actually realized what he was offering. And knew he didn't. I couldn't tell him what it was like -- though I could have added that the scientists knew that the lizards could produce a fear reaction in men, transmitted by telepathy, or some other mechanism nobody yet understood. And that was beside their actual physical capabilities, which were incredible. But to say Tnore would have been pointless; he still wouldn't have comprehended the reality of the lizards. So I just smiled, shook my head. "I have to try, Harl," I said. "And not just because no one else knows what I know. See, I've been running from them! The psych people said that was the only way I could insure my sanity." I could feel myself trembling. "But I've merely managed to block the insanity off in a corner of my mind. And a man shouldn't live like that." I looked up at the stars that were beginning to glow through as dusk settled over the countryside. We didn't get here by pretending that dangers didn't exist, by hiding from them. Men have to face their fears sooner or later if they're going to keep on being men. It's part of our makeup." "Are you taking the risk for a point of philosophy? Just to prove something?" I looked at him. "Sort of. To prove something to myself. Everybody's got to some time." He nodded soberly. "I suppose. Good luck, Dan." F eet scuffled behind us. I turned to confront the tampered Jansen. "Is there something you want?" He nodded. "Yes, something I'd like to do. That morphlizard -- well, I know how dangerous it can be. And maybe I could help you a little." I looked at him more closely. His attitude seemed to have changed and this one rang a little truer than the previous facade. "How?" "Fve read the research reports on them. It's possible to freeze their polymorphic structure temporarily. There's an organic substance from Tavare that will do so if it makes contact in sufficient quantity. I think it originates from a biological enemy of the morphlizards. It's the natural evolutionary reaction to their power. A balance. And I think I can make some for you." I felt sudden hope flare within me, hated it. Overcoming the paralysis, I demanded, "What range?" "The reaction depends on amount of contact.Forexample, most of a dose of about ten target squarely. And I'm afraid the stuff will have, to be thrown. The sudden impact of its being fired from any sort of projectile weapon would conceivably start a decomposition reaction." Throw it. With human inaccuracy, you'd have to be close to be sure. Well within the range of tie lizard's fear-evoking ability. All of which meant it was still my job. I looked at him once more. "How long will it take you to prepare it?" He shrugged. "Maybe a halfhour.  can do it right now, if you'll let me." I nodded. "Let's go." I followed him into the wagon. He stepped toward the lab section, began swinging equipment out into the open. He grabbed a tape, inserted it into a small viewer. Frowning, he began to manipulate the equipment. It was mostly automatic, programing the addition of chemicals to a nutrient broth, maintaining a certain temperature and pressure, checking contaminants. Abruptly he began to speak, without looking at me. "Actually, there are two counteragents for the polymorphic ability. The one I'm working on is the venom of the guredu. You've heard of it?" I nodded vaguely. "Ranks among the most dominant species on the planet. A reptile -- and in partial competition with the morphlizards." "Essentially correct. They spit their venom accurately up to about five meters. Rather astonishing. But that's the only reason they can exist in competition with the lizards. That's true for every competing species. For instance, there's a small mammal similar to the Terran rodents. The lizards can't harm it. At first researchers suspected some fort of scent, but experiment eliminated that possibility. So now they're working on a theory of telepathic defense. They think the rodent can freeze the lizard's changing ability by controlling its mind. The hypothIF esis is borne out by examination of the mammal's brain. It has certain structural peculiarities. Anyway, it goes that way all along the ecological spectrum. What Tavare's evolution produced, it also found defenses for." He smiled. "We can duplicate this venom, but nowhere nar as handily as the guredu makes it. And there's another agent we can't quite duplicate. It's a glandular secretion of the lizard. Right up to maturity this secretion is present, preventing any polymorphism. But at maturity, the glands responsible start dying and the polymorphism comes in. In fact, one can use that point to define maturity." "You don't sound like a tampered" I said. "You sound more like a researcher!" Ill H e finished a detail, spun to glare at me. "I'm not. I don't have the ability. I found that out long ago. I can understand -- but not create. So forget it!" His vehemence surprised me and I realized I had touched a sore point. I smiled, trying to soothe him. "All right. But there's teaching, you know. The more you say, the more I think you don't belong here, tampering for fun." He turned back to his work. "They don't use teachers any more. A computer makes a memory scan of some great scientist, and a reaction tape -- then simulates his form. It and others like it do all the teaching, over vidcoms. There's no place for humans in the prqcess. I considered his words, then said softly, "Maybe not on the central worlds. But here we still use human teachers. And I can name a dozen other worlds that do. Maybe not as advanced as your techplanets, but moving along nicely. And if we're too primitive here, Novterra also uses men. There's a place for a person who wants one." He was concentrating on the lab equipment. I wasn't sure whether he'd heard me or not. He finished punching out a programing combination for his lab computer, then turned away. "The rest is automatic." I followed him out of the wagon. He stepped outside, looked around. He spoke to the countryside but his words were directed at me. "What are you, a psych-tech? Are you just trying to torture me? Damn it, I gave up fantasies too long ago to start swallowing them now." "I meant what I said. Safus can use intelligent men. Almost any outworld can." I paused. "And you might find that your creativity is better here. There's something about the tech worlds, about their crowdedness, their hectic pace, that bothers some men. It's as if some men adapted to the tech civilization as it developed -- and others didn't and have had to leave it really to achieve. I'm not making promises. But if you're not a tamperer at heart, consider the possibilities. A good word from a Seeker can do wonders." He looked at me and his cynicism was gone. "I'll think about it. Seeker. Thanks for the offer." He stepped off into the darkness. I should have followed a tampered made sure he didn't attempt to escape. But I didn't think this one would. I turned back to the wagon, found Harlan staring at me, a strange smile on his face. "Do you think I should follow him?" I demanded. He shook his head. "I think you found a chink in his armor. Maybe you should go into rehab work." I laughed. "A Seeker is trained to handle difficulties, Harl." "Of course. I wasn't criticizing you, Dan. I wish I could do as much for a tamperer. If s sure better than just deporting them." He frowned. "About this morphlizard. Can it actually change shape?" Oh, damn, can it! But I kept my voice calm. "Yeah. The researchers didn't believe it at first either. But there's documented proof." Besides my personal experience. "It can even increase its mass to a certain extent by absorbing organic compounds and simple molecules from the atmosphere. That's one reason for the intense interest in it. If we could duplicate its synthesizing abilities we'd make a big jump over current techniques. But the secret is nothing solely structural -- something in the lizard's entire physiological system enables it to change. A dead morphlizard is just a hunk of decaying protoplasm, with perhaps a greater percentage of undifferentiated cells than most creatures. It's a mystery that we can't solve yet." As usual, a question in the right area had triggered the dry lecture; it was a means of psychological defense, the psych-techs said. They were probably right. "You sound as if you remember quite a bit about them." "Just what the research team learned before the incident," I snapped at him. "Oh, hell, Harl, I'm sorry. But I've completely avoided the subject for some time. That was part of the intended rehab program." "Okay, Dan." After a moment he asked softly, "Before that incident, what job were you heading for?" I shrugged. "Biological research. But they decided afterward that it was better to dissociate myself completely from the previous life. It was only by a narrow margin IF that they decided it was safe to let me keep my memories." "So you became a Seeker on Sarus?" "That's what my psych prorde indicated was a good alternative. And Sarus was far enough away to let me forget. Although sometimes I wish they had wiped my memories. "And let you start over? What was that you gave me about men facing their dangers, not hiding from them?" ' I laughed bitterly. "Maybe it was just hot air. I think most men would rather erase a problem than face it -- if they could." "But we don't evolve that way, eh?" He was goading me, and I recognized the fact. And I suddenly realized why. "Maybe you should go into rehab," I commented dryly. A n alarm rang from within the wagon. Jansen appeared out of the night and we entered the vehicle together. He took four cubes from the apparatus, handed them to me. "One'll do the job. Press the stud and throw it. They're contact explosion cubes. When they hit, the cube will shatter and spread the agent around. That way even a near miss might slow the lizard down. Hopefully, with four you'll have an adequate safety margin." I stared at the cubes for a few seconds, then dropped them into a pocket. "One cube will do the job?" "Yes. A full dose will freeze its polymorphic ability and paralyze t" .I thought of facing a lizard, depending on those four small cubes, and shuddered. "Are you sure these will work?" He returned my glance. "The venom works. Seeker. If the synthesis is accurate it will freeze the lizard. Otherwise I can't promise anything. If you don't trust me -- " he let it trail off, then smiled thinly. "I guess I can't blame you if you don't. But I think the synthesis was good and that the stuff will work." "That's good enough. After all, venom or not, I have to face the lizard." A shrill whine rose outside, growing louder until it culminated in the thump of the flitter setting down. I stepped out, started to walk to it, paused to look back. "Jansen, want to come along?" He looked surprised. Then; "I'd like to." Harlan said, "I'll come along, too. Corey can handle the situation here, wait for the pick-up van. All right with you?" I smiled. "Sure, why not? I can use all the support I can get." the time the flitter reached Grailport. Patterns of light beckoned us to the ground below. Off to jone side of the city was a dark area, one that usually was alive with lights and activity. But the starport had been sealed off, as I requested. The flitter homed on the signal that Frasier was casting for us -- he'd gone into the field to handle the coordination of this task. We swooped down and I recognized the warehouse area outside the perimeter of the port. As I stepped out of the flitter, Frasier walked up. "Hello, Carver." "Hello, sir." "We caught him coming into the city. A couple of rni?nitprs tried to pick him up, against orders." "What happened?" The chief shook his head. "One is dead and the other is under sedation -- in the hands of the psych lads. The freeman knows how to use the lizard fully, it appears. We managed to corner him in this warehouse when he couldn't get through the screens around the port. We've got him screened in now." "It's only a matter of time until he finds out what a lizard can do to a defensive screen. And then there'll be no choice. We'll have to destroy him and the lizard." I swallowed quickly. "And the only sure way is a nuke. Anything less the lizard will handle." "You intend to go in there?" "Yes, sir." He considered. Then: 'T suppose it's worth the risk. But you're taking a man in with you." I looked at him, knew he was decided on this. But I had to try. "Chief, it's too dangerous. To throw in a man who's had no experience with a lizard is insane." His eyes were hard, unyielding. "I'm not known for being insane. Carver," he rasped. "And I'm not going to risk your going in there alone. What makes you think your experience gives you any immunity? I've thought it over -- and I've checked with psych. And they say just the opposite will be true, if anything. How do you know you won't freeze up, become a madman again at the first contact with the lizard?" I could feel myself flushing, but I didn't know whether from anger or shame. I choked down an angry retort. "All right, if that's the way you feel. Who's going with me?" "Since Harlan's here, he'll go." We both looked at him, watched the surprise flash across his face. Then grimness replaced it. "Good," he said. "I'll go in with you." He was sorry, that much was obvious. But so was I. Anybody who hadn't felt the impact of a lizard couldn't begin to understand what it was like. Not even the psych teams. It was impossible to communicate the reality. None of them IF really understood what Harlan would be walking into. Then a monitor was standing before me, holding out a survival suit. The chief coughed. "These might be able to protect you from some of the physical danger." the precaution. The lizard could come up with a transformation that would cut through the suit like plastic. And even then the physical danger was the lesser evil, i didn't know exactly what effect a single lizard would have on a man, except that one monitor had been hurt mentally. But any uncertainty didn't harbor good possibilities as far as I could see. I found my hand , drifting toward the blaster that hung at the belt of the survival suit, jerked it away. I looked at Harlan. "Harl, no matter what, don't kill Delver if that lizard is still loose." "Why not?'.' "Because at present it's bonded to him by implanted loyalty restricting it. Delver is a limiting factor. Without him the lizard could be even worse." I turned away, glanced at the chief. "If we don't come out soon you'll know we failed. This'Ij either be done fast or not at all." "I know. And Carver -- " I looked back. "Don't you think you should give half those cubes to Harlan?" I looked at him for an eternity, then nodded woodenly. I reached into my pocket, pulled out the cubes and gave Harlan two. "Use them carefully. They're the best chance we've got." "I know," he said. But did he really? Few men can truly accept helplessness against an animal when full precautions have been taken. I turned away, motioned for Harlan to follow me. We approached the warehouse, a towering building that stretched five stories into the night sky, totally enclosed by the protective screens Frasier had erected. I held the blaster in my left hand, a cube in my right and signaled for the Seekers to cut the screens and let us enter. Frasier gave us a thumbsup and a faint odor of ozone came as the screens blinked off. We ran forward, through the open doors to the warehouse, and felt the screens snapping on behind us, as closely timed as possible. I glanced at Harlan, saw him studying the inferior:' ' "Remember," I cautioned him, "it's not a standard capture. Try for paralysis; Only use the blaster if you have to. Take care." "You, too, Dan." The interior was dark, and I had no idea where fhe controls were, so I switched onto infrared scanning with the suit. Not as good as visual, but better than being blind. Containers were stacked iii rows throughout the warehouse. At the center, the open space extended to the ceiling, past levels of cargo storage, with a cargo lift dimly visible at the top. I paused and decided to risk revealing our whereabouts; it would take too long to search the entire place. "Delver," I called out. "Come on out and surrender. This isn't going to do you any good.' ' Nothing happened at first. Then an eerie cry echoed through the building. felt myself freezing up, then I saw the dark form 'arrowing out of the upper reaches of the building, resembling a Saran dart bird enlarged five times. Waves of fear rolled across me, set up sympathetic vibrations that shook me to the core. I stood facing the naked core of truth. I couldn't fight the lizard! I forced my head around, saw that Harlan was on his knees. His blaster lay forgotten on the floor and the cubes had vanished. The stink of the terror within me triggered buried memories, scenes from the past. God, the scenes! I saw Karin again, kneeling, falling, her face filled with madness. I saw her die again, looking to me for help, saw her form being ripped apart by the hordes of lizards that had overrun the station. She had died hours before -- what they were destroying was the mindless hulk that remained. But still I shouted and cried. She was mine! They had no right! I could feel the last vestige of reason being torn out of my soul, feel the pain, the cancerous fear eating at my gut. Nightmares? Yes, nightmares! Shapes, all the shapes of the Lord of Creation -- but all with the same soul. The soul of fear, the soul of the lizard! Then the realpresent lizard struck, slicing through the protective suit and tracing a cut along my arm. The past vanished and I saw the lizarddart bird sweep up into the darkness once more. And suddenly I was enraged, maddened by the existence of the creature that had taken Karin away and driven me from my home. No matter that the creature was different; his soul was the same. My rage fought my fear and overwhelmed it. I was not sane but I did not fear -- a weird, berseker state possessed me. I looked down, saw the blaster I'd dropped. Stooping, I gathered it into my grasp once more. I groped along the suit belt, pulled out a set of flares. Triggering them, I tossed them high into the air, where they hovered on antigrav devices, switched from infrared to visual and looked at Harlan for help, but IF he still kneeled on the floor. I dismissed him from my mind and looked for the damned lizard again. I caught sight of it, wheeling in great arcs above my head. I kneeled, took careful aim, and fired the blaster. Energy cut through the air, searing at the lizard's form. With knother enraged cry, it dropped toward me. I fought to keep the blaster trained on it, and the bird started to burn. I'd won the first battle. The lizard shimmered, transformed itself into a form immune to blaster fire. But the creature was not basically intelligent -- and the new form could not fly. It plummeted toward the ground, still bathed in the blaster's discharge. At the last moment it adapted to the dual threat and shimmered into a new form. It hovered scant meters above the ground, a large flying reptile with glistening scales that shed blaster fire with little damage. T hen it was on the ground and I cut off the blaster. It shimmered into a new form, a mere five meters away. Convulsively I triggered a cube, threw it. The projectile hit the floor near the creature and exploded, scattering venom onto the lizard, which uttered a cry of pain and charged at me, shimmering again. The transformation took longer, seemed forced; the venom was taking effect. I recognized the new form; a Tavarean marsh lion, huge, muscled and full of claws. I threw my second cube as it neared me; it hit the lizard squarely and the venom splashed across it. Screaming again, ft kept on charging, moving clumsily. I fired at it and it started to shimmer, but more slowly still. It was a bare two meters away when it finished and the lion was still there, but with gleaming, blaster-proof scales. It jumped at me, claws extended, and I swung away from it awkwardly. I dove at Harlan, knocking him over and fighting to get his cubes. I came up with one. I spun around to face the next charge and was bowled over and carried past Harlan's form by the beast. With savage glee, I grabbed to hang on, stuck my hand down the gaping jaws and triggered the cube. The teeth ripped my hand as I started to withdraw and then the venom took effect. Gradually, almost comically, the life went out of the lizard. It toppled over in slow motion. I shov it off me, stood up and felt the searing heat of a blaster beam slice past me. I fell, rolling aside and scrambling for my blaster. With one motion I had it, aimed it and triggered it. Delver's hand vanished, a second later, his weapon with it. Somehow I managed to keep from turning the beam onto his head, totally destroying him. Instead, as he crumpled, I turned it on the lizard once more. And burned it, even against the protection of the adapted scales. When I was through it was just a burning mass of dead protoplasm, framed in a scorched pit in the floor. I stared at it and strangely felt something missing. My gaze wandered over to Harlan -- he had lost consciousness during our brief struggle, but seemed intact. And then I realized what was missing. When I had turned the blaster on the lizard, finishing it, I had finished burning the fear out of me, without realizing it. ven the core of Insanity that had lingered over the years was gone. I thought, of Karin and felt pain. But the pain I could bear, with the cushion of the reality of the present. I dropped the blaster, looked back, at Delver, saw him lying on the floor. No bleeding; the blaster cauterized its own wound. Just a large part of his arm missing and he was in shock. I felt no pity, instead a kind of joy that I knew was alien to the principles of the Seekers. But it was good that Delver lay there, and not some innocent clone of him, like the one that had died to start this whole affair. I turneiaway, stumbled toward, the door and signaled for the Seekers to open up the screens. I faced Frasier with a slight grin on my face, knew it was ridiculous. I walked into his arms. "You were wrong. I got it, and Delver too. Harlan's in there, unconscious. I got the lizard. You were wrong -- and the psych boys too. Wrong." He didn't seem upset at his mistake -- instead he looked quite joyful. I pondered on it as I collapsed into his arms, facing the darkness without fear. collapse was simply a combination of the lizard's venom and the psychological after-effects of the battle. I was out of medical care inside of a day. So was Harlan. Jansen was waiting too. He didn't mention it, but I remembered our conversation. I'm going to speak for him at the trial and he'll probably get off lightly. As I said, we need teachers out here. And Seekers, too. Who are trained to handle difficulties. In the end, even our own.  C rj I q  o f a d d r s s n o t : I I c n t'ors O'" othf?r sub scr' pT i o ri corspo n d o M c L should hv sent To L w Murphy Gaiaxy Moqaz;n' : j !) Eo'.t # STr oi'T, N' w Yo' U N  ; GO  # IF  I al father John Henderson we may now have trailed a clutch of scientist Arpad Arkabarana was saying in his rattling voice. "And that lair may . not be a mountain thicket or rain forest or swamp, but these scrimpy.red clay flats. I would give my life for the success of this quest, but it seems that such sacrifice should have a more magnificent setting." "It looks like a wild goose chase," the eminent scientist Willy McGilly commented. But no, Willy was not downgrading their quest. He was referring lo the wild geese that rose about them from the sedges of the flats with clatter and whistle and honk. This was a flightway, a chase of theirs. There were hundreds of them if one had the fine eyes to pick them out from the backgroumi. "Mud Geese," Willy said. "We don't see as many of them as when I was a boy." "I do not, and i am afraid that I said the eminent scientist Dr. Velikof Vonk, stroking his -- (no he didn't, he didn't have one) -- stroking his jaw, "and yet this is the thing that I also have most desired, to find this missing link finally, and to refute all believers in the other thing." "We can't see the chain for the links," said Willy McGilly. "I never believed any of them were missing. There have always been too many of them for the length of the chain. That's the trouble."  search of them," said Arpad. "I've pretty well probed all the meager ribs of the world in that travel. My fear has always been that I'd miss them by a trick -- or that in some unaccountable "ay I wouldn't know them when I found them. It would be ironic if we did find them in such a place as this -- not a wild place, only a shabby and overlooked place." "My own fear has been that when I finally gazed on one I would wake with a start and find that I had been looking in a mirror," said Velikof. "There must be some symbolism here that I don't understand. What is your own anticipation of them, Willy?" "Oh, coming back to people I've always liked. There used to be a bunch of them on the edge of my home town," Willy McGilly said. "Come to think of it, there used to be a bunch of them on the edge of every home town. Now they're more likely to be found right in the middle of 'every town. They're the scrubs, you know, for the bottoming of the breed." "What are you talking about, Willy?" Arpad asked sharply. What they were all talking about E very town in the south part of that county has a shadow or secondary. There is Meehan, and Meehan Corners; Perkins, and Perkins Corner; Boomer, and Boomer Flats. The three eminent scientists were driving the three miles from Boomer to Boomer Flats looking for the bones and hopefully even the living flesh of a legend. It was that of the missing link, of the Abominable Snowcountry there, but the so-called Snowmen have been reported in every sort of climate and countryside. The local legend, recently uncovered by Arpad, was that a nonAfrican non-Indian "people of color" was living in the neighborhood of Boomer Flats -- between the sand-bush thickets and the river. It was said that they lived on the very red mudbanks of the river and that they lived a little in the river itself. Then Dr. Velikof Vonk had come onto a tape in a bunch of anthropological tapes, and the tape contained sequences like this: "What do they do wheh the river floods?" IF "Ah, they close their noses and mouths and ears with mud and they lie down with big rocks on their breasts and stay there till the flood has passed." "Can they be taught?" "Some of the children go to school, and they learn. But when they are older then they stay at home, and they forget." "What sort of language do they talk?" "Ah, they don't seem to talk very much. They keep to themselves. Sometimes when they talk it is just plain Cimarron Valley English." "What do they eat?" "They boil river water in mud clay pots. They put in wild onions and greenery. The pottage thickens then, I don't know how. It gets lumps of meat or clay in it, and they eat that too. They eat frogs and fish and owls and thicket filaments. But mostly they don't eat very much of anything." "It is said that they aren't all of the same appearance. It is even said that they are born, ah, shapeless, and that -- ah -- could you tell me anything about that?" "Yeah. They're born without much shape. Most of them never do get much shape. When they have any, well actually their mothers lick them into shape, give them their appearance." "It's an old folk tale that bears do that." "Maybe they learned it from the bears then, young fellow. There's quite a bit of bear mixture in them, but the bears themselves have nearly gone from the flats and thickets now. More than likely the bears learned it from them. Sometimes the mothers lick the cubs into the shape of regular people for a joke." "That is the legend?" "You keep saying' legend. I don't know anything about legend. I just tell you what you ask me. I'll tell you a funny one, though. One of the mothers who was getting ready to bear happened to get hold of an old movie magazine that some fishers from Boorner had left on the river edge. There was a picture in it of the prettiest girl that anyone ever saw and it was a picture' of all of that girl. This mother was tickled by that picture. She bore a daughter and she licked her into the shape and appearance of the girl in the movie magazine. And the girl grew up looking like that and she still looks like that, pretty as a picture. I don't believe the girl appreciates the joke. She is the prettiest of all the people, though. Her name is Crayola Catfish." "Are you having me, old fellow? Have those creatures any humor?" "Some of them tell old jokes. John Salt tells old jokes. The Licorice Man tells really old jokes. And man, does the Comet ever tell old jokes!" "Are the creatures long-lived?" "Long-lived as we want to be. The elixir comes from these flats, you know. Some of us use it, some of us don't." "Are you one of the creatures?" "Sure, I'm one of them. I like to get out from it sometimes though. I follow the harvests." T his tape (recorded by an anthropology student at State University who; by the way, has since busted out of anthropology and is now taking hotel and restaurant management) had greatly excited the eminent scientist Dr. Velikof Vonk when he had played it, along with several hundred other tapes thatHiad come in that week from the anthropology circuit. He scratched his -- (no he didn't, he didn't have one) -- he scratched his jowl and he phoned the eminent scientists Arpad Arkabarananand Willy McGilly. "I'll go. I'll go, of course I'll go," Arpad had cried. "I've travand should I refuse to go sixty? This won't be it, this can't be it, but I'll never give up. Yes, we'll go tomorrow." "Sure, I'll go," Willy McGilly had said. "I've been there before, I kind of like those folks on the Flats. I don't know about the biggest catfish in the world, but ahe biggest catfish stories in the world have been pulled out of the Cimarron River right about at Boomer Flats. Sure, we'll go tomorrow." "This may be it," Velikof had said. "How can we miss it? I can almost reach out and scratch it on the nose from here." "You'll find yourself scratching your own nose, that's how you'll miss it. But it's there and it's real." "I believe, Willy, that there is a sort of amnesia which has prevented us finding them or remembering them accurately." "Not that, Velikof. It's just that they're always too close to us to see." So the next day the three eminent scientists drove over from TTown to come to Boomer Flats. Willy McGilly knew where the place was, but his pointing out of the way seemed improbable and Velikof was mor inclined to trust the information of people in Boomer. There was a difficulty. People kept saying, "This is Boomer. There isn't exactly any place called Boomer Flats." Boomer Flats wasn't on any map. It was too small even to have a post office. And the Boomer people were exasperating in not knowing about it or knowing the way to it. "Three miles from here, and you don't know where it is?" Velikof asked one of them angrily. "I don't even know that it is," the Boomer man had said in his own near anger. "I don't believe that there is such a place." IF Finally, however, other men told the eminent scientists that there sort of was such a place, sort of a place. Sort of a road going to it too. They pointed out the same improbable way that Willy McGilly had pointed out. The three eminents took the road. The flats hadn't flooded lately. The road was sand, but it could be negotiated. They came to the towii, to the sort of town, in the ragged river flats. There was such a place. They went to the Cimarron Hotel which was like any hotel anywhere, only older. They went into the dining room for it was noon. It had tables, but it was more than a dining room. It was a common room. It even had intimations of old elegance in Uued pier mirrors. There was a dingy bar. There was a pool table, and a hairy man was playing rotation with the Comet on it. The Comet was a long gray-bearded man (in fact, comet means a star with a beard) and small pieces were always falling off him. Clay-colored men with their hats on were playing dominos at several of the tables, and half a dozen dogs were in the room. Something a little queer and primordial about those dogs! Something a little queer and primordial about the whole place! But, as if set to serve as distraction, a remarkably pretty girl was there. She might have been a waitress. She seemed to be waiting, either listlessly or thoughtfully, for something. Dr. Velikof Vonk twinkled his deep eyes in their orbital caves. Perhaps he cogitated his massive brain behind his massive orbital ridges and he arrived, by sheer mentality, at the next step. "Have you a menu, young lady?" he asked. "No,", she answered simply, but it wasn't simple at all. Her voice didn't go with her prettiness. It was much more intricate than her appearance, even in that one syllable. It was powerful, not really harsh, deep and resonant as caverns, full and timejess. The girl was big-boned beneath her prettiness, with heavy brindled hair and complex eyes. "We would like something to eat," Arpad Arkabaranan ventured. "What do you have?" "They're fixing it for you now," the girl said. "I'll bring it after a while." There was a rich river smell about the whole place, and the room was badly lit. "Her voice is an odd one," Arpad whispered in curious admiration. "Like rocks roiled around by water, but it also has a touch of springtime in it, springtime of a very peculiar quality." "Not just a springtime; it's an interstadial time," Willy McGilly stated accurately. "I've noticed that about them in other places. It's old green season in their voices. green season between the ice." The room was lit only by hanging lamps. They had a flicker to them. They were not electric. 'There's a lot of the gaslight era in this place," Arpad gave the opinion, "but the lights aren't gaslights either." "No, they're hanging oil lamps," Velikof said. "An amusing fancy just went through my head that they might be old whale-oil lamps." "Girl, what do you burn in the hanging lamps?" Willy McGilly asked her. "Catfish oil," she said in the resonant voice that had a touch of the green interstadial time in it. And catfish oil bums with a claycolored flame. "Can you bring us drinks while we wait?" Velikof of the massive head asked. "They're fixing them for you now," the girl said. "I'll bring them after a while." Meanwhile on the old pool table the Comet was beating the hairy man at rotation. Nobody could beat the Comet at rotation. "We came here looking for strange creatures," Arpad said in the direction of the girl. "Do you know anything about strange creatures or people, or where they can be found?" "Yoii are the only strange people who have come here lately," she told them. Then she brought their drinks to them, three great sloshing clay cups or bulbous steins that smelled strongly of river, perhaps of interstadial river. She set them in front of the eminents with something like a twinkle in her eyes -- something like, but much more. It was laughing lightning flashing from under the ridges of that pretty head. She was waiting their reaction. Velikof cocked a big deep eye at his drink. This itself was a feat. Other men hadn't such eyes, or such brows above them, as had Velikof Vonk. They took a bit of cocking, and it wasn't done lightly. And Velikof grinned out of deep folk memory as he began to drink. Velikof was always strong on the folk memory bit. Arpad Arkabaranan screamed, rose backwards, toppled his chair, and stood aghast while pointing a shaking finger at his splashing clay cup. Arpad was disturbed.  Willy McGilly drank deeply from his own stirring vessel. "Why, it's Green Snake Snorter!" he cried in amazement and delight. "Oh, drink of drinks, thou art pleasure beyond expectation! They used to serve it to us back home,but I never even hoped to find it here. What great thing have we done to deserve this?" He drank again of the wonderful splashing liquor while the spray of it filled the air. And Velikof also drank with noisy pleasure. The girl righted Arpad's chair, put Arpad into it again with strong IF hands, and addressed him powerfully to his cresting breaker. But Arpad was scared of his lively drink. "It's alive, it's alive," was all that he could jabber. Arpad Arkabaranan specmlized in primitives, and primitives by definition are prime stuff. But there wasn't, now in his moment oC weakness, enough prime stuff in Arpad himself to face so pleasant and primitive a drink as this. The liquid was sparkling with bright action, was adequately alcoholic, something like bock beer, and there was a green snake in each cup. (Velikof in his notebook states that they were green worms of the species vermis ebrius viridis, but that is only a quibble. They were snake-like worms and of the size of small snakes, and we will call them snakes.) "Do get with it, Arpad," Willy McGilly cried. "The trick is to drink it up before the snake drinks it. I tell you though that the snakes Can discern when a mail is afraid of them. They'll fang the face off a man who's afraid of them." "Ah, I don't believe that I want the drink," Arpad declared with sickish grace. "I'm not much of a drinking man." So Arpad's green snake drank up his Green Snake Snorter, noisily and greedily. Then it expired -- it breathed out its life and evaporated. That green snake was gone. "Where did he go?" Arpad asked nervously. He was still uneasy about the business. "Back to the catfish," the girl said. "All the snakes are spirits of catfish just out for a little ramble." "Interesting," Velikof said, and he noted in his pocket notebook that the vermis ebrius viridis is not a discrete species of worm or snake, but is rather spirit of catfish. It is out of such careful notation that science is built up. "Is there anything noteworthy about Boomer Flats?" Velikof asked the girl then. "Has it any unique claim to fame?" "Yes," the girl said. "This is the place that the comets come back to." "Ah, but the moths have eaten the comets," Willy McGilly quoted from the old epic. T he girl brought them three big clay bowls heaped with fish eggs, and these they were to eat with three clay spoons. Willy McGilly and Dr. Velikof Vonk addressed themselves to the rich meal with pleasure, but Arpad Arkabaranan refused. "Why, it's all mixed with mud and sand and trash," he objected. "Certainly, certainly, wonderful, wonderful," Willy McGilly slushed out the happy words with a mouth full of delicious gloop. "I always thought that something went out of the world when they cleaned up the old shantytown dish of shad roe. In some places they cleaned it up -- not everywhere. I maintain that roe at its best must always have at least a slight tang of river sewage." But Arpad broke his clay spoon in disgust. And he would not eat... in search of it but he didn't know it when he found it. He hadn't any of it inside him, so he missed it. One of the domino players at a near table (the three eminents had notic this some time before but had not fully realized it) was a bear. The bear was dressed as a shabby man. He wore a big black hat on his head. He played dominoes well; hs.was winning. "How is it that the bear plays so well?" Velikof asked. "He doesn't play at all well," Willy McGilly protested. "I could beat him. I could beat any of them." "He isn't really a bear," the girl said. "He is my cousin. Our' mothers, who were sisters, were clownish. His mother licked him into the shape of a bear for fun. But that is nothing to what my mother did to me. She licked me into pretty face and pretty figure for a joke; and now I am stuck with it. I think it is too much of a. joke. I'm not really like this, but I guess I may as well laugh at me just as everybody else does." "What is your name?" Arpad. asked her without real interest. "Crayola Catfish." But Arpad Arkabaranan didn't hear or recognize the name, though it had been on a tape that Dr. Velikof Vonk had played for them, the same tape that had really brought them to Boomer Flats. Arpad had now closed his eyes and ears and heart to all of it. The hairy man and the Comet were still shooting pool, but pieces were stiH falling off the Comet. "He's diminishing, he's breaking up," Velikof observed. "He won't last another hundred years at that rate." Then the eminents left board and room and the Cimarron Hotel to rumored to live in that area. Abominable Snowman; for the Hairy Woodman, for the Wild Man of Borneo, for the Sasquatch, for the Booger-Man, for the Ape-Man, for the Bear-Man, for the Missing Link; for the ninefbot-tall Giant things, for the living Neanderthals. It is believed by some that all of these beings are the same. It is believed by most that these things are no thing at all, nowhere, not in any form. And it seemed as if the most were right, for the three eminents could not find hide nor hair (rough hide and. copious hair were sup(osed to be marks by which the queer folks anywhere along the red bank of the Cimarron River. Such creatures as they did enIF counter were very like the shabby and untalkative creatures they had already encountered in Boomer Flats. They weren't an ugly people. They were pleasantly mud-homely. They were civil and most often they were silent. They dressed something as people had dressed seventy-five years before that time -- as the poor working people had dressed then. Maybe they were poor, maybe not. They didn't seem to work very much. Sometimes a man or a woman seemed to be doing a little bit of work, very casually. It may be that the red-mud river was full of fish. Something was splashing and jumping there. Big turtles waddled out of the water, caked with mud even around their eyes. The shores and flats were treacherous, and sometimes an eminent would sink into the sandmud up to the hips. But the broadfooted people of the area didn't seem to sink in. There was plenty of greenery (or brownery, for it had been the dusty weeks) along the shores. There were muskrats, there were even beavers, there were skunks and possums and badgers. There were wolf dens and coyote dens dug into the banks, and they had their particular smells about them. There were dog dens. There were coon trees. There were even bear dens or caves. But no, that was not a bear smell either. What smell was it? "What lives in these clay caves?" Velikof asked a woman who was digging river clams. "The Giants live in them," she said. Well, they were tall enough to be giants' caves. A nine-footer need hardly stoop to enter one of them. "We have missed it," Arpad said. "There is nothing at all to be found here. I will travel farther, and I may find it in other places." "Oh, I believe we are right in the middle of it," Velikof gave the opinion. "It is all around us, Arpad, everything you wanted," Willy McGilly insisted. But Arpad Arkabafanan would have none of the muddy water, none of the red sand or the red sand caves, nothing of anything here. The interest had all gone out of him. The three of them went back to the Cimarron Hotel without, apparently, finding a primitive creature or missing link at all. They entered the common room of the hotel again. Dominoes were set before them. They played listlessly. "You are sure that there are no odd creatures around this place?" Arpad again asked the girl Crayola Catfish. "John Salt is an odd creature and he comes from this place," Crayola told them. "The Licorice Man is an odd creature, I suppose. So is Ape Woodman. He used to be a big-time football player. All three of them had regular-people blood in them. I suppose that's what made them odd. They were almost as odd as you three creatures. And the Comet playing pool there is in odd one. I don't know what kind of blood he has in him to make him odd." "How long has he been around here?" Velikof asked. "He returns every eighty-seven years. He stays here about three years, and he's already been here two of them. Then he goes off on another circuit. He goes out past the planets and among the stars." "Oh? And how does he travel out there?" Velikof asked with cocked tongue and eye. "With horse and' buggy, of course." "Oh there, Comet," Willy McGilly called. "Is it true that you travel out among the stars with horse and buggy?" "Aye, that I do," the long graybearded man named Comet called back, "with a horse named Peegosh and a buggy named Harm a. It's a flop-eared horse and a broken buggy, but they take me there." "Touch clay," said Crayola Catfish, "for the lightning." T hey touched clay. Everything was of baked clay anyhow, even the doihinoes. And there had been lightning, fantastic lightning dashing itself through every crack and cranny of the flimsy hotel. It was a lightning brighter than all the catfish-oil lamps in the world put together. And it continued. There was clattering sequence thunder, and there was a roaring booming sound that came from a few miles west of the thunder. The Giants , came in and stood around the edges of the room. They were all very much alike, like brothers. They were tall and somber, shabby, black-bearded to the eyes, and with black hats on their heads. Unkempt. All were about nine feet tall. "Shall I sound like a simpleton if I ask if they are really giants?" Velikof questioned. "As your eyes tell you, they are the giants," Crayola said. "They stay here in the out-of-the-way places even more than the rest of us. Sometimes regular people see them and do not understand that they are regular people too. For that there is scandal. It was the scent of such a scandal, I believe, that brought the three of you here. But they are not apes or bears or monsters. They are people too." "They are of your own kindred?" Velikof asked. "Oh, yes. They are the uncles, the old bachelors. That's why they grow tall and silent. That's why they stand around the edges of the room. And that is why they dig themselves caves into the banks and bluffs instead of living in huts. The roofs of huts are too low for them." IF "It 'would be possible to build taller huts," Willy McGilly suggested. "It would be possible for you, yes," Crayola said. "It would not be possible for them. They are set in their ways. They develop a stoop and a gait because they feel themselves so tall. They let their hair grow and overflow, all over their faces and around their eyes, and all over their bodies also. They are the steers of the species. Having no children or furniture, what can they do but grow tall and ungainly like that? This happens also to the steers of cattle and bears and apes, that they grow tall and gangling. They become bashful, you see, so sometimes it is mistakenly believed that they are fierce." The roaring and booming from west of the thunder was becoming louder and nearer. The river was coming dangerously alive. All of the people in the room knew that it was now dark outside, and it was not yet time to be night. The Comet gave his pool cue to one of the bashful giants and came and sat with the eminents. "You are Magi?" he asked. "I am a magus, yes," Willy McGilly said. "We are called eminent scientists nowadays. Velikof here also remains a magus, but Arpad has lost it all this day." "You are not the same three I first believed," the old Comet said. "Those three passed me several of my cycles back. They had had word of an Event and they had come from a great distance as soon as they heard. But it took them near two thousand years to make the trip and they were wor ried that myth had them as already arriving long ago. They were worried that false Magi had anticipated them and set up a preventing myth. And I believe Jhat is what did happen." "And your own myths, old fellow, have they preened you, or have you really been here before?" Willy McGilly asked. "I see that you have a twisty tongue that turns out some, really winding myths." "Thank you, for that is my intent. Myths are not merely things that were made in times past. Myths are among the things that maintain the present in being. I wish most strongly that the present should be maintained. I often live in it." "Tell us, old man, why is Boomer Flats a place that the comets come back to?" Willy said. "Oh, it's just one of the post stations where we change horses when we make our orbits. A lot of the comets come to the Flats-Booger, Donati,' Encke, #c and Halley." "But why . to Boomer Flats on the little Cimarron River?" Willy inquired. "Things are often more than they seem. The Cimarron isn't really so little a river as you would imagine. Actually it is the river named Ocean that runs around all the worlds." "Old Comet, old man with the pieces falling off you," Dr. Velikof Vonk asked out of that big head of his, "can you tell us just who are the under-people that we have tracked all around the world and haVe probably found here no mor than seventy miles from our own illustrious T-Town?" "A phyz like you have on you, and you have to ask!" the old Comet twinkled at Velikof (a man who twinkled like that had indeed been among the stars -- he had their dust on him). "You're one of them, you know." "I've suspected that--fer a long time," Velikof admitted. "But who are they? And who am I?" "Wise Willy here said it correctly to you last night. They are the scrubs who bottom the breed. But do not demean the scrubs. They are the foundation. They are human as all of us are human. They are a race that underlies the other several races of man. When the bones and blood of the more manifest races grow too thin, then they sustain you with the mixture of their strong kinship. The mixing always goes on, but in special eras it is more widespread. They are the link that is never really missing, the link between the clay and the blood." "Why are they, and I myself if I were not well-kempt and eminent, sometimes taken to be animals?" Velikof asked. "Why do they always live in such outlandish places?" "They don't always. Sometimes they live in very inlandish places. Even wise Willy understands that. But it is their function to stand apart and grow in strength. Look at the strong bone structure of the girl there! It is their function to invent form -- look at the form her mother invented for her. They have a depth of mind, and they have it particularly in those ghostly areas where the other races lack it. And they share and mingle it in those sudden motley ages of great achievement and vigor. Consider the great ages of Athens, of Florence, of Los Angeles. And afterward, this people will withdraw again to gather new strength and bottom." "And why are they centered here in a tumble-down hotel that is like a series of old daguerrotypes?" Willy McGilly asked. "Will you tell us that there is something cosmic about this little old hotel, as there is about this little old river?" "Aye, of course there is, Willy. This is the hotel named Xenodocheion. This is the special center of these Xenoi, these strangers, and of all strangers everywhere. It isn't small. You merely see but a portion of it at one time. They center here to keep out of the way. Sometimes they live in areas and neighborhoods that regularized IF humanity has abandoned (whether in inner city or boondock). Sometimes they live in eras and decades that regularized humanity has abandoned. For their profundity of mind in the more ghostly areas, they have come to have a cavalier way with time... What is wrong with that? If regular people are Finished with those days and times, why may not others use them?" The roaring and booming to the west of the thunder had become very loud and very near now, and in the immediate outdoors there was heavy rain. "It is the time," the girl Crayola Catfish cried out in her powerful and intricate voice. "The flash flood is upon lis and it will smash everything. We will all go and lie down in the river." All the Boomer Flats people began to follow her out: the Giants, the eminents, everybody. "Will you also lie down in the river. Comet?" Willy McGilly asked. "Somehow I don't believe it of you." "No, I will not.That isn't my way. I will take my horse and buggy and ascend above it." , "Ah, but Comet, will it look like a horse and buggy to us?" "No, it will look quite other, if you do chance to see itt" "And what are you really. Comet?" Velikof asked as they left him. "What species do you be-' long to?" "To the human species, of course, Velikof. I belong to still another race of it, another race that mixes sometimes and then withdraws again to gather more strength and depth. Some individuals of us withdraw for quite long times. There are a number of races of us in the wide cousinship, you see, and it is a necessity that we be strangers to each other for a good part of the time." "Are you a Saucerian?" "Oh Saucerian be damned, Velikofl' Herma means chariot or it means buggy; it does not mean saucer. We are the comets. And our own mingling with the commonalty of people hasalso had quite a bit to do with those sudden incandescent eras. Say, I'd like to talk with you fellows again some time. I'll by. this way again in about eighty-seven years." "Maybe so," said Dr. Velikof Vonk. "Maybe so," said Willy McGilly. T he eminents followed the Boomer Flats people to the river. And the Comet, we suppose, took his horse and .buggy and ascended out of it, Odd old fellow he was, pieces falling off him. He'd hardly last another hundred years. The red and Mack river was in surging flood wi(h a blood-colored crest bearing down., And the Flats -- they were just too flat. The flood would be a mile wide here in one minute and everywhere in that width it would be deep enough and swift enough to drown a man. It was near dark, near the limit of roaring sound. But there was a pile of large rocks there in the deepening shallows. Plenty of rocks -- at least one big heavy rock for every person. The Boomer Flats people understood what the rocks were for, and the Giants among them understood. Two of the eminents understood. One of them, Arpad, apparently did not. Arpad was carrying on in great fear about the dangers of death by drowning. Quickly then, toxram mud into the eyes and ears and noses and mouths. There is plenty of mud and all of it is good. Spirits of Catfish protect us now! -- it will be only for a few hours, for two or three days at the most. Arpad alone panicked. He broke and ran when Crayola Catfish tried to put mud in his mouth and nose to save him. He ran, and stumbled in the rising waters to his death. But all the others understood. They lay down in the red roaring river, and one of the giants set a heavy rock on the breast of every person of them to hold them down. The last of the giants then rolled the biggest of the rocks onto his own breast. So all were safe on the bottom of the surging torrent, safe in the old mud-clay cradle. Nobody can stand against a surging flood like that. The only way is to lie down on the bottom and wait it out. And it was a refreshing, a deepening, a renewing experience. There are persons, both inside and outside the orders, who make religious retreats of three days every year for their renewal. This was very like such a retreat. When the flood had subsided (this was three days later), they all rose again, rolling the big rocks off their breasts. They cleared their eyes and ears and mouths of the preserving mud. They resumed their ways and days. For Velikof Vonk and for Willy McGilly it had been an enriching experience. They had found the link that was not really lost, leaving the other ninety-nine meanwhile. They had grown in cousinship and wisdom. They said they would return to the Flats every year at mud-duck season and turtle-egg season. They went back to T-Town enlarged and happy. T here is, however, a gap in the Magi set, due to the foolish dying of Arpad Arkabaranan. It is not of Scripture that a set of Magi should consist of only three. There have been sets of seven and nine and eleven. It is almost of Scripture, though, that a set should not consist of less than three. In the Masulla Apocalypse it seems to be said that a set must IF contain at the least a Comet, a Commoner and a Catfish. The meaning of this is pretty muddy, and it may be a mistranslation. There is Dr. Velikof Vonk with his huge head, with his heavy orbital ridges, with the protruding near-muzzle on him that makes the chin unnecessary and impossible, with the great back-brain and the great good humor. He is (and you had already guessed it of thal, an unmissing link, one of that branch of the human race that lives closest to clay and catfish. There is Willy McGilly who belongs (and he himself has come to the realization of this quite lately) to that race of mankind called the Comets. He is quite bright, and he has his periods. He himself is a short-orbit Comet, but for all that he has been among the stars. Pieces fall off him. He leaves a wake. But he'll last a while yet. One more is needed so that this set of Magi may be formed again. The other two aspects being already covered, the third member could well be a regularized person. An older person of ability, an eminent. Or a younger person of ability, a pre-eminent. This person may be you. Put your hand to it if you have the surety about you, if you are not afraid of green snakes in the cup (they'll fang the face off.you if you're afraid of them), or of claymud, or of comet dust, or of the rollicking world between.   For six weeks this summer, beginning June #, Tulone University in New Orleans win sponsor on intensive science fiction wfitkig workshop, continuing the Clarion F workshop founded ond conducted over the pent four yeors by fiobin ScM Wilson. The Tulone Workshop wiH be duected by Jomes SoHb, former eilHor of New Worlds, whose work Ik oppecued in the Goloxy publkotions. Orbit, Quark and numerous cmthologies. Mocmillon hos fust brought out o colect i on of hb short stories, # Few lost Words. The Workshop devotes three to lour hours eoch morning to lectures ond group criticism, the rest of the dcf to writing ond consultotion. Guost lecturers include Mr. Wilson, Somuel #. Delony, Hodon EWson, Domon Knift, Kerto Wlhelm. Tuition, induding housing, b # cmd college credit b given (three semester hours). For informotion ondor opplicotion, eddross: iomes Solb, Tukme #f Writ ing Workshop Dopartment of kngUsh (Arts andStorKOsf Tidone Clnrversrfy NewOrloons,io.#fl Green food as free. Water was pure. But iron had a sickness caught from man! uncle's medicine hut by the flickerflicker of the faint fire (whick the man was alllowed to have, grudgingly, and at high tax, for preparing his simple witcheries) the boy recollected the sound of the taptap beats on the tiny witchery-drum and the sight of the mandrakes lifting the lid of their bark box house and coming out to dance by the Hre, tossing up their small-small scrannel arms and' stamping their tiny-tiny feet to the toom-room, toom-toom, toomtoompetty-toom of the child-sized drum -- then dancing backward and closing the lid on themselves as the last faint pulse beat died away. A small man, his uncle or granduncle (in those days the boy did not distinguish), with a skill in small witcheries and small magics by which he sustained them. And the boy felt proud of seeing what other boys did not see. But most of his memories before the breakaway were ill ones. When he grew big enough to wander from the partly underground medicine hut or the round thatched house where his uncle's sister sat mumbling as she pounded bark or stirred the acorn gruel, the boy learned swiftly enough of how little he had to pride himself in. If you are smaller by far than the smallest of any born in your birth year, if they are smooth of skin and fair of hair and you are dark and your swarthy skin is covered with a nap or bloom of dark hair -- are these things to be proud of? If others have fathers and brothers. who return from the hunt to be greeted by the singing of their women and if your only family connection with it all is when old uncle or old uncle's sister comes stooping up and waits for a bone or an offal to be tossed as to a dog -- is there pride in this? To be sure, he was quicker of body and sharper of mind than any of his birth year; sharp and quick enough to learn that sharpness and quickness won praise only for others and in him were only to be resented. That magic qnd witchery produced fear and that fear oftfen produced respect; but that smallscale magic and witchery caused only small fear -- suspicion, rather -- and hardly ever respect at all. For fear and fears hung over the town like the smoke from the great central Tire on lowering days. Fear that someone was working a witchery, fear of the wild ones of the woods, fear of the king and the tax-gathefs, fear of known magic and of unknown even more. And the boy who was small and sharp and dark and shaggy produced an effect of strangeness which was like the subtle smell of fear -- but was not strong enough to ward off the hates and wraths which this caused -- and besides -- and besides... The affair of the great roan mammont, the rogue mammont, fear of fears and terror of terrors, brought all things to a head; but before that, long-long before that day of blood and death, that day of the hill-that-moved, the treesthat-walk, serpent-snout and spear-teeth and all the other names used when one dares not use the real name: mammont; long before then, when he was very small, there was the token. The token hung on a thong from a peg in a post in his grandmother's hut. For a while it was above his head and he reached for it often while the old one squatted, mumbling, in the sun of the doorfront. He couicf not remember the first time he actually reached it, standing on a stool (probably), but he had a clear recollection of one day scanning it and seeing it and recognizing it. It was carved of wood, roughly but forcefully, in the form of a bear. It had the bear's head and one tooth clearly in the crude snout; it had the bear's paws and legs. But the legs ended in the feet of a man, P erhaps at that time he had not recognized this strangeness; IF he had certainly never seen a bear, for it was not till later that Tall Roke brought in the cub which was partly petted and partly tortured until it was abruptly killed and eaten. Likely at that childtime he did not know that a bear has bear's feet and that although they resemble a man's, yet they are not. Nor was it yet clear to him how subtly manlike, the carving was. But he had the clear recollection of scanning it that one day and becoming aware that the old woman, granduncle's sister and his own grandmother, had come in and was staring at him, on her blear and withered face a look odd even for her on whom odd looks were common. A look of fear and love and awe and horror. Sensing that she was in what was for her a lucid mood, he asked as he pointed, "This -- what?" And she, promptly and matterof-factly, said, "Your father." And as promply thrust awry her snaggle-snarl hair and screamed and rolled her rheumy eyes and tore open the bosom of her barkcloth dress and beat and scratched her withered dugs and wailed and howled and beat her head upon the earthen floor. "Hinna!" she screamed. "Hinna! Hinna!" and, "Hinna-tenna!" Such fits and antics were not so rare as to alarm the boy -- for all he knew, all grandmothers behaved so -- just as, for all he knew, all fathers were carved of wood and hung on leather thongs from posts. But this fit was uncommon severe and he appreciated, in fact, he rather enjoyed the new aspects of it, as he might have enjoyed a new grip noted in a dog-fight. Hinna. So the old man sometimes addressed the old woman. Sometimes the old woman said it as she pointed out the small blue flowers of a plant occasionally brought back with other herbs and roots or leaves and barks from the woods by the old man. So: Hinna was the old woman and hinna was a flower, but he knew that this old woman was not thrown into a fit in order to 'mention either; he did not know how he knew and wondered, mildly, that he knew at all. Logic was here working scarcely above the level of intuition. The old woman shrieked and babbled of something which was "Woe!" but mostly her words were strange and, Hinna-tenna! she screamed. And, "Arnt! Arnt Arnt! And then the old uncle was kneeling beside her, soothing her, calming her, arranging her tattered dress of pounded bark-lining, carrying her -- at last, when her voice was a mere croon or drone -- to the worn-almost-hairless half of deerhide which covered her grass bed. And the old man got up and seemed at a loss as he looked at the boy. Who sensed and instantly seized an opportunity... Pointing to the token on the thong, "My father," he said. "Yes," said the old man, unsurprised. Then he winced. What made the boy say what he next said, still pointing? No knowing -- unless it was unrealized awareness of a connection between strange things enclosed in a space of time -- such as this moment which had just passed, or perhaps still was passing. Pointing to the token he asid, "Arn't. Arn't." "Arn," his uncle said, absentminded correction in his tone. So. Arn was the token which was the bear which was his father and his father had somehow, thrown the old woman into a fit in which Arnt was somehow different. And what else was in the fit which was familiar yet different -- fox something was. Ah. Tenna the boy said; immediately correcting himself: na-tenna . " Without so much as a sigh and in the same flat, abstracted voice in which he would explain to a visitor at the medicine hut the care and feeding of mandrakes or the price of a charm or the manner of a charm (other men whose work was witchery had the better sense to sink their voices and roll their eyes and make at least a few fearful gestures and whisper at least a few words in a doleful whisper, lips to ear. Other witcherers commanded higher prices, too, got amber-grains and goodly pelts, were not content with bones and offals) his granduncle said to him, "Hinna is the cornflower and is also my sister's name. Your grandmother. Was her daughter's name. Your mother. Tenna is a word in the Old Tongue, now archaic, used chiefly for witchery. Spoken sometimes by such relics as myself and sister. Tenna means 'daughter.' Arn in the older tongue is 'bear.' So, now I consider it, Arri'f may be applied to the token, for my sister's daughter said she had it of the bear. As she said, too, she had you. But she was never right in her wits after that and grew worse and we found her drowned." After a moment he nodded once or twice and left the house without more word, confident, apparantly, that he had said everything there was to be said. As, perhaps, he had. T he boy realized, growing old-. er, that often he himself saw sequences and connections where other boys saw none. But just as he could see logic and they not, just so things that seemed sensible to them were senseless and unpredictable to him. More than once he had been stoned away from following hunters, yet today he had been asked -- not allowed, asked -- "Come, honey-dripper, bring us good luck!" And here he was with the rest of them in the high grass and the sun hot upon the earth and on them all so that he could smell it and them and the grass and other things not even seen. Honey-dripper, with a guffaw. It was a name for him. Comb-robber was another. Both meant bear, who stole the honeycomb from the honey tree and ate it, dripping its richness, grubs and wax and all. But comb-robber, applied to him, was merely an ill-name. Honeydripper was less so, was a laughing term, and -- somehow -- referred not exclusively to the bear but also had somethingto do with men and the things men had with women. Tall Roke it was who'd said him this name this day and asked IF him to come; and Tall Roke it was, when another had looked black and muttered, who had briskly and blithely answered, "What? For that some rough fellow tumbled his mad mother and gamed her, saying, 'I'm a bear!' What? A bigger fool than she or you I'd be to think the kid an illbringer for that. Ah no, but that his old uncle's witchery had maybe rubbed off on him a bit, and then a-smells as wild as any beasty and so may cover our own manstinks -- " But as yet the boy could not smell the wild white horses they were hunting -- the swift, manetossing, clever-cunning, clevermad, mad-eyed, red-eyed, wildeyed, wild, white horses -- whom no man's mind or hand had ever yet thought to tame. Three days since, some village stripling, gaming about in the meadows, had found a colt with its leg broken in a mole hole, had swiftly (but, be sure, not without a swifter, fearful lookabout) cut its throat and borne it home. Perhaps one of its marrowbones was still stewing in a pot of spelt; the rest had sure been eaten. But the clever-mad horses of the herd had tracked the lostling down to its place of injury, had seen the blood, had traced the drips of blood as far to the village as even their mad courage cared to go. Since then they had been waging war: trampling crops, attacking cultivators and wanderers with hooves and teeth. So now the menfolk were carrying the war unto the horsefolk. Time was when only the poorest of the poor would have had stone or bone for his weapons. All else had had iron -- had even had arrow or spear-heads to spare, in case of breakage before a wandernain (some called them "shamblenain," but not to their faces) would come trading new irons for old: amber and peltries their fee: taking the broken points with them back to strange and distant Nainland to mend upon their witchery-forge, an art which only the nains had.' As for bronze, that was only a memory, bronze had long since died of the green-sickness. As yet, out here, the deadly rust was moving slowly, but move it did; something ws deadly wrong with iron, and ho nains came; grim was the mood of the distant king, and -- "Hist, now," said Tall Roke. "Mind the plan, now. Drive away the young stallions and the mares with stones, the colts will follow -- cut off the great stallion, and whilst we three engage him from in front, you two cut his tendons from behind." The great stallion, with hamstrings severed on his hind legs, would go down and never rise. Deprived of leader, the other steeds would flee. Tall Roke hawked and spat and grunted. He needed not to point. They had come to the edge of the escarpment and in the near distance of the wide, shallow valley, they saw the horses like wee white clouds . floating in the blue-green sky of grass. For a moment they gazed, the five or six full men, the twice that many striplings and the boy who had no name. Then they spread out widely and began the slow and cautious descent from the rim. Slow, for there was no swift going down that uncertain slope; cautious, because they dared not give alarm to the horse herd. The boy felt for the pouch with the stones in it. The touch was reassuring. Nothing else was. His first hunt. His heart pounding. It had been agreed that any needed signaling would take the form of a ground squirrel's whistling, as this would (at most) arouse the hunger of no creature larger than a fox or hawk. Tentatively the boy formed his mouth to make such a signal. But he never made it. The while he had been keeping a sort of sketch of things in his head. Yonder was the sun. The cliff directly behind. The wind, so. To the right must be the horse herd. A little left of straight ahad were, though now not seen, a clump of thick-boled trees. Beyond that, a low hillock of rusty scrub. A brook. A wallow. A larm, alarm rose so swift in his chest that it choked his breath. Something was wrong. Everything was wrong. He had gone the wrong way -- or -- for he was much too close to the hillock, he could see it now, he could not see the trees, which meant -- and then came the whistle, and the whistle was to have come from Tall Roke and Tall Roke should be that way and the whistle was over this way -- Vertigo took him, he was on both knees and one hand. Earthshake? For the hillock moved and his eyes fled from it and his eyes saw trees walking and someone screamed and screamed -- it was not him, then it war him as it was many others, for by now all knew it was the hill-that-moves, the trees-that-walk, all of them could see the serpent snout that rose up huge and hairy and drank the wind, all could see the flash of spear teeth, all could hear the horrid trumpet scream of the mammont! mammont! mamont! as its tree-huge legs shook the grassy ground in its terrible charge, its trunk sweeping down the grass before it as a scythe, bloody scythe, bloody grass, bloody spears, bloody teeth -- Fear and failing flesh and yet senses still undimmed enough to hear Tall Roke's voice full strong as he shouted, "Hold to the plan! Axe men to the rear whilst I engage to the front -- "  and not we, he did not trust to any others' courage to face the huge red mammont from the front, but still had hopes that some might brave the great beast's hind legs to strike at the lower tendons. Onward the mammoth beast had come, fast, fast, but faster yet ran Tall Roke, passing it -- so swift he might have escaped, had he run in another direction, had such been his intent -- passing it, running backward before it, turning it, darting back and away from it, shouting and feinting his spear at it -- "Strike! Strike!" he shouted -- But no one was there-to strike. No one was there but Tall Roke. One man. One boy. Who shrieked with all the fury of his unformed voice and cast his stones with all the power of his unformed arms. For one fell moment the mammont wavered, rage-reddened eyes darting from man to boy. "Ankles! Ankles! Ah! Strike! IF Ankles!" hoarsely but still hopefully: Tall Roke's voice. But no one struck. And the one man's spear hung in the air, it seemed not so much that he had cast it at the mammont as that the mammont had hurled itself upon the airborne spear: it lanced the line of the great face from tusk-socket to eye-socket: the mammont screamed its pain and rage: again the spear hung in the air: and now -- and this was so puzzling -- Tall Roke himself hung in the air, his fair hair all in a mist about his face -- the python trunk seenried to pse slowly, slowly, slowly, and to descend slowly -- slowly, slowly, and to wrap itself so slowly gently lovingly about the man's neck. T here were flowers in the meadow and bees in the air and then there was a dripping comb of honey and he thrust his paws first into the comb and then into his mouth and its taste was of gold and sweet and strong and delightful beyond the taste of any food tasted before and when it was quite quite gone he licked his paws and he licked the grass it had dripped on and then he went scampering off to where the bushes hung heavy with the full ripe berries and he ate his wonder full of them and T hree of them returned alive to the village and Tall Roke was found alive (though only barely) where the mammont had tossed and gored him but, unaccountably, not trampled him as it had the others. But he, too, was soon dead. Another's head was found in the branches of a tree. Something that was probably his body, for it could be nothing else, was smeared nearby. The horses had vanished. That the great roan mammont was a rogue, all agreed. Only a rogue would travel alone, and there was no sign at all of any other mammont -- and, for that matter, of that one himself -- any more. At first no one in the village said anything but. It has happened. Since the starting of the red-rustsickness of all iron and the increasing wrath of the distant and once indifferent king, since the nains had ceased to visit and the tax exactions had begun to increase, rumors faint as whispers and whispers loud as shouts had been spreading, spreading, spreading. Some great calamity impended. And now it had come. It had happened. Next in the village they began to ask. How did it happen? By this time the boy thought he knew. And there was one other who, he thought, also thought he kfiew. And that meant there was a third who certainly knew. The name of the second was Corm, a lad perhaps a year or two older, eyes gray rather than the common blue, hair not blond and curling but brown and lank, fallow of skin; his father was one of the three subchiefs of the townlet. If Corm had not given the boy mahy good words, that was nothing, no one did that; but he had never given any ill ones at all. The third was a whey-faced, slack-mouthed, slack-limbed shambelton, with an almost perpetuat eruption about the mouth at which he ever picked and which generally bled; a liar and bully and boor, yet well connected -- that is, connected to families of some small importance who, by talking loud and often and big, made that small seem greater. It was one of those moments which seem to have been a part of the center of all things, lying in wait from the beginning. No hint of it before. Old Minna's grandson standing idly watching. Whey-face shambling along. The boy looking at him. Looking up to see Corm watching Whey-face as well. His eyes meeting Corm's. Instantly, as though spoken words had passed between them: It was Whey-face who gave that first, wrong whistle, which would have been done right if Tall Roke had done it at the right time if it should have been done at all; it came from where Whey-face was, and only he would have been fool enough, coward enough to have done it, done it in cowardfool hopes of a reassuring return of it: it was that whistle, illdone, which roused the mammont -- in another moment Tall Roke would have seen it and managed to get us all safe away somehow, but -- Still that same second. Wheyface looking up as though called, catching their glance, understanding, flushing, paling, and at once reacting in his coward way -- not coward-foolish this time but coward-cunning. Pointing at the boy, shouting at the boy, attracting instantly every eye and mind voicing the unvoiced and making clamor become instant fact: "It was him He brought the ill-fate, he brought the mammont there! The bear's bastard with the bear-stink on him! Bear's bastard! Nain's get! Made the mammont come! Curse-bringer! Shag-skin! Killed our men and boys! Him! Him! HimV And, stooping, he snatched up a piece of dried filth, ran and flung it. Then sticks, then stones. Next would-be arrows, axes, spears. No need to inquire, discuss, reason, weigh -- instant, heaxtjLwarrning hatred was quick, easy. ""Bear's bastard! Curse-bringer! Men killed! Bear-stink!" The mammont was gone, the boy remained. He saw Corm's mouth open but neither he nor any heard Corm's word, drowned out in the bullvoiced clamor of all of Whey-face's kith and kin, believing or not believing, belief beside the point, the point: Ours. Support him. Shout loud. Throw something. The boy ran. Terror runs swifter than rage follows. Boys can go where big men cannot -- holes, hollows, runways, dogpaths, shinny up slender trees and drop over palingsThere was hiold uncle crouching by his slender fire. It was an instant. His grandmother's hut. A packet thrust into his hands, the bark bag with the small victuals the old man took with him when he hunted herbs. A hide lifted up to show an opening the boy had never seen before. A burrow, wide enough for him. A patch of light. The village palisades behind him. An echoing that might have been the clamor of the mob. That might have been the beating of his blood; Something clutched in his other hand. He ran. He ran. IF II vFfather' the old uncle had said as he lifted the hide-flap. As it fell and all was dark, the boy heard him say, "It is time." Then nothing but a faint moment of one of the old man's chantings. Arnten, The word lodged like a grub in a honeycomb cell. Arnten. But there was no sign, yet. A faint thought: it is my name. No time for further thought. Arnten. His name. That and escape. For now, enough. A life. A name. In the woods, however, nothing was now asking his name. With a knowledge deeper than thought he avoided the hard-trodden dust of the common path and sank into the thicket like a snake. Behind, he heard the clamor and shouting descend into a single sound on a single note and stay there, like the noise of a swarm of bees hovering and mrumming its one dull note forever. Somehow it sounded im finitely more menacing than any cluster of mere words. Presently the humming-wrwmmg grew louder. Then loud. The earpressed earth echoed like a drumhead. The echo filled the ear and air. Suddenly it was gone and he, Arnten, realized that it had gone a time ago and that he was alone and that if any were still seeking him, they were not doing it here. Slowly he rose up in the thicket like a mist. He gained the path. He snuffed up the breeze. He listened. He was gone. branch. A ground squirrel hopped and scampered, scampered and hopped, vanished from view. There was a smell of wetness, of damp earth and the scent of the sweet green breath of plants. Arnten knew that there were times to look up and times to look down and times to look straight ahead. He saw the bush, he saw through the bush and, a long, long way beyond the bush he saw the boles of several trees but nothing in between. Softly, gently, he pushed the shrubby branches aside. For a moment he paused, holding his breath, listening. There was not, had not been for long, sounds of mob or pack or crowd. There had been no man sounds at all, save for his own. It was improbable that any enemy of his own blood was near. It was not impossible. But he heard no new noise. Only the faint patter of the ground squirrel. Only the same twit-twittwit of the bird on the branch. He slipped past the handful of branches and let them make their own return to their natural positions, only restraining them enough so that they should close without sound. He went on a bit and then he stopped and considered, there in the cool green corridor which for now meant safety. It had been used enough to create a trail, but little enough to allow the bush's growing to obscure the entrance. Perhaps small and dainty deer slipped along this tunnel through the trees. They would not mind sharing it with him. Or perhaps white tiger, dire wolf, snowy leopard, used it in quest of the same small dainty deer. This thought contracted and shook his limbs in a long shudder. He felt and saw the nap of hairs quiver upon his skin and stand up from the fearful flesh. His mind leaped from thought to thought as a spark of fire leaps from one twig to another. Another boy, conceiving the same thought, might find his mind working thought of danger -- beast equals danger -- beast equals panic -- run for your life, without even realizing the process. But his own mind worked thought of danger -- beast equals think about danger -- beast. And he stopped and thought. The thought isiot the thing. And the thought told him that the thing, the great ones among the danger-beasts, were seldom if ever to be found in this'Tjart of Thule at this season of the year; they were to be found (or rather, avoided) farther to the north, where men had less thinned out the game on which they chiefly preyed; winter snows, in which the hooved beasts would flounder and be more easily tracked and trapped and killed, might indeed bring the great killers down. But then again might not. He felt the drum within his bosom slow its clamor and then its beats receded to their normal slow strokes, below the threshhold of perception. He began to go on, but the trail was narrow and something caught upon a branch and held him. He looked down and saw he was still carrying without awareness the two things hastily taken in his flight from town. The bark bag of food, the bear-token upon its leathern thong. It was this last he now had to disengage. It seemed somehow as natural to hang it around his neck as to loop the grass cord of the food wallet from shoulder to hip. So. He had no weapon but he had food, itself a sort of weapon -- was not hunger the chief enemy? He had a potency in the form of the bear carving, a token of whoever his father was -- a father contained in a piece of wood on a thong was better than no father at all. Find your father, Arnten, What did he know of how or where? Either his father was or was not a bear. If not, then he knew and could know nothing. If so -- then what? Where were bears? Anywhere, manywhere, where there were trees and streams. So. Avoid the grasslands, the great meadows. But he would have done so in any case. There was the game he could not take, there would be the great beasts, the danger-beasts he could not forfend. Therefore, the forest. A tree creaked. It seemed a Yes. let and scraps of dried meat and fish were gone from his bark bag he went a while without and he hungered... Then there were berries and plants his old herb-uncle had shown him. He ate walking and he slept little. He seemed to need less of either. If the path forked and one branch inclined toward the plains of danger, he took the other. If there was still a choice and a question, he held the token in his hands and pointed it between the paths. It moved. Sometimes slowly, slightly. But it moved. It had one day not yet IF stopped moving when he felt the eyes upon him and looked up. They were great, glowing, amber eyes -- intelligent eyes, but far too strange to be the eyes of any man. Nor were they. The figure was squat of body and shag of skin, with a brown main of hair upon scalp and broad face. The extraordinarily long arms were folded across the extraordinarily thick chest. A kilt of soft leather girdled the loins. Short were the powerful legs. Over arms, hands and chest and belly the long brown hair grew thickly. The boy found himself looking at his own body and limbs. Instantly, several thoughts -- and one of them as an almost instant surprise:  am not afraid! And, another -- "Nay, boy." The voice was strange in more than being unknown. It had odd tones and echoes, the final vowels nasalized so that almost they sounded as nay'n, boy'n. "Nay, boy. It's isn't me nurr any we who's is fathered ye 'n given 'e them warm hairs upon yurr's skin." So acutely did the strange one discern his thoughts. And spoke a few words of no understanding, at first, to the boy -- whose ear sped back and caught on a word he knew. He said, "The bear -- " Something flashed golden in the amber eyes. More strange words. Then -- "Ye dow int speak en witchery words -- hey'n?" Arnten shook his head. "Nay," murmured the stranger. Almost, it was "Ngayng." He said, "We speak it ever 't'the forge. Ye must's ever speak en 't' Th' Old Tongue t'iron, furr iron 't's a witchery thing. So we speak en it furr habit, ef we dow int think not to -- " "You said -- Arnt  -- " "Eh. We speak 's'en it, too, 't'the bear, furr the bear dow be a witchery-beast. All creaturr dow die, but the bear dow come alive agains. And the Star Bear dow gived we-folk the first fire." The glowing eyes fixed his own. The odd voice, strong and strange, but devoid of harm for him, went on. "En all of Thule's the wurrd gone round, "When the wolf dow meet the bear: beware" " There seemed something expectant in his tone, something expectant in his look. But look and tone alike meant nothing to the boy, who said, as though thinking aloud, "A nain." The nain stopped his head and his shoulders. And the boy said, "Arnten, I am Arnten." And this time the nain stooped his entire thick body to the waist. Then, straightening, he extended an arm so long that its fingers almost touched Arnten's chest. "We know en what place 't' is." The boy's eyes followed and saw the thick and hairy fingers of the thick and hairy hand were pointing not to his body but to the token slung upon it. "Where? It is here"" The nain grunted, held up a hand straight from the wrist in the nain sign of negation. "Not this. Th' other this. Th' -- th' -- " He struggled to express himself, his manner rather like that of a man seeking a paraphrase for a thing he does not care to name precisely. "Th' other ThatV" And he turned and walked away. Arnten followed. A fter a full seven-days' walk they came to it. The place was more of a hole or cleft than a cave, but it was dry. Part of the ceiling had fallen in; boulders littered the floor. The nain without hesitating or pausing put his chest against the largest and wound long arms around it. He moved the stone up and over and then back. "Take 't' up," he said. "T's not furr we to touch." , clearly, was not the rock. A moment passed, in the dim light before Arnten saw it. For a moment he thought it was a piece of wood. Then, more by intuition than lineal recognition, he knew, that what he saw on the ground where the rock'had been was a witchery-bundle. That. It was perhaps the size of his forearm and, with his forearm, after he had taken it outside in the sunlight, he wiped at the dusty hide covering. It was certainly a witchery-bundle. There were witchery signs upon it, some clear, some dim, some familiar, some unknown. Largest and most deeply etched were the un and the bear. The bear was almost certainly a replica of the one he wore. Or -- was it the other way around? "The sun," he said. "Eh'ng," the nain agreed. "The sun and the bear, they go together. For the sun dies and 't comes alive again. And the bear dow die and dow come alive again. The sun give fire and the bear, too. Eh'ng," he said, after a moment, eyeing the hide-covered bundle, and musing. "How many snowtimes? Two hands? Surely two. But three? Surely not three. Bear, he telled a-we. Here dow be my token. Here dow by my," the nain gestured, "that. Bear telled: 'Look for it. If you see him, manchildbearchild -- if you see my token on'-t'him; show him where.' And we say'd him, Eh'ng-ah, Bear." It was mystery, but it was good mystery. Witchery, but he could not think it any but good witchery. It was a good moment. Why, then, did the flood of bad memory rise of his mouth? "They stoned me. They pelted me with filth. They called me naMs get and bear's bastard and they tried to kill me." The nain's amber-colored eyes glowed and darkened and in level sunlight glowed like a beast's in the night, glowed red, glowed like an amber in the nighttime fire. Words like distant thunder rolled in his vast chest and rumbled in his wide throat. "Wolf's lice! Accursed smoothskins!" He spoke at last in the common tongue and continued to do so, though occasionally dropping into naintalk or the archaic language of witchery. "If it were not for us and our iron they would still be eating of grubs and lizards and roots. And what will they do now, as iron dies? Is there one of them, a single one even, with cunning and courage enough to feed the wizards? Their king, ah, he might have, when he was young, but he's gotten old now, he's gotten half-mad now, he looks in the wrong direction, he afflicts where no affliction can help, the wind IF blows cruel hard from the north but he thinks it blows from the south! A nain's life is that it's worth to try to persuade him -- if a nain wished it. As for the rest of the slim race -- " He caught his breath, part in a sigh, part in a sob. The fiery glow in his eyes began to die away. "Nay, I'll say no more as regards that race and blood, 'tis partly yours. They may deny it, may deny you -- you may wish to deny it and them. But the blood cannot be denied. Nay, nay. The blood cannot be denied." Abruptly, gesturing to the bundle, the nain said, "Open it then." The outer covering had been tied tight with sinews, but his probing fingers found one loose enough to allow his teeth purchase. He gnawed, felt the fibers give way -- give until his teeth met with a click. Quickly his fingernails pulled the thread, Jtugged it from pierced hole, frorn the next and next. Some sort of dried membrane -- the bladder, perhaps, of a large animal -- was inside the outer covering, bound about with bark cord which did not long resist attack. Inside was a long pouch with a drawstringtied in tassels. Carefully he unfastened this, carefully he laid out the contents on the outer wrappings. First, by size alone, was a knife in a sheath of horn and leather, with a good bone handle carved in the same likeness of a bear. It was entirely unaffected by the ironrot. It was a good knife. There was also a dried and withered beechnut. There was also a greenstone. There was also a bear's claw. There was also, bent and doubled, but not yet broken, a riverreed. There was nothing else. He looked up to ask about these, but the nain was gone: E very man had a witcherybundle; even children devised them in imitation of their elders. Spme had richly adorned ones, the contents bought of high-priced witcherers for nuggets of atnber and pelts of marten, sable, ermine, white tigers, snow leopards. Some had but meager pouches containing perhaps a single item -- a bone, a dried this-or-that, a something seen in a dream and sought for and found. A tooth pried from a dry skull. A fragment of something said to be a thunderstone. Some had inherited. So had he. The knife alone would at any time have been deemed a good inheritage, the more so now that good iron was hard to find and harder to keep. The more so for the circumstances of its hiding and finding. But what did the other mean? A bear claw, now thatwas easy to understand. But the reed? The greenstone? Arnten, find your father. Had he found him? Not yet.' But now, having found this much, might he not find a source? For as long -- no, longer -- than he himself had lived, the nains had not seen his father. He might be dead. He might be far away. He might be neither. He might be alive and very near. Arnten carefully restored the magic items to their pouch -- except for the knife, which he slung alut his waist -- and started off. Excitement and happiness had made him heedless and when he heard the low-voiced song in the clearing he had no thought but to see who was singing it. It was one of the Painted Men, that was at once obvious -- one of the Painted Men whom it was death to see unpainted. By greatest good fortune, though, he had just finished painting himself, however -- and what a curious pattern his skin did present! Almost hideous. Not till the man, still hulnming his witchery-song, lifted his brush and dipped it in a tiny pot did Arnten realize, cold with horror, that what he was seeing was the man's naked skin! -- that he had only then begun. The Painted (or unPainted) Man swung about, panting with shame and rage. Arnten felt the club's first blow. Ill T he old nain stood stolidly where the uneasy soldiers had bade him stand. He could without great effort have broken the ribs of all of them and the necks of most before any of them could stop him -- and perhaps it was this that made them uneasy. But perhaps not. The king's camp and court was an uneasy place in general these days -- not that the rest of Thule lay at much ease either. Slots of sunlight came through the smoke hole in the top of the great tent. The king sat back on a peltpiled bench and the nain thought it seemed they lied who said the king was agewasted. Indeed, as the Orfas sat there, glaring, hands'clenched upon his knees, he seemed all too vigorous. Within himself the old nain sighed a slight sigh. Only to the extent that the smoothskins were unpredictable were they predictable at all. Ah, eh. Seasons come and seasons go and ever the race of nains would remain upon the earth. Meanwhile, one endured. Heat, cold, toil, hunger, thirst, a savage beast, an unwise king. A witchery queen. The soldiers, fumbling and breathing their unhappiness, finished shackling the old nain's horsehide fetters to one of the roof posts, were angrily waved outside, almost stumbled over, each other in their eagerness to obey. For a long moment the king continued to glare. Then he said, slowly and with effort, but quite correctly, "Uur-tenokh-tenokhguur." So, this was something. At least the king remembered the nain's proper name. Or had learned it. A small courtesy, perhaps. But a courtesy. He would return it. "Orfas," he said. The king's head snapped up with a jerk. He was not angered, he was not pleased, his attention had been called to something forgotten. Probably it had been long since he had been called by his own name in The Old Tongue, called anything (perhaps) save King or Great Bull Mammont or some other lickleg flattery such as the smoothskins used. The old nain almost without thinking essayed more syllables in the witchery language, but the king's swift gesture cut him off. IF "My store of that speech has rusted in my mind," Orfas said, "as has my story of the iron you have cursed." His head shifted, his eyes flashed. "'"'Why have you cursed it?" "We have not. Do you curse your kingdom?" "You are the High Smith of the nains. I have not had you brought here to bandy questions with me." "You had not brought rne here at all, had I not thought you would keep your word." Bluff and bluster. What? Not kept his word? How? "You said I would not be bound." A false and further look of outraged pride, falling into one of faint regret and helplessness at having been stupidly misunderstood. "I said that you would not be bound with iron." "Is it by such cunning shift of words that you hope to command either my respect or my assistance?" The king flushed, either in affront or from some vestigial sense of shame. "Do you think me an owl or a bat, unable to see in daylight? I see that none of your captives are bound in iron. It is not out of any honor that I have been bound in thongs of skin, but because you no longer trust iron." It was a statement, not a question, it went home. The king looked aside, for a moment at a loss. "I will give you an advice -- " The king sat up. "Sea-cow's skin is tougher by far and far less risky to hunt." The king growled and moved on his bench. Then he came forward and, stooping, loosed the High Smith's bounds. "It is well," the old nain said aloud. In his mind he said that in the brighter light the Orfas looked his full age indeed. Gray streaked the once yellow hair, now scanted. The smoothskin was no longer quite so smooth of skin at all: here wrinkled, there slack, elsewhere puffed with fat where not hollowed. It was nonetheless well, this act. Uur-tenokh-tenokh-guur sat and the king sat before him. Would he eat? -- Would he drink? the king asked. The nain grunted, held his hand up. No. A silence fell. "Listen," said the king at last. "What will you nains do when the barbar-folk invade?" "I do not know that they will invade. I do not believe that they will invade. Why do you think so?" The king restrained himself. Beneath his shag eyebrows his eyes looked at the nain like the waters of a wintry sea. "Why should they not invade? Are we now known to them as the source of great wealth? Amber and ivory and peltry -- do they not value these things? Is there not a proverb. When the prey stumbleSy the hunter sharpens his knifel They will invade to gain our wealth; they will invade because without iron, good iron for weapons, we are weak before them; they will invade because I tell you they intend to invade and it is in order to strengthen themselves by weakening us that they have cursed our iron -- " The old nain wheezed in the way that nains have and he said, "So now it is the barbar-folk who have cursed iron. And not the nains." Slant-glanced, Orfas looked at him. "All the witchery of iron is yours and you have kept it yours and we have suffered you to keep it yours. Besides the one kept by treaty at my court, there has been no forge outside of Nainland. If any man had a broken spear or plowpoint, he had to wait in hopes of a wandernain coming by with unbroken spear or plowpoint to trade him old for new plus a goodly gift -- Nay, High Smith. I never grudged the nainfee, myself paying highest of all. If this is at the bottom of all, let it be said the nainfee will be raised, let it be , doubled, tripled -- " ' "it is not we." The king's teeth clenched upon a strand of beard he had thrust into his mouth. "What has ever happened to iron without the nains' causing it to happen?" "This is a new thing, King. Had we not asked you long before you asked we?" The king's hand made a movement, the king's face made a movement. The king was not in an instant persuaded. "You asked in order to cover yourself. But you have not covered yourself. Do you not know that the kings ears are the longest ears in Thule" I hear all things and I can, from what I hear, feckon all things. Thus it is that I know that iron is accursed, that the nainfolk have cursed it -- at whose behest and for what purpose? Your silence is useless. Speak, then." The old nain sighed. "If you hear all things, then already you have heard of what the nains say among the nains in Nainland, namely that it is doubtless a device of the neglected wizards of Wizardland in order to ensure that they do not remain neglected: this curse, the death of iron. And if from what you hear you can reckon all things, then you can reckon what needs be done." Now it was the king who sighed. "You speak to me as though we were two old women pounding bark. You will speak differently if I come upon Nainland with all my men." The old High Smith shook his massive head. "It is all one, if you come upon Nainland with all your men or with but one or none of your men. The forges of Nainland are cold, Orfas. The forges of Nainland are cold." A S HE stepped from the outer to the inner of the two rooms in which he was to be lodged -- or confined -- he saw three great white flowers lying together upon a mat. He stopped still. "I thought you might remember," a voice said. "I thought it might please you." "Dame, I do remember," the old nain said. "And I am pleased." He touched without bending down the flowers with his fingers. The blooms were scentless, but the room contained the scent of some that had never blossomed in the northern land of Thule. He had heard of the tiny horns and small flasks carven in strange designs upon strange stone, which contained the odorous essences of plants for which Thule had no name, delivered at intervals in trading vessels for great price and for the anointing and the pleasure of the Orfas Queen. He turned. "Your face told me that you IF had never seen them before and that they pleased you; so I gave them to you, the three of them, and presently you gave me these -- " She took from her broad bejewled belt the ivory case containing the three small things so carefully wrought: dirk and spoon and comb. "Only see," she said, sorrowfully. The red-rotted' metal crumbled at her slight finger touch. "Can you not effect a cure?" His broad stern face relaxed into something much like sorrow, he held both his hands straight up at the wrists. "They are so .small," he said, musing. "All the witchery of iron known to the nains might just suffice to mend them. But the Orfas King would not believe that. If these could be cured, he would expect, he would demand, he would require, that aH the rotting iron in his realm be cured. And this cannot be done. I do not say it can never be done. But it cannot be done now. I do not know when. Perhaps never again in our lives -- Dame -- perhaps never in our lives A moment's silence. "I shall leave them at the forge," she said. Again a moment's silence. Then she said and her beauty seemed no less than it had been that long ago when Uur-tenokh-tenokh-guur had been a wandernain and she the lady of the Orfas Chief. He not yet king. She not yet queen. Sundry sayings floated in his mind. One queen is every queen, every queen is all queens. A beautiful woman, no doubt, and without question well versed in witchery, though he knew as little of queencraft as she of naincraft. She spoke again and said, "What have you to tell me of one who waits to return from across the all-circling sea?" He looked at her with pure unknowing and the certainty ebbed from her face. Then she said, "One who is not to be named, one who is the son of the half-brother -- " Understanding seemed to come not so much from his mind as from his broad and grizzled chest, whence a sigh of comprehension welled.' "Ahhh. That one, who contested with -- Nay, Dame, I haven't seen that one for four handfuls of seasons. Eh, must be full four. Nor heard of that one in that time. Say you that he has passed the all-circling seas?" She gazed at him, a line between her brows. "Say you not? I see ou seem full ignorant of what I ad thought every nain, as every man, has heard: that one fled to the barbar-lands after fleeing court -- when my Orfas gained the kingship -- and has conspired to curse the iron so that, when he returns with hordes of barbar-folk, the kingsmen shall be as though unarmed. And say you that you know this not?" He stretched forth both his long, long arms and held up both his thick and calloused palms -- straight up -- and he looked at her with pure unknowing. L ong he sat there alone, musing on what she had said, striving to make sense of it. Long he sat there, reflecting on old conflicts long forgotten -- though clearly not forgotten by the Orfas King. Long he sat there, yearning for the red fires and the hot forges and the lust, and joy of beating out the good red iron. Old forge songs and sayings came to him and old sayings not of the forge at all, such as By three things only can a king be made: by strength, by magic, and by fortune. Having set in the outercourt a watch of mandrakes who would shriek beshrew if so much as unbidden shadow fell, Merreddelfen, the principal witcherer, and the king and queen sat in the Room of Secret Counsel. Said thequeen, "What news?" Said the king, "What help?" Said the sage, "Much news, little help." In his mind he said. Little news, no help. But one did not say such dire words, doom words, to the king. "Slayer of SpearTeeth, the Painted Men report a spy in the forest. I have no fear; the spy is dead." Said the king, "Why dead? Why dead? From a dead spy no news can be gotten." Said the queen, "Why not dead? A dead spy betrays no secrets." Said the sage, "Great Dire Wolf, a dream has been dreamed of All-Caller, the great fey horn. No doubt this portends great good and who better to enjoy great good than thee. Great Dire Wolf?" Said the king, "Ah." Said the queen, "Oh." Said the sage, "Woe." Said the king and queen, Whatr Said the sage quite swiftly, "Woe to the enemies of the King of Thule, the Slayer of Bull Mammonts, the Great Dire Wolf." Said the sage quite slowly, "Wearing my Cloak of Night, I crept to the mines; there I heard the nain-thralls chanting in the Old Language, singing in the Magic Tongue. Lord and Lady, they intoned a tale of Fireborn, a thing of witchery of which they said it will cut good iron. Good iron! -- Lord and Lady! And if the nainfolk make words about good iron, is this not a sigh that the nains know that iron will soon be as good as iron was before?" Said the sage quite steadily, "Lady, you must use all your ways and wiles. Lady, you must prepare for many journeyings. Lady, you must wear many masks." Then they set their heads even Closer together and they whispered and nodded and bit their lips. The mandrakes muttered. And the shadows danced. T he breadth of the cavern was one nain wide and the height of the cavern was one nain high. Soldier guards, kingsmen, were obliged to stoop. More than once when the nain-thralls had been ordered to make the roof higher ness to do so, saying that the roof would fall. So the guards were obliged to swing sideways the cudgels with which they struck the nainthralls if the nains did not hack their stone-mattocks into the crumbly ironrock swiftly enough or if they lingered or stumbled while carrying the baskets of ore up the long incline and up the risky ladders set in shallow steps -- up, up and up to the open sky inside the grim stockade. IF Not long ago the notion of nain-thralls had only belonged to the past -- a subject for winter tales or summer-night songs -- how, in the days of bronze -- when no king reigned -- the nain-thralls dug the brazen-ore and forged the brazen-tools, how the greensickness came upon Thule and all bronze died and Chaos was king; how the nains discovered the secret witchery of iron and were free men at all times after, only paying the nainfee to the man king who in subduing the chiefs succeeded them as Power. Thralldom was still the subject of song and story -- .or rather, again. But who cared what dirges the nains sang as they toiled or what accounts they told as they lay on their beds of bracken in their imprisoned nights? The swans fly overhead A nd the nains see them. The moles tunnel through the earth And the nains see them. Stockades do not wall the swans A nd the nains see them. Fetters do not bind the moles A nd the nains see them. The baskets of ore were emptied into hand barrows and the thralls carried the barrows to the forge. Once the nains were free as swans A nd the nains see them. Once the nains were free as moles A nd the nains see them.  Although the presence of bronze as a crude earth is very rare, it is not unknown. The forge was a flat rock rising from deep under the ground. The fire burned upon a hearth of other flat rocks, raised to a platform of the same height as the forge. The lumps of ironstone (and the articles of sick iron) were placed in the fire and burned. Although the kingsmen walked to and fro in violation of the ancient compact which excluded them as it did all strangers, they learned nothing from their observations that did them any good. All ores looked alike to them; they did, not know which ones to discard. All fired ironstones remained mysteries still to them; they knew not, though the nains did, which ones to discard as too brittle and which to pull out with greenwood toolsticks to be pounded upon the forge . stone. Nor did they learn (or very much attempt to learn). the art of smiting with the stout stone hammer, turning and beating, beating and turning -- all the while intoning in the Old Tongue: Pound it, pound it, pound it well. Pound it well, well, well. Pound it well, pound it well. Pound it well, well, well... because it was said. The sound of the voice is good for the iron... P erhaps it was no longer as good as it once had been. Nothing seemed to be. Day after day the nains toiled to make new iron, hacks and spears and knifeheads and arrow points. And day after day the productions of -- at first -- the previous year were returned to them, rotten with rust, flaking and powdering, to be melted down and made new and whole again. The previous year -- at first. Then the irons of the previous half-year. Then the previous season. Then last week, month -- last fortnight. One sweating nainsmith paused and pointed to a red-sick lancehead and his chest, thick and thicketed as some woodland hill, swelled as he spoke. "Not a seven-night since I beat this out -- and now look how swift the ironill has afflicted it!" And he added in the witchery-tongue: "Thou art sick, thou art sick. Alas and woe to thee and us for thy very sickness" And in his rumbling, echoing voice he began to chant and was joined by his thrall-fellows: Woe for the iron that is sick, And the nainsseeit. Woe for the black stone whose red blood wastes, A nd the nains see it. He thrust the heap of rusted metal into the wood fire, deep, deep, till red coals and red metals met. Woe for the king whose men take captive, A nd the nains see it. They take captive upon the paths, A nd the nains see it. They lead away in heavy ropes, A nd the nains see it. Captivity and toil lay waste the heart, A nd the nains see it. Captivity and toil lay waste the flesh. And the nains see it. The nain-thralls waste like iron. The kings evil is like rust. The queens lust is wasteful, evil. Evil, evil, are these times. These days, consumed as though by wolves. When will the wolf confront the bear, A nd the nains see it? When wilt the stars throw down their spears? A nd the nains see it? Confusion take these smooth of skin A nd the nains see it? When will the wizards mouths be fed, A nd the nains see it? The nainsmith seized a lump of iron and beat upon it with the stone hammer with great, resounding blows; and with each blow they all shouted a word: When! Will! This! King-!dom! Rot! And! Rust! A nd! The! Nains! See! It! IV he lay between earth and sky, rising and sinking, turning over and over again. Strange calls upon strange horns, strange voices, sounds. Pains, swift and passing like flashes of lightning, shot through him, again and again, then less often. The Painted Men were pursuing him; he hid from them; he hid in hollows beneath the roots of trees, he hid in the forks of the branches of trees, perched upon the crests of rocks, IF slid into the spaces between them. Always, always, saw the Painted Men prance by, panting in rage and shame that he had seen their naked skin. Always, always he stayed quite still. And always, always, they passed him by. And always, always they paused, legs frozen in mid-stride. And always they turned, saw him; he felt the blows; all vanished. Years went by. he was returning to the everyday world he said in his mind that he would be very cunning and not reveal that he was no longer in the other world. He lay very still. Perhaps the Painted Men were uncertain if he were alive or dead and were lying in wait to see. He could not, through his parted eyelids, observe anyone or anything at all, save for the green network surrounding him and through which faint glints of sky were visible. But he had a faint yet firm feeling that if he were to roll his eyes just a bit to the right He did not; he was too canny for that. Besides, his right eye seemed swollen so much that -- And then a hand appeared, small as that of a large child, delicate as that of a young woman, yet not either: in the dim green light and through only one and a half eyes the hand seemed not entirely real, seemed almost translucent, had something about the bone structure, the nails -- how many joints were there -- nacreous as the inside of certain sea or river shells. The hand placed something on his puffed eye, something cool and damp and soothing... and without awareness of intent to do so, he put up his hand and took the other by the wrist and sat up. Almost, he had not held the hand at all. Almost, it was as if his fingers were encircling something which had dimension without having substance -- a delicate flower, as it might be, in the shape of a hand -- and it slipped out from his grasp as simply as a sunbeam. He had never seen a perry before. Something slipped off his eye -- he saw it was a dressing of bruised leaves and grasses, damp as though with the morning's dew: the perry's delicate and almost insubstantial hand took it and placed it on the swollen eye again and the perry's other hand took his hand, did not so much lift as guide it to hold the compress in place. As the thin dew sparkling upon a cobweb, so did the perry's garments glint and sparkle; as the shy fawn stands in the gladey underbrush, not quite trembling and not quite looking at the intruder but poised for instant flight, so did the perry stand at the entrance to the leafy bower. Arnten's body did not so much still pain him as it echoed faint reflections of remembered pain. Dim outlinesof bruises he could see here and there upon his skin; he remembered enough lore of herbs and simples from his medicine uncle to know that even the most puissant leaves or roots or grasses had not by themselves done all this work of healing: but the witchery of the perries, either intent or inherent or both, had aided them. At first he had had a fleeting thought that he might be in the hands of The Woman of the Woods, of whom many tales were told. To be sure, he had never seen the Woman of the Woods, just as he had never seen a perry -- but his uncle had told him enough of each so that now he knew. His uncle who was his mother's uncle. His mother whom he had lost. A rnten.find your father. His father whom he had never had. The bear he could not find. The man, the mocker (had said Long Roke) who had" "gamed" his mother. The bogey for whom the boys of the village had held him slightly in awe and so much in scorn. Because of whom he had fled for very life. In which flight he had all but lately lost his Jife. And now lay here, back from the edge of death, in the company of a creature far more fey than any nain, who spoke no word and barely Ipoked at him and barely smiled yet had felt that deep concern for him and even now trembled between visibility and invisibility, substance and shadow, staying and leaving. This gentle presence touched the cords which bound his pent misery and long-contained sorrow and did that which heavy and brutal blows had not and could not have done, and he covered his face with his hands and broke into tears. He wept long and without restraint and when he had stopped at last, he knew it would be long, if ever, before he wept again. His eyes were wet and his chest ached, but these were slight shadows which would pass. All his body aches had gone. Something had changed in him forever. He dried his eyes, including the one no longer swollen -- and he was on his knees and rising when he realized that the perry was no longer there. H e was aware of hunger and thirst, but more of thirst. He was aware of  something else, a sound that had been sighing in his ears for as long as he had been in this shelter which somehow the perry had made for him. Sometimes the sound was as faint as a baby's breath; sometimes it grew almost as loud as the wind which carried it and sometimes louder, the fider overbearing the steed. Somewhere not so very far away was a river and now, in this moment of his great thirst (water perhaps needed to replenish that shed by his uncommon tears), great was the sound of its rushing. The perry had stood upright, but Arnten found he was obliged to stoop, although certainly the grasses and the light, light withes would have yielded easily to his head. And so, while at the curiously woven opening, stooping slightly and about to go out, he became aware of two things lying almost concealed by the fragrant grasses of the shelter's floor. One was the witchery-bundle to which both bark basket and knife had been tied by deft and curious perIF ry-knots; the other reappeared to him as though out of his dreamworld between the time the Painted Man had beaten him to the ground and the time of his reawakening. He recalled it now. When he had felt (and doubtless had indicated) thirst, something had glowed and glittered in the air before him, touched his lips and he had drunk. He had in his semithoughts believed it a fragment of a rainbow conveying the cooling rainwater to his lips; or a gigantically distended drop, suffused into water on his lips and tongue. Now he saw it to be, less fantastically but not much less wondrously, a flask of some substance unfamiliar to him. Light passed into it and through it and he voiced wordless surprise on observing that he could see through it! What he saw was subject to a gross distortion. The flask was iridescent as the fingernails of the perry or the interior of . certain shells, shining with a multitude of colors which shifted and changed. And it weighed much less than a vessel of earthenware of the same bulk. He marveled, but did not stop for long to do so; he placed it in the basket along with the witchery-bundle (knife again by hip); he considered what its name might be. For present identification alone he deemed to call it perry ware. And then he stepped outside, ready to seek his stream. The sound of the river was quite strong outside the small grass shelter, shelter so slight that seemingly a fawn could have crushed it by rolling over, now that the protecting presence of the perry was withdrawn. He saw no traces of a fawn, but pausing a moment and wondering what, had cropped the small measure of meadow, greenery and flowery, he saw the pellet droppings of the wild rams and -- his eyes now opened -- here a shred and there a fluff of their wool. His uncle had at one time amassed a small heap of their hooves (begged, doubtless, from hunters) which lay a long while in a corner, oily and strong-smelling. Once a nain .had come to trade new iron for old and the rams' hooves had vanished -- but for what consideration and for what purpose he had never asked and never learned. The wind brought the river sound stronger, nearer, to his ears; the wind brought a scent of flowers, too. He was on a downward slope and in a moment, following the land contours, he found himself wading through the blossoms -- first they were under his feet, then around his ankles; then they touched the calves of his legs, his knee -- and he brushed them away from his face. Glancing at his hands, he saw blood. Astonished, he looked around. Each clump of flowers grew from a flashy green pod. Pod? Paw? There had been a wild catton in the village once, though not for long. Taking amiss being prodded with a stick as it lay stretching with paws outthrust, out from those paws it thrust its claws and struck -- once -- twice -- at its tormentor. Who in one moment more had crushed its skull with a rock. So, now: even as he halfhalted his movements he saw a cluster of flowers dip down toward him, thrust out a sheaf of thorns and rake his chest with them. And then another. And then another. His arms, his legs, his back -- he cried out, looked back, was struck again, flung his arms up before his eyes and staggered forward, raked with thorns and racked with pain. Then vinelets wrapped around his ankles... And then, for a long moment, nothing. eyes. At once his ears seemed to open, too. There was a deep, intent humming in the air. He saw the thorn-paws of the thickets sway and waver. He saw them droop. He saw a swarm of bees spread out, circle; saw, one by one, the thorns draw back into their pods; saw the flowers open wider. Saw each bee select its first flower, mount and enter, heard the bumbledrone alter in pitch and quicken. Saw each plant stretch itself taut, then begin a slow undulant motion. Saw himself utterly forgotten and ignored. Once again had the wary feeling of being watched. Saw nothing. Made his way unvexed to the water, kneeled and drank. Here the water rushed noisily over the rocks, there it eddied and circled silently into pools, out farther it glided with a joyful clamor along its main channel; then paused and murmured thoughtfully among the reeds. Everywhere it sparkled -- in his cupped hands as he lifted it to his mouth, as it fell in droplets from his face, spun around sunken logs, made the reeds rustle. Something was trying to tell him -- what? The reeds nodded. Reeds. With a movement so quick and unstudied that he sank one foot into water, he stood up, spun around and unslung his witchery-bundle -- or, more exactly, the witchery-bundle supposedly left by his father -- and spread out its contents in the sunshine. Fingers trembling, he unsheathed the knife and cut a fresh reed and laid it down beside the one in the bundle. Except that one was dry and one was fresh, they were identical. Surely it was a sign. The medicine objects restored to their coverings, he considered long what he should do. It seemed somejiow natural that he should continue along the river; there, where he had found the first sign, might he not find at least a second? At first he splattered along on the sand flats and gravel beds, the mudbanks and shallows of the shore. The river looked so wild, so wide, full of mystery (and, perhaps, menace). Here presently the salmon would come surging upstream, that was certain, but not now. What else might lie beneath those sounding waters was uncertain indeed. Sometimes the forest came right down to the brim and barm as though the trees would dip and drink. Sometimes he walked beneath towering banks and bluffs. After a while he saw the IF river divide and flow around an island, the main channel to the far side, the hither side forming a quiet pool, the shore of which was a sandy beach. On impulse he stopped, scooped out a hollow, placed into it his bundle and his basket with the perry thing, covered all with his leathern kilt, heaped sand over it. Then he turned and walked into the water. T he shallows had been sunwarmed, but now the deeper and cooler waters began to lap against his legs, higher and higher, and he saw and felt the flesh about each hair creep into a tiny mound. He saw that hair was now growing thicker about his man-parts. Abruptly, with a slight gasp, he slipped deliberately beneath the surface and for a moment squatted on the bottom like a frog. His breath heaved against his chest. He opened his eyes. All was strange in this new world. Then something was suddenly familiar; he opened his mouth and only the sudden burst of bubbles reminded him that water and not air was his surrounding. He surfaced, took another breath, slid down once more. In the curious light he exchanged quick glances with a small fish, then bent his eyes to the river bottom. Green light wavered in the green water and rippled over the green stones. Reed in his medicine bag, reed beside the water. Greenstone in his medicine-bag, greenstones beneath the water. It was the sought-for second sign. The boy-frog squatted on the sand, sand clinging to him here and there, and looked at the other two small things in his budget of wonders: the beechnut and the bear claw. Certainly the last was the Sign of the Bear himself, and by now it was plain that what the bear was saying was. Seek these others if you would seek me. Find these others and you will find me. In the way a scout leaves signs along a trail so that those who follow may see and know what his message is, so the Bear had left these signs -- not indeed in any sequence set apart by space -- so that one who followed after might follow farther yet. All clear, that. But what was the' meaning of the beechnut? Beechnuts were good to eat, though perhaps not very good. The black swine of the woods were said to be fond of them. It wasn't clear what connection the wild swine had with the bear. Perhaps none. He began to feel confused and set his thoughts to tracing their way as though through a forest path: Bear -- black swine -- beechnutwell enough, by working backward he had come at least to some certain thing -- beechnut -- foresttrees -- Beechnuts, whatever else they indicated, certainly indicated a beech tree. Not bothering to brush the sand from his bare legs and bottom, not from the leather kilt he swiftly and absently donned, he slung on his' gear once more and set off along the river. But this time he walked along the dry land and looked, not down, but up. And so, by arid by, by its silver-gray bark and its pale green leaves, but most of all its height, he saw the trees he sought. Some long past storm or earthshake, or perhaps a hidden subsidence of the ground beneath its roots, had inclined it at a slight angle, for it was near enough the river for the stream in spate to have undercut and then covered up its excavating -- or, perhaps the blow of a thunderstone had bent it; above the lowest branch, many times his own length high over his head a great scar was burned into the massive trunk. Once again he had the feeling of being watched; the feeling ebbed again. And there was certainly no sight nor sign of a bear. H IS disappointment was great. It would have been easy to stumble or falter, only that day's morning had he gotten up from a daze of illness which had lasted -- he realized he did not know for how long -- and he had barely paused for rest. He had drunk once. He had not eaten. Weakness rose inside him. What had he expected? To find his father and, in finding him, an end to all mystery and aloneness forever? Had he expected to find a father sitting at the bottom of the huge beech tree, ready to welcome him with warm embrace? Here he was, Arnten, and he was as alone, as hungry, as unknowing as he had ever been. What then was he to do? Slump behind the shelter of a bush and sleep and die? Weakness vanished. The very force of its sensation became a strength that blazed up within him and made itself felt without. He felt his skin tingle with something close to rage against this curious father who had cost his mother's life, had never come near to see what he had begotten, had left his cryptic messages with the nains alone. A father who might be dead, long dead. Had he been pursuing a ghost? Had he himself perhaps died already under the blows of the Painted Man and was now himself but a ghost? Did ghosts hunger? He allowed himself a cry of anger and bafflement. Then, fiercely, he filled his bark basket with such nuts and barries and leaves and shoots of greenfood as were close to hand. At a small trickle on its way to join the stream, he filled the perryware flask, stoppered its neck with a plug of fern. He arranged everything to hang behind him. Then, angry and hoteyed, defiant and determined, he set his toes and fingers in the cracks and ridges of the beech tree's bark and began to climb. For the first time he allowed himself to speak his thoughts aloud. "'I will go up!" he said, through his set teeth. "I-will-go-up!" He inched up. And up. "And I will find out!" The bundle and basket dangled, swung out, bumped back, grew heavier. "And until I find out -- " he panted, dug in once more, advanced, advanced -- "I ' will not come down -- " He swung one leg over the lowermost branch, hoisted himself up, pressed his head to the rough bosom of the tree and hung on for very life against the wave of vertigo which threatened to plummet him to the ground. Slowly it IF passed and slowly he opened his eyes. The lazy wind swung into his face, laden with scents of the rich earth, of flowers and other growing things. He looked over leagues of land and the swelling and falling away of hills, the glittering serpentine length of the river, forest forever a great green roof. And far, far off, so distant that he could not be sure, he thought he saw threadthin smoke. It might have been his village. He thrust forward his chin so suddenly that he felt a creak in his neck and, with all his force and might, spat in its direction. And then he allowed himself to realize that the lightning-burn upon the tree, just above the branch, was actually a tree-cave, a hollow. It was, he considered (with a shiver), too small to harbor either tiger or leopard; it even lacked the reek of a. bird's nest. Serpents would not go so high. Slowly, cautiously, he passed himself into it. Part of the bark still lay in place like a shell. And, patiently awaiting his discovery, wedged with splits of wood, pi;otected from the worst assaults of the weather, was another hide-bound bag. Inside this was a box of carved wood. And in the box, padded with red-dyed fleece, was something that lay almost outside all his experience. Long he crouched in the dim light, halfafraid to touch it; then his fingers played over the intricate carvings. There was mammont-ivory and horn of wild ram, horn of elk; there was bear claw, there was -- there were many things. Parts of it moved around, circle-wise, when he turned them. Parts moved up and down from holes, like little levers, when he touched them. Shapes of beasts and birds were carved into it. No man -- nor nain -- nor perry -- had devised it. It was wizards' work, and wizardry of witchery alone. It was a witchhorn, so huge and adorned and complex it could only be the witchhorn. Could only be All-caller, the great, fey horn. V . S EE then, in the late rays of the afternoon sun, while the great red circle still throws heat before descending for its slow journey through the Cavern Beneath The Earth whence .it will rise again next morning, a small, a very small Something sticking out its head from the bole of the huge beech tree. After the head, an arm, at the end of the arm a hand and in the hand -- what? It is needful to come closer. A shaggy boy, not quite a new young man, excitement and triumph and also fear upon its mold-smutched face. Carefully he holds the great horn in both his dirty hands. Carefully he examines it yet again, turning its turnable parts. Ah. Ahah. So. Here is the bear claw, as like to the bear claw in his witchery-bundle to make one think they had come from the same bear-beast. As, perhaps they had. The boy's full lips protrude, compressed in thought. So -- here is the bear carved in ivory upon the horn band. Surely it was meant to come in apposition to the bear claw. He takes a deep breath, fills his dusty cheeks, lifts the horn to his lips. His eyes roll, his nostrils distend. And below upon the mossy ground, while the echoes of the great cry, part growl, part roar, still send the birds whirling about and the leaves quivering, something comes into the open glade around the beech tree. Something comes as though the thicket were mere fern grass. Something comes crashing, comes trampling, comes on all fours, comes walking upright. Stands, stopping. Peering this way and that. Paws and head swaying, issues a cry, part roar, part growl. Part challenge, part question. Puzzled. Vexed. Brute. Bewildered. Bear, Bear, Bear, A moment passes, or does not pass; endures without end. Then the bear coughs, grunts, sighs, brushes at one ear.' Gurgles deep within its shaggy chest. Ambles and shambles down to the river. Stands there without motion. Then makes gestures which no bear has ever before been seen to make -- or so it seems to the watcher up high. Who has ever seen a bear take off its skin before? Who has ever seen a man inside a bear before? Who has ever seen a man stride into the water and leave an empty bearskin lying on the bank behind, gaping empty, eyeholes looking up, sightless, at the sky? Has anyone -- ? -- before? . man and, though it was the familiar-most of any object he had with him, he studied it as though he had never seen it before. Almost, for that matter, he had never seen a bear before. Perhaps he had seen live bears one or two times -- dead ones, before they had been all skinned and dismembered for food and hide, several times. The carving did not seem to have changed. The bear was still certainly a bear -- except that it still certainly had man's feet. He could not recall that he had ever observed the feet of living bears, these must have been concealed in grass or underbrush, or perhaps he had just not been looking; likelier he had had his eyes (as he crouched fearfully out of sight) on the paws of the forelimbs, on the fearsome jaws. Perhaps all bears had man's feet. But then a clear picture came to him of the four paws of one dead bear, cut off for the pot -- and all were pas, none truly feet. And yet, might it not be that bears, alive, had feet like men, and that these changed at death? As for the bear below? Truly, he had not noticed. He did not know. Well, regardless, he knew what he had to do now. He watched the man (formerly bear) swimming strongly in the water, bobbing under, emerging with hair all sleek, shaking his head, then resuming his swim, finally passing out of sight around a bend in the river. He would certainly be back. But Arnten was certain that he would not be back at once. Unencumbered by any burdens, all of which he left in the hollow, he climbed carefully down; he ran, eyes racing between three places -- the ground, lest he stumIF ble -- the water, lest the man, remarks or patterns (but blazing turning, see him soon -- the bearand patterning were not intendskin, lest -- lest what? Lest, pered to be other than open for all who haps, and most horrifying by far, could to read). And yet -- and yet, the empty skin somehow take on hy had he intended that his son life and move, either toward or should some day follow? How sure away from him. For a second it he had felt the son would follow, did indeed seem upon the point of would meet the nains, would undoing so and he gasped in fright, derstand the messages bound up But it was only the wind raising in the witchery-bundle: but this a worn corner. was for the moment beside the He seized the skin and ran, flingpoint and the point .was the bearing it across his shoulder and feelmanmanbear was power, and ing it on his back, bounding and power, as much as it was to be debouncing. He could see it, feel it, sired, so much was it to be feared, thankfully he could not hear it, he Presently something showed ithad no desire or reason to taste it. self in the river, moving against the He could smell it, though, and its current. Arms flashing in the dereek was very strong, partly bear, dining sunlight. A figure came partly man. All these things he padding out of the water on a perceived without being aware of sandbar, moving as a bear does concentrating on them. He conon all fours, but was not a bear; centrated first on getting out of moved to the other end of the sandsight of the water. And then he bar, where, motionless, it seemed paused to think of what he should to be staring into the water. A do next. forelimb moved so fast that the And, with a start, realized that motion could hardly be followed, he had already done something. Something flew out of the water. Perhaps he should not have, persparkled, fell. Twice more was the haps he should return and undo scene repeated before, now walkit. But he knew he would not. That ing upright, a fish in each hand which he had so greatly desired, and one in fhe mouth, the figure the one whom he had so straightly walked through the water to the sought, the source of his being and shore and shambled up the bank, his childhood's woe, man or bear Another, smaller figure, watchor manbear or bearman, the ing, trembled. The tall one was witchery creature which had been thickly built, with hair (now his weakness and must now be his slicked down flat with water) so strength... thick that almost the skin could be "l am afraid," he whispered. termed a pelt. It seemed that all the True, That One In The Water brightness of the sky of Thule, clearly had desired to see him, had which had only an hour ago been left a trail for him to follow perevenly divided, was now moved haps not as clearly as if it had been and crowded to one side and that blazed, as if it had consisted of traside so much brighter; while a blue ditional and familiar hunters' dimness gathered on the other side. The birds began to fall silent. The air grew cool. Leisurely, the tall figure ambled up the slope and onto the bluff. The fish fell from its hands and mouth and it dropped backward so that it came to rest sitting down, legs straight out and arms crooked upright from the elbows. It gave a great roar of disbelief and rage... Then it rose and stabbed at the mossy ground and took up something in its hands. The talisman, the wooden carving... Then the head rose and scanned the bluff, the brush, the crowded arbor of the forest. Abrupt growls came from the thick chest formed themselves into rage words. "Where are you? "Why have you done-this? " Where is my skinT" A voice came from somewhere up above, from the thickening darkness. "I will not answer your questions till you have answered mine." "Ask, then -- " And the other voice, a moment .silent, wavering a bit, but not halting, said, "Who are you? Who am I? What is next?" A ppropriately the backLlog of the fire had come from the great beech tree. "Long since I have made fire, or eaten food cooked on it, or food with salt on it," said Arntat. His hands, however, seemed to have lost no skill. The fish had been deftly gutted, gilled and grilled. Salt, in a screw of barkrag, was still in Arnten's basket. "Salmon will be better," Arntat said, smacking his mouth at the thought. "But these are well enough." Sparks leaped, embers blackened, glowed again. Abruptly he swiveled and faced the boy. "You be thinking, 'Is it to hear talk of fish and fire that I've come this long way, waiting?' Eh? I see it by your face, 'tis so. Arnten. I have waited longer than you. Be patient." And the boy was silent. A nd his fullfather said, "The ibear is in the blood and the bear may take you as the bear took me. At any time whilest life blood be in you the bear may take you, for the bear is in the blood. If it takes you not, and it may not take you, if it takes you not then 'twill take your son and if hot you and not him then 'twill take your son's or daughter's son for sure. Let this be no burden. Fear it not. I've dabbled and dallied with a queen of love, and though 'twas joyous passion, yet 'twas nought compared to shambling 'mongst the new berries or finding honey in a tree or scooping forth first salmon, when I was gone a-bearing," his fullfather said. And he said, "Bear's weird be better than man's weird and better than nain's weird. As a man I've been a chieftain high with lands and wealth -- you may let your ears drop, 'tis nought to you Mhere and nought to you what'smy-name-then. You were not made upon empty bear hide in lawful bedchamber, ah no, you were made when the bear was in the bearskin. My heritage to you is other than to my othergotten IF sons. Heed and hear me now, Arnten. By my witch-bundle and by my shadow, sons you make outside the bearskin be outside the bear-blood. But sons you make when you be a-bearing and be inside the bearskin, the blood of the bear be in them. And if the blood of the bear be in them, then not running water nor icy pools nor firehot springs can wash it out." And the bear was silent. bers and hard embers make long fires. Long fires make long tales. Long they sat there in the scented night and Arntat talked and Arnten listened and learned. He learned that the shift and shape was truly not confined to man to bear, that other creatures indeed could pair, could couple, could double and shift. Bee and salmon, wolf and bear. Tiger, lion, mole and hare... He learned of the slow growth of metals beneath the earth's skin and the formation of amber beneath the sea, how amber was one of the things of the perries, whereas metal was a thing of the nains. Once there was a metal called bronze but at length it grew green and sick and presently it died. Now there was iron. 'The sickness of iron is red," said Arnten, "and iron is dying." Red glints in the ashes. Reflections in the eyes of the watchers. "Aye, eh," muttered Arntat. "The sickness of iron is red." He swung up his head and his hand gripped his son's. "What say thee, bear's boy? Iron is dying? What?" That he, knowing so much, should not know this, for several heartbeats kept Arnten silent and astonished. Then he saw pictures in his mind: one: one: then he saw things moving, heard the nain tell of years since "Bear" was by them seen. Arnten said, "You have been long inside the bearskin, then, and that long you've not seen iron?" Still the hand gripping his did not move. "#roi is dyingl True, true, many springtimes I have caught and killed the great salmon and many summertimes I have climbed for honey in the honeytrees and in the rocky clefts. Many falltimes have I eaten the last of the frost-touched fruits and the sweet flesh of nuts. And many wintertimes have I felt the bearsleep come upon me and felt the numbness grow inside my head and sunk into the lair till the snows grow thinner. Aye. Eh. I can count the time only by counting your time. You are barely a man. And the last iron I had seen, the last iron I had thought of, I wrapped well the iron knifelet in my witchery-bundle and hid it well for thee. May it be sick?" Arnten did not mind the grip upon his hand. He crouched against the crouching body of his fullfather. He rested on that puissant flesh which had made his own and which was now his present as well as his past. Defying mankind and beastkind and time and the night, he let himself recline against the great rough beast which was his father and he let his hand recline in that great rough paw. Quietly, almost drowsily he said, "That witchery-knife alone is not sick. But all other iron is sick." And he muttered, "The nains," and he muttered of the nains. And he sighed, "The king -- " and he sighed words of the king. And almost he fell asleep, comforted by the rough, warm body and its rough and powerful smell. Then the body moved, releasing his hand, and a sound which was almost a cry and almost a groan rumbled and broke loose from that strong fatherbody by the embers. "row! "TAe nains ThekJngV  Almost he flew awake. He slid down so that he might sland up. The day had been long and there was still much to talk about. The day had begun with the mammont hunt and he had run far and he had been hurt and nains and perries and Painted Men pursued him and he ran along the river and now the long long day was over and he had nevermore again to run to bolt to flee and Irani Sick ironl The wizards and The king sounded their names in the darkness. And the embers slid down because they were tired and the embers slipped beneath the ashes and the . embers slept. In the morning the embers were awake again and spitting and flaring at the meat that turned, spitted and smoking. Arntat was still crouched by the fire as though he had never left it and as though the meat had come at his bidding and obediently slipped out of its skin and onto the spit. Arntat yawned hugely and glanced at Arnten and it seemed as though his teeth were still the tushes and the fangs of Bear, his eyes still Bear's eyes so small and cunning and sharp, his blunt face still Bear's muzzle and his hairy hands with long thick nails -- The yawn closed with a snap. The man said, "There was the lone one of you?" "The -- '" "Sometimes a she kindles with twain. Or more. My get, by your dam -- " "Only me, as I ever heard. I never knew her. Uncle said she drowned. Was mad." Arntat grunted. "It was time for it to be done and I was there and she was there and 'twas done, so. If not she, another. If not me, another. If not she and me, then not thee." He took the spit from its fcks and rested the savory roast, dribbling, on the grass. "So. The lone one of you. Called me from my bearguise." He seized his son by his downy shoulders. "Hid from me my bearskin." Son resisted, wordlessly, was pressed down nontheless. "Carried off with him my token. Found the nain. Found me. Called me from my bearguise. Stole away my bearskin. The lone one of you." Arnten was on his back, flat. "Am I to regret 'twasn't twins? Or be one of such enoujgh?" The single hand quivered the boy belly as one would a pup's. Then moved, one hand, two hands, tore the roasted meat apart, slapped on part still sizzling on the place the hand had been -- boy leapt up, yelpIF ing -- bared his teeth and began to eat. Boy teeth shining sharp in quickclosed mouth. Boy hand rubbing belly. Boy snout smelling savory food. Boy cub by bear man, tearing meat from bone. Still eating when father got up and strode off, he followed at quick pace, still holding his own unfinished portion. "Arn!" he said. "Arntat! Bearfather!" Bearfather growled over his shoulder. "The hide! The horn! The witchery-bundle! Shall I fetch?" Arntat growled, "The hide? Leave it be. I'll go no more abearing for now. The horn? Leave it be. Rather than call wrong, call none for now. The witcher-bundle? As you want." And he melted into the shadows of the all-circling forest. Arnten followed, thinking and eating as he went. Claw and reed and stone and nut, he had read their message and read them rightly; he could part with them for now. The hide with its medicine signs he needed not now. For a moment he begrudged the knife, the good knife of good iron. He took a longing look at the slightly slant and towering beech tree, casting a long shadow in the morning sun as it had cast in the evening. They were ail safe up there in the hollow of the hideyhoie. And there, safely, let them bide, then. Still eating, he slipped after his father into the dappled surface of the forest. A rntat did not precisely linger, he did not exactly daily, neither did he rush ahead with great speed, nor slink through the woods. Some sort of game was being played. For neither did Arnten go so fast as he might. It was the game, then, that each should generally hold the other in sight, but only generally. And sometimes the bigger one would suddenly hide himself and as suddenly reveal himself when the smaller paused to look around, then proceed as though he had not been hidden at all. Before long they had developed many aspects to this game and little tricks and presently they were again and again filled with silent laughter at each other. Through many a clearing and burn and along the paths they played their game, sometimes 'Tat leaping along a fallen tree as lightly as a squirrel, at least once 'Ten dropping several leaves before being realized and looked up at. It lasted most of the morning and might have lasted much longer, but then Arnten, running noiselessly around a great lichenstudded boulder, ran full tilt into flesh which only in that first second he thought was his father's. A swift blow and an angry word undeceived him before his eyes did -- he who had for all morning dropped even the memory of blows and angry words -- and, as he tried to scramble to his feet, tried to turn his head to see who it was, tried (all these at once) to run away any which way, someone grabbed his arm and twisted it. Only then did he cry out. The man's face had the look of one who kicks a dog not to be rid of it but for the pleasure of kicking it. Then the face changed and the arm released him, raised its spear; the mouth that cursed him gave a sick croak as something snapped which was not the spear, Arntat was there. Arntat was holding, embracing, Arntat was crushing. Ugly sounds of witless fright, then, from this other's mouth. Blood gushing from that mouth. And then other men, many other men, spears and clubs and then ropes, Arntat down on one knee. Arntat releasing limp and bleeding body, Arntat clawing out for a grip upon another. Arnten biting, beating. Arntat down. Arntat growling, roaring. Men cursing as much in fright as wrath. Arntat down. Arntat suddenly silent, save for his bxeathing in the sudden silence. Arntat bound. Arnten, too. And after some moments of gasping, recovering breath, slowing hearts, hissing of pain, someone said as though to a question none had heard, "I don't know -- I don't know -- Eh? Ah? Nains? No Nor bears -- " Another voice. "We be the king's men. Let the king say what.' And others, others. "Aye! Ah! Let the king say what!" VI T he red-sickness of all iron fiamed into a plague. At first whispered, it was now said openly that the king himself had caught Vhe evil and the ill. Indeed, it seemed to be so. Red blotches were seen about his face and hands and all his face and limbs and frame looked wasted and hollowed. His voice cracked and croaked. His hands shook. In the mornings he groaned and staggered. In the late afternoons his eyes would roll up and his eyelids roll down and he folded his legs and lay where he happened to be, servants hastily bringing furs and fleeces and lifting him and settling him again. For the length of time it took for the shadow of the sun-staff to move over two stones the king at such times lay as one dead. And in the late night hours he tended to enrage easily, to shout and strike out and to cast things. But in the early and middle afternoon and in the early and middle night times he was as well as ever in those days he was well. As to the first of these periods, it was assumed he was passing well, for his voice could be heard talking -- talking, not groaning, not yelling -- and as for the second of these periods, it was then that he held such gatherings as he held and saw such outsiders as he saw. In the red light of the hearth all men may look reddened and the dancing shadows may make all men look gaunted. But not all men hide themselves in daylight. Day by day the couriers trouped in. Night by night the king himself would see them and let himself be seen by them and from them receive the tidings which he had, of course, already received; for did he not sit upon his stool or lie upon his pallet behind the reed curtain while the courier made report upon the other side? Tirlagusak, grown stout and gray in his IF service as a first captain of the king's men, generally stood forth as the couriers came in, each with the strip of white bark cloth bound about his head, which even toddlebabes knew signified  am the king's mouth and  am the king's eyes and I am the king's ears. Delay me not -- and if I need aid, aid me. "Thirty-deer Hill," the courier might say. Or: "Whalefish Point." Tirlag-usak puts out his hand. "Tally," he says. "Why so slow?" The courier hands over the cut and carved piece of wood. He pants to show how hard' he has run. Of late there had been increasingly less sham in this. Tirlag-usek, of course, knows whence every one of the couriers has come but he sees if the tallystick fits the proper one from his own box. "Report sightings," he directs. "Swiftly." "Good omens from the flocks of birds," says the courier. It would not do to report No sighting. "Eat. Wash. Rest. Return after evening meal." The courier retires, sweating but relieved. His tongue may be the king's tongue but that need not prevent it's being cut. Behind the reed curtain the king's lips writhe, the king's hands move convulsively. The king's face grows redder yet. The redsickness increases fast upon him. And the red-sickness increases fast upon the iron. The courier has gone. Tirlag-usak remains standing. From behind the reed curtain comes an anguished whisper. "Iron? IronT" "The ears of the king hear all things," says the grizzled first captain. After just a breath, he says, "The king already has heard that it is not better. It is not even as it was." After three breaths should come the groan or hiss which has come to mean Go but Tirlag-usak today, after only two breaths, repeats, "The ears of the king hear all things." And says further, "The king has already heard that ten of his men who went north in a search for nains have this day returned with captives." UhhT "One great and one small, as the king already has heard. The eyes of the king have already seen them and it may be that the king's eyes have already recognized one of them as the king's kin to whom the king's mouth will speak more words." Tirlag-usak had spoken somewhat more rapidly than usual. Now he waits for the space of many breaths and he hears each of these breaths from behind the reed curtain. But no question now comes from behind the reed curtain and what now comes thence at last is a cry of such agony and terror and rage that almost the hand of Tirlag-usak touches the woven reed barrier -- almost he stoops to lift it. But he hears other feet, other voices, babble and whisper and shuffle and sigh. Then nothing. Then, only then, he departs. , Later, in the enclosure where they were penned, Arnten suddenly looked up. Arntat, his father, did not pause in his shambling and shuffling, shuffling and shambling, back and forth and back and forth, head weaving like a snake's head from side to side. It seemed he did not share his son's thought, a sudden one which projected into the boy's mind a picture of the mandrakes dancing to the sound of the small drum in his old uncle's medicine hut. The recollection was so clear that the boy sat and watched it inside his head for some time. small drum and his mandrakes, which were the mandrakes of the king and queen, dqnced their witcheryrdance and Mered-delfin watched them from the corner of his eyes and the king and queen watched them full front. Every feeling moved across the king's face, none at all disturbed theface of the queen. The mandrakes moved and the mandrakes moved and they mimed and mimed and they danced. At first, coming forth from their carved wood chest, the mandrakes' motion kept time to the tune of the witchery-drumlet. But after a while and after Mered-delfin had sung to them and hummed to them and chanted to them, whistled and drummed to them, then the pattern of their moving changed. They led and Mered-delfin followed, his fingers and his palms straining to keep up with them, to maintain the proper tune and rhythm upon the drumhead made from the skin entire of a dwarf deer slain without bruise or blood. At length, when they had begun to repeat themselves and no chantings or whistlings could prevail upon them to enact any new pattern, Mered-delfin drummed them back and dancing they went, throwing up their root-thin arms they danced backward upon their root-thin legs, and climbed back into their box at last and closed its lid upon them. Thus the dancing mandrakes. As for the watching mandrakes, they remained in the outer court and would shriek, beshrew, if so much as an unbidden shadow fell. And there they muttered and watched. The chief witcherer licked his mouth and wiped his arm across his sweat-slick face and quickly rolled his eyes. The other two were not looking at him. Swiftly he set his countenance into its accepted lines. He softly clicked his fingernail against the side of the drum. They looked up toward him. "It is as we have seen, it is as I have said, they have enacted the lineaments of the dream and mimed for us the finding and the sounding of All-Caller, the Great Fey Horn -- " The king grimaced and showed his sharp teethAs he leaned forward on his hands and arms he seemed to crouch on all fours. "And where, then," he asked, "is the great good which you said this dream portended for me?" Mered-delfin parted his thin beard from lips and mouth and dared to grin. The very daring of the deed made the king draw back, somewhat relax the tenseness of his pose. Witch-Mered thrust out his hand and arm and described a quarter-circle in the air and let the hand extend two fingers in a point. "Can it be that the sounding IF of All-Caller has lured from across the all-circling sea an enemy who is not to be named? And with him a son begat in treacherous exile? Lured them thence and it must be alone?" His master's grimace grew into a snarl. His eyes blazed red. He seemed like a creature of the forest about to hurl itself from its den. He gave off the rank and bitter smell of denizen and den. "I shall kill them!" His voice rose into a howl. "I shall have them killed! They shall be killed for me and before me!" Jiis tongue lolled out of his mouth. "Limbs broken -- " the howl prolonged itself -- " impaled -- " "Slayer of Bull Mammonts -- " "Greatpire Wolf -- " " -- disemboweled -- " The last word hung, upon the air. The Orfas panted. His sides heaved. He flung up his head and again he howled. In this howl there were no words, but it rang with a lust for vengeance long delayed. In his narrow pen Arntat heard it and stopped in his mindless pacing and hearkened to it and his arms moved slightly and he stood still. The nain-thralls heard it in their tunnels and turned their massy heads on their short necks. Servants heard it and shivered and tremored. King's men felt flesh pucker and hair rise and let their eyes roll to each other, and almost they clean forgot the tales of the ill-struck king, cloistered and shabby and sick and old. "The Orfas," they whispered to one another. "The wolf! The wolf! "King Orfas! Great Wolf! King Wolf!  -- King L ong the wolf-king lay upon his side, panting, wet with sweat. Then he jerked his head and in two silent bounds Mered-warlock was crouching at his head. Said the king, "Not kill him?" Said the witcherer, "Not yet." Said the wolf-king, "When, then?" Said the sage, "When the curse is canceled. When iron is well." The king said no word. His eyes rolled up and his lids rolled down. He nodded. He touched his sage's hand. His queen kneeled beside him and he touched her face. The words last spoken hung upon the air. And the words unspoken, too... allowed to toil together; one of the guards had said with a guffaw that the two of them were barely equal to one nain. Iron was the nains' heritage and though they had been used to it in all its workings at their own speed and though timed toil was inhospitable Jp them, still the nature of mining was not strange. But it was all strange, strange and fell, to Arntat and his son. Only the unswerving friendship of the nains and the fact of his and his son's being still together at all relieved the toil. And worse by far than the toil was the circumstance of bondage, of confinement, of life now being limited to a set series of motions within severely limited space. All thralldoms are one same thralldom. The unremitting labor of the toil, the unremitting oppression of the guards, the ill food, cramped space, uncleanliness, lack of hope, dull hatred, scanted sleep, infinite heaviness of spirit -- are not these the features of all thralldoms? "It is harder. Bear, for thee than we," the nains said. "The tunnel fits we as the hoodskin fits the pizzle." "Then I stoop," he said. Stooped, grunted. "I have stooped before." But his eyes were sunken. And his forehead bruised and scabrous, for he did not always think to stoop, nor they to warn him. And the nains said, "It is harder, Bear, for thee than we. We be used to the smell of iron dust and fire and have forgot the smell of grass and waterflows." "Then I shall grow used to this and shall forget that other, too,"' he said. But he did not grow used to it, he often was coughing, and there was that in his eyes and on his face Avhich seemed to show that he was not forgetting. And one night when the begrudged fire burned low and the older nains had begun f creep into their sleepy-holes and kick the crushed bracken-fern into a brief semblance of softness -- at last that night his voice burst loud with, "But I cannot forget! No! No! I cannot forget!" The older nains crept out from their sleepy-holes, greasy-sided, fetid, close. They laid their hands on his, and on his knees and arms and legs, their huge and calloused hands. And a few dfd so to Arnten, who had crept close to his father; and the heavy nain-hands were light and gentle. "Since thee cannot forget. Bear, cease to try," they said. "And speak it out to we." And the Bear spoke. Not -- at first -- of the free life of sun and stars, grass and waterflows, salmon hunts and honey thefts, of timeless days and world without walls. These all, it seemed, though well remembered in general, had become as it were a design bordered in dyed grasses around a basket rim -- turn it, turn it, now faster, now slower, and see the same sequences following forever; man's mind no longer holding in differentiating recollection any one sequence from any other like it -- so it seemed, when by and by his talk took up those days. t B ut he began with other days, when he was a man's child among other mens' children, he one and Orfas another and Orfas a little older. Not much difference in age and little if any in status, even after both presently realized that Orfas was in a way an uncle -- that Orfas' father was the other's grandfather, the other's father Orfas' half-brother. Both playing and 'tumbling and chasing dogs in one familiar yard onto which opened (so it seemed) the doors of many houses, yet all of them family houses. In those days they were but two among many and each father had several sons and neither more of a rival to each other than either was to any others. All the sons and cousins and uncles of that age had cast their reed practice spears and IF awkwardly fletched their boy-arrows and went creeping and hunting in the mock-forests of the great yard. The years had flown away like the wild swans fly away, yet never do the absent years return as do the absent swans. Boys had grown to men, passed through ordeal and initiation, learned which was their witcherybeast, dreamed medicine dreams, had found women and knew the milk of life to be within them. The hunt had ceased to be play and often man had fought with man, not for proving or for pleasure but for very life; and some had taken life and some had lost it. Some of all that company of boykin had died young beneath the feet or claws or within the jaws of wild beasts or had been dragged down beneath the waves by waterkelpies or by fierce hippotames. Others had made themselves house-holders and gotten children while still barely bearded. Some had sought a name and fame by captaining pursuits of whalefish or werewhales, tree-tigers, or had gone north into the snows to hunt the wild leopard. One had been allured by the bewitchments of the Painted Men (whose skin must not be seen). "There was a certain great tree whose wide-spreading branches we all climbed as boys. It became our gathering place and remained so even when we were men and gathered there more seldom. But whenever we so returned, there we went and there we looked to meet with our comrades and our kin of our age. I had been away and gone a full handful of years, and I returned and sat beneath the tree upon a seat made by an out-thrust of rootburl. There I sat and long I sat and many passed but none were of our old company. And then came one whose shape I knew, whose walk I knew, even before I kenned his face. "ItwasOrfas. "He came and I remembered it was right that I should rise because he was my father's brother of the half-blood, and so we at some length stood and faced each other. He had the slight semblance of a smile on his face. For a while we said no word. And then I said, 'It seems, then, that of all only we two remain, in this corner of the Land of Thule.' "And he said, 'It seems that this be one too many,' and although I did not deeply consider on his words, still, a particle of them must have touched upon a particle in me -- at once I said, 'Then let us both be gone and let us make a compact and both be gone together.' We made our compact and prepared a boat and formed an alliance with others, gathered our gear and store and had the witcherers discover the best day to depart. South-south across the all-encircling sea we went, to the barbar-lands we made our course, sometimes along the coast and sometimes up the great rivers. Betimes we traded and betimes we sold the service of our swords and spears, fighting now for one town or tribe or chieftan, now for another; and betimes we shared the plunder-spoil or betimes we kept it all, as it had been agreed, or as it fell out. And then for a while we went a-roving and a-robbing as we would and as we willed, until the durancy of our compact fell away to expire, and there was only a handful of day-sticks left in the tally-bag. One of us had a dream to take a certain course with our three vessels (as by then they were) and reach on the third day an island all suitable for our needs, which was done, and the day we broke the third stick we made our landfall and the island was as had been seen." E veryone has in his mind the image presented by story and by song, of all the troves and treasures piled in one great glittery heap, "dragon-high, dragonbright, sparkling while its seekers fight -- "but it is not always thus in fact, nor was it so this time. Said he who had dreamed the dream, "Think it clearly for yourselves. Will he who lives alone to claim it be wanting to lug it all back to the ships again?" There was a burst of laughter in which was no sound of love or warmth. It was done so, that the wealth was divided between two ships, which were dismasted, and the third was broken up at once to make a deck for the complete vessel, which was a double-hulled raft of sorts, with a single mast. Then each man set to sharpening his weapons and mostly he sat alone, with no more than now and then a sideways glance to estimate the strength or calculate the skill of another; and sometimes the other, on whom his direct look might fall had been his near-comrade; and some seemed to repent greatly of this compact and to wish themselves away. But only one would live to go away. The fighting field was laid out and deeply trenched around, and then the lots were drawn to select the two for the first combat. Orfas drew one of the black pebbles and a younger man, often a singer of merry songs, drew the other. He sang no song now but muttered charms as they stepped to the center of the field but Orfas did not open his mouth as they faced each other. Then all the rest shouted Ho and in that instant Orfas spat in his opponent's eye and as he blinked, dumbstruck, Orfas rushed him from the side of that eye and with his axe he split through his collarbone. The man fell backward with a great croaking cry. Orfas kicked up the fallen one's kilt and again he spat, now upon his foe's manhood, saying, "That is for the wench you stole of me a two months' since!" and then he brought the axe down once again. And went and took his rest across the trench until every other man should have fought once -- and then he would again be subject to the lots. Not every vector lived to draw a second lot. Now -- said Arntat -- I had killed my man and had killed my second man. And as I sat resting and waiting I chanced to feel an eye strong upon me and I looked up and around and I saw that it was the eye of Orfas. It came to me that I had felt it heavy upon me before but had not fully thought IF about it. And now all at once I recollected what had been said that time we met after long apart, under the tree of meeting; I saying, It seems that only we two remain, and he saying. This be one too many. It came to me so late as then that he had long hated me, and I suppose that inside me that one particle must have returned his feeling or I would not have answered as I did. Well! So be it! I knew then that we two would be the last to stand upon our feet and fight for life and for treasure, winner take all. It was our weird. I do not know at what point in our lives he had begun to hate me -- or why. Perhaps he himself did not know it till he saw me there under the tree of meeting. Perhaps until then he had thought I would not come back, that I was dead; it may be that the deaths of others of our line had gradually or suddenly given him hope that he would be chief over all our line -- and, as our line has always been a line high in Thule, he may have bethought him that he might some day be highest of all in Thule. If I were not. T he fire barely lived at all. Then someone blew briefly on the dull embers and someone placed an armful of bracken on it. "Eh, ah, Bear," an older nain said, "Well I remember when the old asking began to be heard again. By what three things is a king model and answered, By strength, by magic, and by fortune. He who paid the nain-fee then, I shall say plain, was not the worst as ever paid it. But even kings live not forever. And in all that struggle which came then. Bear, some say thee helped the Orfas, he being near of kin. Some say thee befoed him and would have been king instead. I ask not and care I not. Thee has ever been the friend of nains, as nains have ever been the friends of thee. The Orfas winned the kingship and was made king as kings be made and he paid the nain-fee -- then -- full and fair. But the nains be feed to work in iron, not to set snares for bears -- or men. We saw thee in the wildwood dwelling where never manfolk dwell at all, we told it to each other and we told it to the forge, but never did we tell it to the king." "I know." "Such rewards he offered, and such afflictions he threatened as never did we hear before." "I know." "That bitter winter when the birds fell frozen from the sky and the all-circling sea itself was turned to ice, far as ever eye could see, when no track nor trace could be concealed upon the snowy ground and no snow fell more from the fast frozen sky; then the Orfas came for thee, for Witch-Mered did plot it out for him." "I know." "Corby-Mered. Mered-Crow." "His witcheries espied thee out, we knew and said nought, he saw and said all. With a many troops of men they came for thee, and circled around where thee had gone. Where could thee hide? We thought it woe, we whispered low, we told it to the forge, but nains mix not in the affairs of manfolk -- would that man would mix as little in the life of nainfolk! They circled all about where thee had gone, they scanned the still, unbroken snow, they drew their lines inward as wading fishermen draw their nets, they met face to face and arm to arm in the center; bxi Arn they never met." "I know." He said, "I know. I know." Crouching in the darkness marred by feeble flicks of flames, he said, "I cannot forget." A prisoner, he remembered himself a fugitive; though it had seemed bitter then, now long later it revealed its sweetnesses. And he could not forget. The nains sighed and they sighed for him, not for themselves. The king had sought him jhen and found him not, and hunted him again and found him not. King and king's men hunted a man, but he whom they hunted was a man no more. He had become a bear. D ay followed day and toil followed toil and slowly the great rust increased. Its pace was not steady. At times it had seemed to leap onward like a dread grass fire in the dry season, at times it had seemed to pause as though tired. Now for some long while, the redsickness had gone at so slow a step that some did not perceive that it still continued until, perhaps, an axe-head crumbled as it met the wood it could not cleave, or an arrowhead collapsed into a pinch of russet dust when the quiver was moved. And many still had not realized that the pest pursued its course. But the king was not among the many. It was not only that he asked or caused to be asked, "How goes it with iron?" of those who came from far off. He asked always, in hope of hearing what he would hear; but he was not content only to ask. The king had great store of iron, not in the armories alone, but in his own chambers, very near to him. Several times a day, if he did not go to iron things, he had iron things come to him. He looked, he tested, poked, probed, he scraped iron with his fingernails and he scaled with instruments which were not of iron. The king knew the rate each day at which the plague pursued. He knew it and he sickened from his knowing. "Will you not leave off?" the queen asked him with a sigh. "How can #?" he asked, with a sick and sidelong look. There was almost a proverb in those days: The queen grows not old. Some had grown up hearing it and thought it a saying applied to all queens; that women who held the queenly seat, by virtue of the power of that office did not age: But in truth it was a saying which had not been heard before, although likely enough that any woman spared the labors of hoeing and bark-beating and preparing hides and all such toilsome work, who had but to put on her clothes and jewelry and suckle her children -- and sometimes not even such slight, light tasks as that -- likely enough that thus a woman, queen or not, would grow not old IF so soon and certain as the generality of her sex. Still, the saying was a new one, as sayings go. Here lies the truth -- quite early had her hair turned the color of a winter's sky, quite early and quite suddenly. Therefore most of Thule became aware of her when she in some measure already wore the mantle of more years than she had. And also her manner had already then become grave and withdrawn. Since the mass of folk did not observe her slowly losing what were common tokens of youth, gradually the saying came to be heard: The queen growls not old. Some held this to be due to her command of witcherywisdom. Only a few, and they not often and never openly, were lately beginning to whisper that she sipped the cup of the king's own years, that she stayed one age while he aged swiftly. And at least the very last part of this was true. "You can leave off by leaving off." she said. Only a very few lines were to be seen upon her face -- about the eyes, and about the corners of the mouth -- but none at all upon her upper lip. "Rest upon your cot or couch and let others examine iron while you watch. And watch not too closely, that is to say, too nearly. Iron is sorely ill. And you are not too well." A slight snarl moved his mouth, but did not move it much; his next words and the inclination of his head showed how little the snarl was meant for her. "You are ever gentle of me in word and deed -- but I know well what they say out there -- ihdX have caught the ironrot. Perhaps I have. But if I have caught it, I have it -- so what good then be distance? Or any precaution?" He moved nonetheless to his couch. Muttered, "If iron die, then I die. If I die, let iron die. But let we not die, either, nor the barbar folk come swarming -- savages from over the circling sea -- " He let himself down on his couch and leaned on the pile of prime, pelts sewn in bags and stuffed with the downy breast feathers of swans. His eyes were sunken and closed. A long breath shuddered and sighed in his throat and fluttered his cracked and blistered lips. Suddenly his eyes flew open. Those of the queen were fixed upon his. "Why do you think he came back alone? Or did he?" Without giving her time to reply he rolled his head back and forth and clenched his hands. "Only because Mered-delfin feels that this traitor may somehow prove the key to the cure of iron do I spare his life." His teeth showed and sounded. "I should never have spared it before." Another thought worked its way across his ravaged face and the queen drew near and kneeled beside him. "Mered-delfin -- he said that you must prepare to wear many masks and to make many journeys." She gave a slow, single nod. The king said, "Wear one mask now. Make one short journey." F rom time to time word came, presumably from the king, to switch the mining from the open pit to the tunnels or from the tunnels to the open pit. Evidently neither change had perceptibly improved the fate of iron, but from time to time still came directions -- change. Thus on this day the mattocks swung up and down upon the encircling path which went around and around about the great deep pit, up from its narrow center to its wider rim, digging deeper into the walls of ruddy ore. Up the tools went, paused, still scattering dust; down they fell, a grunt, a thud, and some were of bone and some were of stone, but none were of iron. Arnten had been detailed to carry the yoke with its brace of leathern water buckets and a drinking horn slung about his neck on a thong. For the most part he kept his eyes on the uneven footing of the circling path, but when he paused to allow one of the nain-thralls to drink he allowed himself to look up. The yoke had bitten into his flesh, but he preferred it out here in the open pit. He thought they all must. It was like being inside a great clay pot, one only partly made; the pot-woman had rolled the strip of red clay between her palms and coiled it into the rough shape of the pot-to-be, but she had not yet taken up her shell or shard to smooth it. The pit was like a great clay pot and they were inside it, small as mandrakes. Of course, pots had no light blue lids on them. Against the rim, outlined, stood the gXiards. His eyes swung around. The nain groaned gratefully between gulps. All about the rim the guards stood at equal intervals, weapons sticking up like fishnet sticks. But at one place there were a number of them grouped together. They moved and he saw that one of them had no spear, no club, seemed to be dressed differently. Dressed more. The nain gave one last groan, looked enviously at the rest of the water in the pails, licked his mouth and bristles and put the flat of his huge hand between the boy's shoulders below the yoke the nain had effortlessly lifted into place, gently shoved him on his way. The yoke grew lighter as he went from nain to nain. Presently he stood before his father. Ariitat looked at him a moment with a dull gaze. His eyes were filmy. Then they saw the boy. A faint smile rested briefly on his haggard face. Suddenly the boy cried out, "I am sorry! I am sorry. Father, that I ever took away the bearskin!" The yoke was lifted, the buckets put down. "I had set all things to that end," his father said. "As for all this -- it be our weird. Ah, water. Good." He took the horn and dipped it full and raised his head as he raised the horn to his mouth and his eyes settled on something beyond. For a moment he did not move. Then his teeth clicked arid rattled on the rim of the horn. Then he made sounds in his throat. And next he drank. But his eyes never moved. A guard, perhaps thinking that they had been too long over the matter, approached -- the expression on his face was part sneer and part fear. He gave a quick look over his shoulder and with his head motioned to another guard to follow. This first guard set his features for stern speech and gave the hand which held the club a shake or two. But what he was about to say went unsaid, as from above and IF beyond a voice whose syllables the boy could not make out came floating on the air and echoed twice or more. The guard's face twisted in his own effort to comprehend, then showed surprise -- regret -- relief. The guard turned away, turned back, spoke to the guard behind. And this one gave a quick look at the captive father and son, a quick look up and beyond. He shrugged. The two king's men moved apart and drew themselves up in a stance of bravado and watchfulness. Arntat let out a long breath. One hand groped for his son. The other then hung the horn-thong around the boy's neck. A drop of water trickled from it, made a muddy wormtrack through the dust on his chest. Both hands found the yoke and lifted it as the boy bent to receive it. Both hands turned the boy around and told him, plain as words, to be on his way. Arnten went. He went several steps. He heard behind him the grunt and the thud as, rest over, toil returned to, the mattock struck the red-ore ground. Then he stopped and looked up, whither his father had looked, up to where the guards had looked. Nothing was there. His eyes, darting about, saw again the group of guards. They had just begun crossing over the rim and, as one by one they stepped out of sight, he saw once more the unarmed person among them, who paused upon the edge between earth and sky. Pausing for a moment and looking back, this person for an instant seemed to have raised wings poised for flight. Wide-cut sleeves. A woman. She vanished over the rim. A blow caught him in the ribs, a rock fell and bounced. He dodged the second. It came from the guard who had desisted from striking him and his father before. But he had to move and turn his back and yet balance the yoke and the buckets, so he could not run. The third stone caught him. And so did the fourth. their mattocks and began to load the broken ore into the barrows the first captain looked, saying nothing. Afterward he gestured to Arnten and Arntat. "You two -- or you one and half -- " the guards guffawed -- "Take the tools to the tunnel. The rest of you to the forge." Two by two, the nains stooped and took up the barrow poles. Low at first like a mutter, then a rumble, as though the voices had descended from mouth to throat and chest; then so very high it seemed almost that they sang not at all as they padded along the curving path -- and then cry after cry, as great wave after great wave breaking upon the rocks -- The swans fly overhead A nd the nains see them. The moles tunnel through, the earth A nd the nains see them. The guards could not ken the words, but the sound of the chant made them uneasy. They howled and mocked, they threw stones, small ones but vicious and thrown hard. The king's fire gives no light. The queen's light gives no fire. Evil, evil, are these times. These carrion times, consumed by crows. When will the wizard's mouths be fed, A nd the nains see it? The tools were gathered and bundled together like great faggots of firewood. Father and son bowed their backs beneath their loads and turned their faces toward the tunnel. It was not the load that made Arntat tremble now, nor was it his last labor of the day that made him sweat and gasp. his steps and he craned his neck at the darkening sky as though he would never see it againr Beyond them the guards seemed to have been taken by a frenzy, stoning the nains and shouting and feinting at them with clubs and spears. But above all such noise the wild chant continued to be heard. The king's evil rots like rust, A nd the nains see it. When will the stars throw down their spears, A nd the nains see it? Then may this kingdom turn to dust, A nd the nains see it! S ometimes the bigger Am trudged back and forth in the tunnel, head stooped low -- perhaps for safety, perhaps from apathy -- hands against the sides as though at any moment he might push one or another of them aside. Sometimes he shambled on all his limbs, head weaving from side to side. But he was sitting motionless when the dry bracken rustled as it sometimes did, as though remembering when it was alive and yielding to each slight breeze. And a woman came in. She first saw the smaller Arn, and for just a moment the smooth composure of her face was disturbed -- how curious, then, her expression! He moved at once to his father's side and her face was as before. In a single motion, effortless, graceful, she seated herself, her legs tucked under, her hands resting in her lap. Son looked at father and he thought his father looked as though he had always been looking at her. "Yet another son gotten, Ahazmazra," she said. "And so much younger than the others." She made a slight sound as if pleasantly relaxing from some not too onerous task and she said, "You will want to know about your other sons." Lips barely moving, he said, "Either they died or they made their peace. I can do them no good. Nor they me." Calmly: "You may do good for this one then," she said. This one, crouching next to his father, was not much thinking how good could be done for him. Part of his mind was entranced by the appearance of her. Part of his mind scurried and searched, as a squirrel rousting nuts, for certain words his father had said -- when? Long, long ago. When they were free. 'Tis nought to you what's my name-then. But now he knew, his fullfather's name then was Ahazmazra and if this woman knew it IF she had known him then. Her underdress, beneath which her feet were tucked, was all of blue. He had never seen so much cloth of blue before, blue was a precious color, a sky-color, and he had heard more than one say that farfar-away at the farthermost edge of the world dwelt the Sky Gatherers and that all the blue in the world came from them, scarce, scarce, precious and beautiful blue: but his old uncle had said this was in no way true and that blue was made from an herb called woad; it did not flourish in Thule, was brought from the barbar-lands and traded for amber, weight for weight. Ahaz-mazra, And not Arn. My other begotten sons... made upon empty bearhide in lawful bedchamber. Her sleeveless overdress was the whitest white which he had ever seen, paler than the common pallor of bark-cloth, and came to her knees. Round yoke and hem were broad and complex broider-work in several colors, flowers and leaves and thicket -- something else which he could not quite determine and which peered out of the thicket. Around her neck was a rope of pieces of amber wrapped in golden wire. Her face was strong, serious, totally self-assured. Although she had come from the free, the outside world, she had come neither to triumph nor to condescend. I have dabbled. Why was that word in his mind?... have dabbled , , , Or should it be dappled? That made no sense. Yet the memory that went with the words was of his father's face dappled by a leaf shadows as he held for a passing moment a branch he presently threw upon the fire. I have -- "I have done ill enough for him by getting him," said his father (now) to the strange woman. Who said a strange, strange thing indeed. "You may get him back with you whither you both came -- on a ship already prepared in all things -- at dawn tide three days hence," she said. "You have only to renounce the curse on iron and to swear by your shadow and by his that it shall stay renounced. And you may even delay compliance to the last -- when the third day's sun comes up and shadows first appear -- upon the very shore beside the ship." The sick, confused look, which had been absent since her entrance, now returned to the man's face. He muttered, uncertainly. "The third day's sun?" "It is three days' journey to where the boats are." He squinted, trying to resolve all into sense. Then he in one swift rush was on his feet and Arnten cried out and put his hands on his own head as though feeling the pain of his father's would crash upon the tunnel top. But that one or two fingers' breadth away the man's head stayed, stooped. The woman had not moved. She did not even raise her eyes. And the man fell to a charging position, his eyes level with hers, his face very close to hers, his eyes now suffused with blood. "Innahat -- erex," he cried, "ah, eh! Does that crow still live, that he has stolen all the wits of thee? 'Wither we both came?' 'By ship?' 'Renounce the curse on iron?' What babblement is this? From nowhere did we come by ship! No word of any curse on iron heard I ever till my cub here did mention it, before we fell into the nets of your long-tongued lord! 'Sear by my shadow and by his?' Eh, ah! By my shadow and by his, then -- " M ore than once, after having returned in from out, Arnten had felt sickened and dizzied. The sun might have been the cause, beating as it did on him ail day. Such a moment came upon him suddenly as he wondered what great oath his father was about to swear upon their twain shadows. He closed his eyes. He did not hear if the oath were sworn. He did hear the distant droning of the nains as they returned, as their voices rose suddenly and dropped again. The strange woman was now gone, he saw. He saw his father's eyes were fixed on his and ail manner of strange things he saw in them. "Eh, ah. Bear! What odd thing we seed by yonder tunnel-mouth but two, or three! How 't did leap! A hare! Was 't an omen, eh?" "I ken't not, if omen 'tiz," another nain said. "But 'twas as thee say, senior Aar-heved-heved-aar, a great puss-longears indeed, and would I'd a snare to catch she doehare, do she return -- eh? -- cub?" For this other nain looked now at Arnten, who had stood up, although still dizzied, waving his hand, trying frantically to put a thought into words before the thought fled. "The hare came in!" he said, almost stammering. "The hare came in! What way she came in, would she not go out?" no The man put an arm around his son. The comforting nain-drone and nain musk surrounded them. The boy's head drooped upon his father's side. He felt weak and sore and hungry. Food would come. Words sang in his head and faint fires danced there. Bee and salmon, wolf and bear. A rough hand rested gently on him. Tiger, lion, mole and hare. Fetters do not bind the moles. A nd the nains see them. A AR-heved-heved-aar that night sent a youngster hain to search out the passage where the hare had run. Guards did not trust the lower levels at night, would not even if the nains were gone. Posts and watch fires were at pit mouth only. Even wind and rain could not drive the guards more than a few feet inside after full dark. The nain-senior knew this, but did not trust the slickskins as cowards any more than he trusted them as braves; he chose to lessen all risks. It was not true that nains had full vision in the dark, but in this wise their eyes were in between those of men and those of beasts. The younger nain reported that although the tunnel appeared to be a blind gut, yet it did not end clean. A huge pile of debris at one end seemed to show that it might not always have been a blind gut -- that perhaps the roof had fallen in at one time. And, more than this, the younger'nain had sought and found the scent of the hare and it had seemed to go on up the pile of detritus to its peak. ' "But I clambered not after it," he concluded. "Wisely," said the senior. "For though I be as much a-zeal as any to be gone from here, needless risks we must not take. It is man who is impetuous, but we nains do be deliberate, so -- " "Feed the wizards." Aar-heved-heved-aar, true to his penultimate word, reflected. Then, "Eh, ah. Bear. Say thee well." "Feedf the wizardsr The nain-senior looked up at the man -- for all his breadth, the-nain was no taller than Arnten -- and nodded his massive head. "That must be our aim, hard task though it be. It is the coming death of iron which has turned this king's head mad and turned his hands against us all. His need be great. But is our need not greater? If he do die tonight and tomorrow we be told that we be free, what then? Iron be our life, without iron we be dead nains. 'Tiz but the first step, getting gone from here. He will pursue we, but if he should not, what, eh? We do make the hoe, but we hoe not; we have traded iron and iron's work for most our food. We make the spearhead, but we cast no spear. And if we will to eat in the woods, as the wild brawnes do -- say, ah! -- be not the wild brawnes a fitter match for us, be we not armed with iron?" He uttered a long, shuddering cry and his head shook so from side to side that his thick hair rustled upon his broad and shaggy shoulders. "Men gender much," he said, "and the men-wives bear often. Nains gender seldom for our passion be for the forge and few are the nain-bairns our shes do get. Before the Great Bear took starfire and gave it we and beteached we how to delve and deliver metal from the earth's belly and to mold and shape it as the bears do mold and shape their cubs -- before even the yore-tide -- men were few and nains were few and lived they twain folk far apart, for broad and long be Thule. "But since then men have swarmed -- yet the nain's numbers do stay the same. Still be Nainland far from menland, eh but ah, it be not so far as once "twos! Men can hunt without iron, men can farm without iron, men can still beget them many mennikins without iron; men can do without iron and I betell thee this: If men may live without iron, men may live without nains. The echo of his voice was long in his listeners' minds. He divided them into nine watches and to each watch he assigned a third part of one night. And the first watch for the first third of the first night began at once to clear away with slow care the rubble at the end of what they had begun to call The Doe-Hare's Den. The nains stripped off their leather kilts and piled loose stone therein, then gathered up the corners four and slung the juried bags over their shoulders and trudged away on noiseless feet to empty their loads well out of sight in yet another disused corridor. And then to return. Thus, while the work went on, none lost more rest than one-third of every third night; and, after many nights, the toilers in the Doe-Hare's Den, pausing a moment for rest, recognized in their nostrils the bitter, faint, familiar smell of woodsmoke -- and recognized that an aperture, of whatsoever a nature, existed between them in their captivity and the unfettered outside world. returned to the boy. Remembering woodsmoke and firelight and father's words, he said, "The strange woman who was here. Was she the queen of love with whom you dabbled and dallied?" A silence. "Eh, she was." "Be that why the king do hate thee?" A growl. "She said he never knew." "Then why do he hate thee?" A grunt. "Has thee'fofgot my tale of how he and me vowed a compact and at the end stood face to face to fight for treasure and for life, winner take all?" "No, I remember that." A cough.' A second, longer, deeper cough. A gasp. "I won. He lay at my feet. He groveled and gibbered. I raised him up, gave him half the plunder and I spared his life. That is why. For this he cannot forgive me. ing of dry and dusty voices and he knew it was the wizards that he heard. He heard them droning as though ineffably bored and weary, as though repeating over and over to themselves, lest they forget, forcing their dust-choked voices and thinking with dust-choked minds, at a great distance away. repeating something of great importance which must not be forgotten -- The bear dies, iron dies. The bear dies, iron dies. As the bear comes to life, so must iron come to life. As the bear comes to life, so must iron come to life. A pause, a faint gasp, the click of voices in dry, dusty throats. And again and again the droning recommenced. The bear sleeps in the ground, so must iron sleep in the ground. As the bear sleeps its death-sleep-life, so must iron... The bear dies, iron dies... Endlessly he heard this. The sound ebbed and fadded away as he felt himself gently rocked. Whatr "Bear's boy, it be time." Time for iron, time for... But the droning voices were away and gone. Had he heard them echoing thinly in a cavern somewhere? Or was it only the familiar echo of the nain voices in the mine? Confused, already forgetting, he got up. Still half asleep he followed, sometimes stumbling, as the men filed from their sleeping-cell into unguarded tunnels. In the DoeHare's Hole he saw the now familiar sight of and heard the now familiar sounds of debris and detritus being shoveled and scraped into the carrying-skins. But while this still went on he heard those who watched and who waited discussing whither they should go when they had made their escape from the mines: and should they go in one body for defense, or should they split up and make their several -- or it might be their many -- ways, in order to divide and so to weaken their pursuers. IF He did not hear if an answer had been concluded, let alone what it was, for Aar-heved-heved-aar took hold of him and said, "Bear's-boy, 'tis thought they have broke through up ahead. Get thee up then, for thee be but small as be compare to us and maybe can find out -- " The senior nain did not finish his phrase, but propelled Arnten forward, saying, "Up, then, and up and up." Though so much diminished, still the pile was high and required qlimbing. He half scuttled and he half slid as he set to climbing. And he had somehow a fear that, though he went on his way slow enough, still, he might strike his head there in the darkness; and from this fear he went slower. And every few paces he paused and thrust his hands forward. And by and by he felt his hand as it scraped the face of the cavern suddenly fall through into nothingness, and he fell forward a bit and he grunted rather than cried out. And ahead of him, where yet he could not see, ahead of him in the black, black, blackness, something moved which was even blacker (though how he knew this he did not know). Something made a sudden movement and a sudden noise and he had the impression that something had been waiting and hearkening, listening very closely, he had an impression of a head cocked to one side -- And before he himself could do more, the sound from the other side of the hole ceased to be startled, flurried, resolved itself into the flap of wings in the darkness. And he and all of them heard the sudden sharp cry of a crow. And again, farther away. And once more, faint. N OW the work quickened, concentrated and focused on enlarging the opening. An opening onto the world at large? Or into another cave? If the latter, still, this next cave must itself open onto the world at large, else how came any bird to be there? But the stone or bone blades of their picks no longer sank, into rubble. Either they sprang back as they were swung against the lips of the scrape-hole or they shattered. The nains began to mutter. Then Arn came forward on all fours, reached out his long, shaggy arms, felt and pawed and groped in the darkness. "It seems that two slabs of rock all but meet face to face here," he said. "Some bit of softer stone did rest between them, as might a piece of stale bread between a dead man's teeth -- "Now, part of that had weathered away, else that hare had neither entered nor left -- and we have battered away the rest -- but the teeth be fixed firm. Somehow we must crack the jawbones, then. So -- " His voice fell into a muttering growl. "We must break the jaws of the rock," he said once more. "How?" he muttered. "How? How?"" . of coals made shadows as the king moved slowly and painfully upon his bed. Something scuttled outside the chamber. Someone entered on hands and knees. The king lifted his head, stopped, groaned, rubbed his face, moaned. "You smell of mold and of .trees," he whispered. "Well -- what?" Merred-delphin panted a moment. Then: "Slayer of -- " The king made a noise of loathing, deep in his throat. "Damn all fulsome phrases! None's here now save thee and me. Whatr "Wolf -- the mine-thralls -- trying to break -- " His wind failed, his voice caught in his scrannel chest and throat. His master finished the words. "To break out? Eh? To -- " He struggled up, hissed his pain, rested on his elbows. Raised his voice. "Woy.'" he cried. "The captain of the guard! Hoy! Hoy! Hither! Flay him, does he slumber? Hither! Here! Now! Hoyr T he bear half-slid, half-crawled backward. The air in the hole was thick. "Bring bracken," he said. "Bring all the bracken that be. Not all of ye!" he called sharply. "The crew of the first third -- go!" What might have been confusion was at once averted. "The crew of the second third -- to that line of tunnel where the pit props be fallen and bring, for the first fetch, the smallest and the softest pieces of the dry-rotted old props -- " He waited till they had got them gone and next he said, "Senior Aar. We must needs soon make fire." A moment, then the elder nain murmured, "Ah, bear, that be no easy thing, thee knows." "I do know!" "They take care -- and always have -- the accursed smoothskins, that we have no flint about us -- to name but one lack -- and though we might break the pick-handles, their wood be not -- " "And this, all this, I know. And the knows and all of ye know what I mean. Well. The cub and I will withdraw." Softly, as it might have been reluctantly, the senior nain said, "Nay the twain of ye may bide. 'Tis no time to stand upon custom." He made a sign to the remaining nains and, though somewhat slowly, they joined hands. There was scarce room even at the broader end of the Doe-Hare's cave for a wide circle, shoulder to broad shoulder they stood, hand in hand, leg against leg and foot against foot. All was silent and, as silence will when thought upon, silence gradually gave voice. Silence whispered to itself, and silence began to sing a little song. It was a curious bit of song and it hissed and it crackled as the nain feet shuffled, as the nain forms shifted themselves in the darkness, as the small and cramped circle went around and around in the darkness, softly stamping feet upon the rubble-strewn floor. Arnten stared into the blackness and, as it will when stared long into, the blackness began to give light, a faint blue light, a spark, a worm, a glow that had no outline and faded. And then did not fade. Arnten felt the hairs on his flesh IF rise as his skin puckered in some thing the far side of fear. He saw in the darkness the forms of the nains and he saw their hairs risen and he saw upon that nimbus of hair outlining each head and each body a nimbus of blue light: and as the nains so softly-softly muttered the lights wavered and as the nains slowly circled around the blue lights slowly undulated and as the nains slowly and softly stamped their feet the blue lights softly hissed and softly crackled. The dance did not cease when the first crew returned, arms laden with the great coarse bracken-fern; Arnten gestured and they passed their burdens, bundle by bundle, to the end of the cave. First they stuffed it through the still small opening into the outside world and then, when this would take no more, piled it all around about. Then the second crew began to come back, stripped to the buff, their garment-skins used as carryalls for piles of wood from the fallen pit-props, soft from long dry rot, and Arnten gestured again and they piled wood on the bracken. And still the slow, strange dance went on and on. Arn, in a few words, bade two more crews begone. They must bring back the larger stumps and shafts of the wooden columns used here and there to hold up the tunnel roof. The dancing nains, meanwhile, had danced nearer and closer to what was now a bosky mass of dryrotted wood and bracken. The dancing nains were pressed together almost as though to make one enormous grotesque creature with many limbs, a sort of nainipede; and this grotesque heaved and huddled close to the spiled up brackenfern which had been its bed. Still it sang and still the blue lights wavered at the ends of its hairs; and then the blue light gathered itself together into one mass and the nainipede went dancing back on its many limbs. The ball of light floated up and bounced along the rough roof of the cave and settled upon the pile of wood. It seemed next to snuggle and to creep its way deep into the bracken and then there was a Hash and the blue was gone and there was the familiar red and orange and yellow of fire. And the song was silent but in its place they heard the crackling of flames. by the curtained door and flapped wide black sleeves. "My men have them safe now?" the Orfas demanded. His chief witcherer opened his mouth and closed it, long thin tongue fluttering. Then he said, "They will not go." Then seemed the King confused. "How now? Woii't go? The nains?" Merred shook his dry old head, his long nose seeming to point all ways at once. "Not the nains. King Wolf! The men! Your men! The king's men will not go! They will not go down into the mine! It seems -- I should have remembered that -- " His voice stuck, came out again at last. "They fear the deep, they fear the darkness, assuredly they fear the nains and their witchery." The old wolf let waste no time in rage and imprecation, but he rubbed one rusty wrist with one rusty hand and he said in the voice of one who thinks, "Then what is it which they may fear e'en more, my crow, than the nains and the deep and dark -- eh?" They looked at each other. The king's eyes went past the old vizier and the old vizier turned; and together they exclaimed a word. rotted wood that both together burned with minimal smoke, but smoke even so there was. Arn and Arnten and the nains stood in the main corridor and with their garment-skins they flapped and fanned away the smoke. And now and then they stopped and took sips of water from the buckets, but only sips. A thin glow of firelight lit the somber halls of underground and over this overlay a thin haze of smoke. The fire dance of the nainfolk had ceased. He leaned against his father and in his body he was in the mine-cave and beside his father, yet in his mind he was beside his old uncle in the old man's medicine hut. And there was the sound of a dance... the sound of a drum... Out of the dimness and the deep, deep darkness came the figures of men. It was no vision or dream -- here, in the mine and out of the darkness of the mine-tunnels, they came. "The guards," said Aar. "Aye, ehh'ng, be sure, be sure, 'twas that skulk-crow as sped the word to their crank lord." And in the naintongue he said a word. The men came not fast ahead, they moved slowly, irresolute. And in the dim glow of the fire and the thin haze of the smoke the nains began another sort of dance. They moved their feet up and down and they leaned forward and they waved their long, long arms. They did not actually move an ell along the tunnel floor, but in the misty, swimmy light, dim and flickering, it seemed as though they did move, did advance; and the men, moaning, dismayed, retreated. Then at the edge of his ear Arnten heard the sound which had tapped below the surface, the thin tap-tap, tump-tump, of a witchery drum. And the soldiers milled about, cried out in alarm and unease. A spurt of fresh air cleared vision for a moment and a way ahead and now it was Arnten who cried out and a murmur went up. For back, far back, as far back as they could see in the main corridor came a marching column, a marching double column, a dancing double column, of figures which were manlike but were no men, awaving in their tiny hands the menace of tiny spears. And the witch-drum beat and the witch-things came and the men cried out and turned and turned. Said one nain voice, amused and scorning, "Do they come at us with mandrakes, then? Nay'ng! The children o' the forge know a power or two for that." Swiftly said the elder Aar, " 'Tis not against us that they deploy the mandrakes, 'tis to force on the men o'the king, who know no power, let alone two, for that." Arn, without one word, picked up one of the water buckets and went straightway into the smokeIF filled hole of the hare, pausing a moment at the entrance to pick up a fallen bit of bracken and dip it in the water and crush the dripping frond against his nose and mouth. In a moment came a hissing sound and a cloud of steam rolled out and all firelight was quenched. But not for long, for torches now made appearances farther down the main corridor. The men, fearing the mandrakes more than the nains, came closer. Arn emerged, stumbling, seized another bucket and again entered the cave. Again there was a hissing and a sizzling and again a cloud of steam. And a long pause -- and Arnten held his breath and feared. And then the bear emerged again. "The fire be out," he said, low and urgent. "And now it comes time to take these two last buckets of water and toss them on the hot rock. Do they crack well, we may all yet take our leave. And if not -- " He shrugged. A huge mass of smoldering bracken was dragged out, picked up, heaved toward the advancing soldiery -- who cried out, fell back into the smoke and gloom. And the drums beat and the mandrakes moved. Now, all at once, all were in the place whence the hare had fled. Somehow there was light, light of a thin gray sort, obscured by steam, by smoke, but light. And Arnten felt the floor hot, hot against his feet and hissed his pain. He saw his father toss one bucket, heard him toss the second. Heard a cracking sound. And a second. Heard the nains give cry to their satisfaction. Heard the almost desperate cries of the king's men as they charged. Heard the sound of spears striking against wall and floor. Heard the sound of spear striking against flesh. Heard his voice raised in a wail as he saw his father stumble upon one knee with one spear into him. Saw Aarheved-heved-aar fall and saw him crawl and saw him writhe and heard his death rattle. Saw the bear seizing the very rims of the hole of the rock and smelled his flesh burn and saw his shoulders writhe and saw the rock face crack still more. Cried out and wailed again as he saw his father turn toward him, face grim and hideous and smudged with ash and soot and blood spurting from nose and mouth. Saw that protruding from his father's flesh which he knew was the bloodied head of a spear. Felt his father seize him up and swing him around and protect his smaller body and thrust him through the hole in the rock whence came the milky light of dawn. Felt the last great thrust of that great body and saw the mine vanish from sight and felt the hot rock graze his side and saw the sky and felt himself fall. And roll. And move, crawling, crawling. Leaves in his mouth, dust in his nostrils, smoke all about him. Then no smoke about him. Writhing on his belly like a wounded snake. No more smoke. Shouts and cries in his mind alone. Then silence falling in his mind. His father. His father's face. His father's deed. At this last moment his father had said no word. His deed had been enough.  T here is a theory that our progress must be represented by an asymptotic curve; that is, the higher we climb, the steeper the rate of change. If the predictions I've seen are even reasonably close, there will be far more change in conditions and in what we call our body of fact in the next thirty years than in the last hundred. This makes it difficult for science fiction to predict the future with even a crude approximation of what will happen by the year #. In fact, writers in search of a reputation for prophecy can't be sure whether to produce wishdreams of glory or nightmares of man's ultimate doom. Most of the dooms pictured a century ago turned out to be nonsense, as did the utopias. And while we seem to be living at a time of ill omens, those who seek the easy answer by predicting horrible futures are no closer to probability than the most optimistic. But nobody with any serious right to be heard ever claimed that science fiction was primarily prophecy. At best it is merely an attempt to. create a consistent, reasonably rational background picture of what a future might be like. The science in our science fiction doesn't really relate to the hard body of physical facts that might be used by an engineer, though we try not to violate such facts unwittingly. Instead, we try to use some of the techniques of the supposedly impractical, "pure" scientist; we look over the known facts to find what isn't fully known; we devise theories, carefully weeding out what is inconsistent or already disproved; and finally we test our theories to see whether they work. Of course, we test them only as fiction, with the proof being the workability of our future world as a place where our story characters can function as more than shadows. Unfortunately, much of the material now being written doesn't operate that way. A great deal of it cops out by taking something that is currently in the news and acting as if it would be even more so a hundred years from now. Other current writing, all too often, borrows from past vision without adding current vision. As a result, I find it difficult to locate material that has any real insight, either visionary or nightmarish, except for the fortunate reprinting of stories done a decade or three ago. However, there is now a series of books which should be read by everyone who enjoys good fiction re the future. These are reprints, long unavailable except in rather expensive hard-to-find editions. They are the so-called juvenile books of Robert A. Heinlein, currently being issued in soft covers by Ace, at a price of # each. Many of them are the top examples of what good science fiction should be. They represent the work of one of our best writers at the very peak of his form. Don't let the term "juvenile" fool you. The stories are partially told from the viewpoint of characters who haven't reached legal maturity yet; but so was van Vogt's Slan and nobody considered that a juvenile story. The outlook, the writing, the philosophy and the complexity of the Heinlein pieces are completely adult. Above all, they present a highly structured, thoroughly imagined and consistent picture of a future for each novel. On the average, nobody has done as good a job of making futures real as Heinlein, and these books are among his best in that respect. Between Planets is most certainly not a picture of the future, according to what we now know scientifically about Venus. This was written twenty years ago, before radio astronomy and the Venus probes. It uses a picture of Venus that is hopeless, in the light of later discoveries. Here the planet is the old-fashioned waterdrenched world, covered with deep fogs and mists, with some islands sticking up from the great shallow seas. As hard prophecy, it fails miserably. But that doesn't matter too much. The water-world is complete, livable and lived in, with technologies and attitudes that fit it. It has its own intelligent race and a bunch of alien creatures that are completely delightful. And it is one of the better stories of an attempt by a colony world to break from the strictures of Earth in a sort of interplanetary war -- one logically worked out for its space "battles" and its eroding, desultory home battles. T his was fairly early in Heintein's work in the juveniles. The protagonist is quite acceptable to any adult reader -- and he most definitely doesn't stay a juvenile -- but some of the mechanics of the solution creak a bit. Still, Between Planets stands up todayletter than many current adult books, and there is no writing down in it. When it first appeared, it was good enough to be used as a serial by one of the most adult of the adventure magazines, at a time when science fiction had to be better than most other material to win acceptance. Red Planet, in a way, lets down a bit. Again there is the completely believable development of rebellion, this time by the colonists on Mars against the Earth-based Company and its corrupt local representatives. Again, local fauna and flora are worked out so well that the book is justified by its aliens alone. But much of this seems somehow more standard in its development than the Venus book. The science is not as far from current theories -- Mars was better known than Venus -- but it fails in indicating too rich a supply of oxygen on Mars. But when we get to The Rolling Stones, all the early slight compromises Heinlein made to the age of his readers is discarded. This must be a delight to young readers, but it's twice as much fun for those who are adult. The main viewpoint characters here are a couple of teen-age twins. But the whole Stone family -- mentioned in the later adult Moon Is a Harsh Mistress -- is the real "hero" of the story. Unlike most of the series. Stones is one of Heinlein's fairly rare stories with a completely humorous slant. The humor doesn't impede the plot, which is a bit free-wheeling but still excellent. My own favorite is Star Beast. Given a period of interstellar exploration, it seems inevitable that some odd pets would be brought back to Earth. But suppose one of those pets, a hundred-odd years later, turned out to be a ranking member of one of the most important, sapient and rambunctious races in the universe? Suppose it didn't particularly want to return, but the total future of interstellar peace depended . on finding and returning it? That's just the beginning of the complications in this novel. The real hero isn't a youngster, either. He's the IF real head of all interstellar government on Earth, though lacking the title. He's also allergic to certain aliens, though he has to deal warmly with them. This novel also is brightened by as unpleasant a mother and as precocious a girl friend as can be found in science fiction. Heinlein uses them, among other things, as pointers toward the radical changes that have to be made in our society and its mores when we enter an age of interstellar negotiations. His concept of a future earth is complete not merely surface treated. His people think differently from us, act differently, and have to find different ways of making the same instincts and methods serve them. If sociology and psychology are to be treated as sciences in our field, this book stands out as one of the better examples of how to do so. The science of sociology forms the background also for Tunnel in the Sky. The tunnel here refers to a "tube" between dimensions, in which it is possible to transfer from one world to another. Earth has obviously just opened up colonization of various habitable worlds discovered by the tunnel. And it is undergoing some rather radical upsets in its social customs. Among these is the need to prepare its younger people for the unknown hazards they may face on other worlds. One method of training is a course in survival. The graduating class has to pass a simple test. It's members are dumped onto a planet -- type and conditions not specified -- and left there to take care of themselves for two weeks. They can take any equipment with them which they can carry -- though Heinlein indicates what he thinks is the best equipment. At the end, those who survive are graduated; those who fail are simply dead. Nice. And probably totally unconvincing to most readers of this quick summary who cannot believe that our attitudes toward young men and women could change that radically. But historically, Heinlein is on solid ground, and he develops his theme so well that it makes total sense in the story. A local accident makes it impossible for a student group to use their return "tunnel." The time for return comes and goes -- and more time goes. And those who have survived for this long gradually begin to realize that they jnay never be called back. Now, on a world about which they still know very little, and with only rudimentary equipment for a twoweek survival test, they must set out to build a viable way of life for their colony and, hopefully, to become a real world in time. But this is also a story of sociology, as I said. Heinlein has used ( Please turn to page # One morning the dead of Earth awoke with a great cry. They were on the banks of a river of a planet somewhere in a star swarm. They were naked and in an interminable valley which offered no food -- at first. The old had been rejuvenated, so that an eighty-year-old, for instance, again had his twenty-five-year-old body. The diseased were healthy: the crippled walked straight; the misshapen were reshaped. Moreover, all men had awakened circumcised and were permanently without facial hair. All women were virgins again but forever sterile. After the horrible fears of hell and the shocks of resurrection were over, humanity began to look around and to construct new societies within the physical limitations of the Rivervalley, their psychic conditioning and the changed rules of human life. The River was usually one to one and one-half miles wide, though it sometimes became a narrow strait or a lake. The only animal life consisted of the small earthworm and the fish, which ranged from troutto whale-sized. On each side of The River was a gently sloping plain a mile wide, then two or so miles of hills and then perpendicular unscalable mountains # feet and more. The plains were covered with short grasses, the hills with tall grasses. The other plants were bamboo ( which is a grass), giant oaks, pine, fir, yew and the indestructible non-Terrestrial irontrees. Vines with huge, varicolored blooms grew on the latter. The temperature rose to an estimated #" F at #:# P.M. and fell to #" F around #:# A.M. The rainfall was unvarying. The estimated population density was #-#I persons per square mile -- total population was # billion or so. The River was supposed long. It circled this world like a Midgard Serpent, issuing from the north polar sea and, after much twisting across one hemisphere and cutting back around the south pole, twisted back up the other hemisphere and emptied into the north polar sea. Along each bank of The River, at one-mile intervals, and also in the hills, were huge mushroomshaped stones. Three times a day they discharged enormous electrical energies derived from some place -- or mechanism -- deep in the planet s guts. Mankind had awakened possessing metal cylinders containing snap-down racks and dishes. These cylinders -- the grails -- when placed on top of the stones, yielded food, liquor, tobacco, marihuana cigarettes and cigars and  dreamgum after the energy discharge. Apparently the grails contained devices, inside false bottoms, for converting energy to matter. Mankind was where he could live simply but with no fear of freezing or dying of thirst or starvation or bacterial or viral disease or cancer or almost any of the scourges that had made life on Earth a hell. Sixty percent of mankind had been strung along The River in a sequence roughly corresponding to the chronology of their existence on Earth. Thus the earliest men (and subhumans  of circa # B.C. were closest to The Riverhead and the latest, born circa #-# A.D., were near the mouth. (Mankind had been wiped out in # A.D.) Mixed with the # of a particular time and nationality were # of a minority from another time and nationality and # apparently chosen at random from any time and place. But # of the total was composed of #th-century humans, these being the most numerous of mankind and the most widely scattered. Though many people clung to the idea that their resurrection was of supernatural origin, many thought they knew better. It was rumored that one man had awakened in a strange and frightening place where the dead were being recreated, refleshed and prepared for their second deaths and recreation upon the planet s surface through some unknown means. This man ( who, said some, was Richard Francis Burton, the #th-century English explorer, linguist, and author) had seen the warders of that chamber of the dead, who looked just like men. During this time, the first twenty years after Resurrection Day, Samuel Langhorne Clemens -- or Mark Twain -- had been looking for two things. One was his Earth wife, Olivia. The other was iron. He had two dreams, neither of which seemed likely to come true. Sam Clemens had met a colossal subhuman ( whom he called Joe Miller) who told a strange story. Joe had managed to get up through the mountains surrounding the north pole and had seen a tail pale tower in a misty sea and a flying machine descending towards it. Then he had fallen to his death and awakened near Clemens. Sam was fired-up about this; he thought that the beings responsible for this world must have their headquarters in that tower. He would build a boat and go all the way up The River, if it took him a hundred years to do it. Then, somehow, he would storm the tower and discover the secret of resurrection. For the trip Sam wanted a great river boat such as he had piloted on the Mississippi in his youth. Unfortunately the planet seemed to have little iron ore. However, he met a Norseman, Eric Bloodaxe, who had an axe made from a nickel-iron meteorite. With Erics Norsemen and Joe, Sam set out down TheRiver to find a large supply of meteorite metal. He found it, but not as he had planned. A giant meteorite struck the valley and the tidal waves almost killed the searchers. But they located the iron and began mining. From the first, to attain his boat, Sam had had to make deals and compromises he would otherIF wise have scorned. He had to become partners with the man who had once been King John of England, He had to murder Eric Bloodaxe, And Eric, before dying, had sworn that when Sam did get to the end of The River, he would find Eric waiting for him, and Eric would kill him and thus send him off down The River a million or so miles, Sam would never get to the misty tower, nor would he keep his fabulous River boat, Sam was to have nightmares thereafter about Eric, One night Sam awoke in his hut to find a hooded man crouched beside him. This man, whom Sam was to call The Mysterious Stranger -- or X -- was one of the group that had created this planet and the resurrection. Though an Ethical (as these beings called themselves), he was a renegade. He told Sam that he had used his powers to deflect the giant meteorite and to deactivate the repulsive system that would ordinarily have sent the falling star past the planet. His fellows suspected that they had a traitor among them, but none of them knew for sure. Sam was to build his great boat and take a crew upRiver. He would be aided by eleven men whom The Stranger had chosen to storm the tower and wreck the plans of the Ethicals. These men would come secretly to Clemens and introduce themselves, Sams problems as co-consul of Parolando, the state formed to build the boat, kept him busy day and night. One of his problems was getting enough wood as fuel for the mills and plastic factories. And Parolando had to trade for -- or gain by conquest -- materials and ores other states had: pryolite and bauxite to make aluminum, tungsten and iridium for electrical components. Adding to Sam's troubles was the attitte of Olivia, his Earth wife, who was no longer in love with him, but chose to live with the resurrected Frenchman, Cyrano de Bergerac. One downRiver state. Soul City, was headed by a late #th-century American black militant, Elwood Hacking. He had controt of certain materials Sam needed and was demanding high prices. He was also, Sam was sure, plotting to get hold of the boat after it was finished, if not before. Neighboring states were hoping to do the same. King John also was making life jumpy for Sam, He was bound to be plotting to get the boat for himself Meanwhile, John's arrogance and lechery had to be repressed by Sam. Moreover, the missionaries of the Church of the Second Chance were plaguing him. This religious body had formed a few years after Resurrection Day. It claimed to know what the whole business of the River and the Resurrection was about. Its members preached total pacifism, love for all and a striving towards ethical perfection. They were also responsible for introducing Esperanto as a universal language. They welcomed martyrdom as the quickest way for them to travel up and down The River and spread their religion. They were a threat to Clemens because they were opposed to the building of the boat. Their main speaker in this area was Hermann Goering, the ex-Nazi, the exReichsmarschal. Goering had suffered a psychic conversion as sudden and as strange and apparently as sincere as that of Paul of Tarsus. A large group of fellow missionaries, kicked out of a neighboring state, landed in Parolando despite orders to stay out. King John, eager to try out a new pistol using plastic bullets, massacred all but a few women. These he took into his log palace. Sam could not allow John to get away with this, even if it meant civil war. So he set out to demand the women back, unharmed, and to arrest John: Odysseus was upRiver on a mission. Sam had with him Lotthar von Richthofen, de Bergerac, Joe Miller and a few others. If John resisted he could cause Sam to lose -- forever -- all hopes of sailing on his fabulous Riverboat. S AM saw thirty or so women walking out through the open gates and knew that John had decided to rectify his mistake. Even so, he could be accused of kidnaping, a graver crime than murder in this topsyturvy world. But if the women were unharmed it would be too much trouble to push the charge. He stopped -- and this time he thought his heart would also stop. Gwenafra was with the women! Lothar, crying her name, ran to her. She ran to him with her arms out and they embraced. After a minute of hugging, kissing and sobbing, she pulled herself away and went to. Sam. He could not help reproaching hiniself. If he had shown that he wanted her, when she had made it plain that he could have her, she might not have turned to von Richthofen. Why hadn't he taken her? Why had he clung to the idea that Livy would eventually come back and that, if he took another woman now, Livy would resent it so much she would never have anything to do with him? She was living with Cyrano. So he could do what he pleased. His thinking wasn't logical. He sighed. Logic was what one used to justify one's emotions. Gwenafra kissed him while her tears ran down his bare chest. Again she left his arms and went back to Lothar, and Sam Clemens was left with the problem of what ido withor to -- John Lackland. He strode through the gates, Joe Miller lumbering behind him. A moment later von Richthofen had caught up with him. He was swearing and muttering in German, "I'll kill him!" Sam stopped. "You get out of here," he said. "I'm mad enough, but I can control myself. You're in the lion's den now -- and if you try anything he can have you killed and claim self-defense. He'd love that. In fact, he may have done all this just to set up our murder." Lothar said, "But you're here with only Joe." "I wouldn't ever call Joe an only,"' Sam replied. "Anyway, if you hadn't been so busy mugging with Gwen you would have heard me order the troops to storm the IF palace and kill everybody in it if I'm not out in fifteen minutes." Lothar stared at Sam. "You've certainly gotten much more agressive than you used to be." "The more trouble I have and the longer the building of the Riverboat takes, the meaner I get," Sam said. There was no point in mentioning that his anger at Lothar and Gwenafra was turned onto John, who already had so much directed at him that he should have curled up and crisped away, And would have if there were any justice in the world. He entered the largest building inside the stockade of tall lodgepole-pine logs and brushed past Sharkey. The slope-shouldered thug started to block his way, but Sam did not break his stride. Sharkey snarled soundlessly and made the mistake of not moving far enough to one side. A huge reddish-haired hip sent the two-hundred-and-thirty-pound man staggering back as if he were a hollow dummy. "I'll kill you one of these days," Sharkey said in English. Joe turned his head slowly as if it were a turret on a battleship and the tremendous proboscis were a cannon. "Yeth? You and vhat army?" "You're getting pretty snappy with the comeback, Joe," Sam muttered. "My influence, no doubt." "I'm not ath dumb ath motht people think," Joe said. "That wouldn't be possible." S AM'S rage had become a dull red now. Even with Joe as his bodyguard, he was far from being safe. But he was banking on the fact that John would go only so far with him -- John wanted the Riverboat, too. John was sitting at the big round oaken table with a dozen of his thugs. The giant Zaksksromb was standing behind him. All held clay steins. The room reeked of tobacco and liquor. John's eyes were red -- but then they usually were. Light came in through the windows but the direct sunlight was blocked off by the kockade poles. Some pine torches burned smokily. Sam stopped, took a cigar out of the little box in the bag hanging from his belt and lit it. It angered him that his hand shook so much. He said, "All right. Your Majesty. It was bad enough that you took those women for your own vile purposes. But to take Gwenafra? She's a citizen of this state! You really put your neck in the noose, John, and I'm not just using figurative language." John downed the whiskey in the stein and gently put it down on the table. He said softly, "I had those women removed for their own safety. The crowd was ugly; they wanted to kill all the missionaries. And Gwenafra was taken along through a mistake. I will ascertain who is responsible for that and punish him." "John," Sam said, "I ought to arrest your assertions for vagrancy. They certainly are without any visible support. But I got to hand it to you. You just dispossessed the devil. You are now the father of lies and grand master, past, present and future, of deceit. If being barefaced is the criterion of the greatest liar, all other liars are whiskered like Santa Claus." John's face turned red. Zaksksromb sneered and lifted his club chest high. Joe growled. John blew out a deep breath and said, smiling, "You are upset over a little blood. You will get over it. You cannot disprove anything I have said -- isn't that right? By the way, have you called a meeting of the Council yet? The law of the land requires you to do so, you know." The horrible thing was that John would get away with his claims. Everybody, including his supporters would know he was lying. But there was nothing Sam coujd do unless he wanted to start a civil war. And civil war would mean that the wolves -- lyeyasu. Hacking, maybe the supposed neutrals, Publius Crassus, Chernsky, Tai Fung and the savages across the River -- would invade. S AM snorted and walked out. Two hours later his expectations became realities. The Councilmen voted an official reprimand against John for his mishandling of the situation and his hastiness. He was directed to confer with his co-Consul in any such future situations. No doubt John would laugh uproariously when he was told of the decision and he would call for more liquor, tobacco, marihuana and women to celebrate. However, he did not have a complete victory. Every Parolando knew how Sam Clemens had stood up to John, stormed his palace with only one supporter, released the women and insulted John to his face. John knew that his triumph was standing on shaky legs. Sam asked the Council to exile every Second Chancer in Parolando for hisher own protection. But several Councilors pointed out that this would be illegal. The Carta would have to be changed. Besides, it was unlikely that John would take any more action against the sect after the warning he had received. They knew as well as Sam why he was taking advantage of the emotional climate to oust the Second Chancers. But there were some stubborn men on the Council. Perhaps they felt angry because they had not been able to do anything about John and wanted to make a stand for principle. Sam would have bet that the survivors of the massacre would want to leave immediately. But they insisted on staying. The slaughter had convinced them that Parolando needed them. Goering was building several large huts for them. Sam sent word down that this should stop. Parolando was already short of wood. Goering sent word back that he and his male comrades would move out and sleep under the grailstones. Sam swore and blew smoke in the face of the Chancer messenger and said that it was too bad pneumonia did not exist. Afterward he felt ashamed, but he did not relent. He wasn't going to scant his furnaces so that people he did not even want could sleep under a roof. He felt upset enough, but that evening he got two messages which opened the earth under him. One IF was that Odysseus had disappeared at night from his boat while on his way back to Parolando. Nobody knew what had happened to him. He was just gone. The second mesGrevel, the man who had been spying on John, had been found under a ledge at the base of the mountain, his skull smashed in. Somehow, John had found him out and executed him. And John would be laughing because Sam could not prove a thing or, for that matter, even admit that Grevel had been working for him. S AM called in von Richthofen, de Bergerac and others whom he considered to be his people. It was true that de Bergerac and he were hostile becluse of Livy, but de Bergerac preferred Clemens to John, with whom he had had some hot words. "Maybe Odysseus' disappearance from the boat is only a coincidence," Sam said. "But that, plus Grevel's death, makes we wonder if John isn't striking at me through my friends. He may be planning on cutting you down, one by one, under circumstances where he can't be accused. He's crafty. He probably won't do anything now for some time. But Odysseus was gotten rid of in a place where an investigation will probably reveal nothing. And I can't accuse John about Grevel without exposing what I've been doing. So, watch out for situations where accidents can happen. And be careful when you are alone." De Bergerac swore. "If it weren't for this ridiculous law against dueling, I could challenge John and run him through. You, Sinjoro Clemens, were responsible for that law!" "I was raised in a country where duels were common," Sam said. "The whole idea sickens me. ' If you'd seen the tragedies -- well, never mind. I guess you did see and it doesn't seem to have affected you. Anyway, do you think for one moment that John would ever let you live long enough to meet him for a duel? No, you'd disappear or have an accident, you can bet on that." "Vhy can't Chohn have an acthident?" Joe Miller asked. "How would you get past the living wall of his bodyguards?" Sam said. "No, if John has an accident, it must be a genuine one." He dismissed them with the exception of de Bergerac and Joe, who never left him unless he was sick or Sam wanted privacy. These were the only ones who knew about The Mysterious Stranger. "The Stranger said that he'd picked out twelve humans for the final onslaught against the Misty Tower," Sam told Cyrano. "Joe, you, Richard Francis Burton, Odysseus, and me. That's five. But none of, us knows who the other seven are; Now Odysseus is gone and God knows if we'll ever see him again. The Stranger implied that all of the twelve would join the others on the Riverboat somewhere along the line. But if Odysseus has been resurrected somewhere to the south, downRiver, so far away he can't get back up here before the Riverboat is built, then he is out of luck." Cyrano shrugged and rubbed his long nose. "Why worry? Or is that your nature? For all we know, Odysseus is not dead. He may have been contacted by this Mysterious Stranger -- who, Odysseus claims, is a woman, so his Stranger is not the one that you and I met -- but I digress. As I said, Odysseus may have been called away suddenly by this so mysterious person and we will Find out in time what did happen. Let that shadowy angel -- or fiend -- take care of the matter. We must concentrate on getting this fabulous boat constructed and skewering anybody who gets in our way." "That maketh thenthe," Joe said. "If Tham had a hair for every time he vorried, he'd look like a porcupine. Vhich, now that I come to think of it -- " "Out of the mouths of babes -- and tailless monkeys," Sam said. "Or is it the other end? Anyway, if everything goes well -- and so far it hasn't -- we'll start bonding the magnalium plates for the hull in thirty days. That'll be my happiest day until we actually launch the boat. I'll be happier even than when Livy said yes -- " H e could have cut himself off sooner, but he wanted to antagonize Cyrano. The Frenchman, however, did not react. Why should he? He had Livy -- she was saying yes to him all the time. "Me, I do not like the idea, since I am a peaceful man. I would like to have the leisure to indulge myself with the good things of life. I would like to have an end to wars -- and if there is to be any bloodshed, let it be between gentlemen who know how to wield their swords. But we cannot build the boat without interference, because those who do not have iron desire it and will not stop until they get it. So, me, I think that John Lackland may be right in one particular. Perhaps we should wage an all-out war as soon as we have enough weapons, and clear The River on both sides of all opposition for thirty miles both ways. We can then have unlimited access to the wood and the bauxite and platinum -- " "But if you did that, if you killed all the inhabitants, the countries would be filled up within a day," Sam said. "You know how resurrection works. Look at how swiftly this area was reinhabited after the meteorite had killed everybody in it." Cyrano held up a long -- and dirty -- finger. Sam wondered if Livy was losing her battle to keep him clean. "Ah!" Cyrano said. "But these people will remain unorganized and we, being on the spot, will organize them, take theni in as citizens of the expanded Parolando. We will include them in the lottery for the crew of the boat. In the long run, it would be faster to stop the boat building now and do as I suggest." And I will send'you forth in the lead, Sam thought. And it will be David and Bathseba and Uriah all over again. Except that David probably didnt have a conscience, never lost a wink of sleep over what he did... "I don't think so," Sam said. IF 'Mn the first place, our citizens will fight like hell to defend themselves, because they're involved in the boat. But they're not going to engage in a war of conquest, especially after they figure out that bringing new citizens into the lottery is going to reduce their chances enormously. Besides, it just isn't right." De Bergerac stood up, his hand on the hilt of his rapier. "Perhaps you are right. But the day you made an agreement with John Lackland and then murdered Erik Bloodaxe, that was the day you launched your boat on blood and treachery and cruelty. I do not reproach you, niy friend. What you did was unavoidable if you wanted the boat. But yoju cannot start thus and then shy away from similar or even worse acts. Not if you want your boat. Good night, my friend." He bowed and left. Sam puffed on his cigar, then said, "I hate that man. He tells the truth." Joe stood up, and the floor creaked under his eight hundred pounds. "I'm goingi to bed. My head hurtth. Thith whole thing ith giving me a pain in my athth. Either you do or you don't. It'th that thimple." "If I had my brainth in my athth I'd thay the thame thing," Sam snarled. "Joe, I love you. You're beautiful. Your world is so uncomplex. Problems make you sleepy -- so you sleep. But I -- " "Good night, Tham!" Joe said, and walked into the texas. Sam made sure that the door was barred and that the guards he'd posted around the building were alert. Then he, too, went to bed. H e dreamed about Erik Bloodaxe, who chased him through the decks and into the hold of the Riverboat. He awoke yelling. Joe loomed over him, shaking him. Rain pounded the roof and thunder boomed somewhere up along the face of the mountain. Joe stayed a while after making some coffee. He put a spoonful of dried crystals into cold water and the coffee crystals heated the mixture in three seconds. They sipped their coffee and Sam smoked while they talked about the days when they had voyaged down The River with Bloodaxe and his Vikings in search of iron. And then Joe talked of how he had awakened along The River the first time and found himself in the Arctic regions among his own kind, the titanthropi. Then Egyptians had come in their oared vessels and he had been induced to go with them up The River. They called him Tehuti (that is, Thoth) because of his long nose, which reminded them of the ibisheaded god. And then they had come to the headwaters of The River and climbed mountains which seemed unclimbable. They had found their way prepared, some steps cut out of the cliff, a tunnel bored, a ledge widened, ropes left hanging down. The person who had done this, Joe now knew, must have been Sam's Mysterious Stranger. And then high up on a ledge, with the cold gray mists of the north polar sea below him and the sun creeping along forever just below the top of the mountain range that ringed the sea, the mists had parted for a moment. The top of a tower, a vast gray cylinder shaped like a grail, had been visible for a few seconds as the sun passed a notch in the mountains. A big egg-shaped machine had flown dpwn toward the top of the tower. Joe had steped back, forgetting that there was a grail just behind him. He had fallen backward off the mountain and down into the mists and then into the sea, many thousands of feet below. He had awakened in a region of The River where only humans lived and there had met Sam Clemens. "At leatht, ve uthed to have fun now and then," Joe said. "But not any more. There 'th too much vork to do and too many people out to thkin our hideth. And your voman vould thyow up vith that bignothed Thyrano." Sam chuckled and said "Thanks for the flrst laugh Tve had in days, Joe. Big-nosed! Ye Gods!" "Thometimeth I'm too thubtle even for you, Tham," Joe said. He rose from the table and walked back to his room. Sam had little time for sleep that night and on subsequent nights. He had always liked to stay in bed in the mornings -- now he managed less than five hours out of twentyfour, with an occasional siesta. Someone always seemed to need a question answered or an issue thrashed out. His chief engineers were far from agreeing on everything. Sam had thought engineering a cut-and-dried profession. You had a problem and you solved it the best way. Usually there was only one way. But Van Boom, Velitsky, and O'Brien seemed to be living in worlds that did not quite dovetail. Finally, to spare himself the aggravating and often wasted hours of wrangling, Sam delegated the final word to Van Boom. They were not to worry him about anything unless they needed his authorization. An amazing number of things instantly required his authorization. IX the Bushman-Hottentot area across The River from him but nine miles of the Ulmak territory. Then he sent a fleet down to the three-mile stretch below the Ulmaks, where seventeenth-century A.D. Sac and Fox Indians lived. This country was conquered with resultant slaughter of half the inhabitants. lyeyasu then began dickering with Parolando for a higher price for his wood. Also, he wanted an amphibian exactly like the Firedragon . By then the second Firedragon was almost finished. And by this time over five hundred blacks from Parolando had been exchanged for an equal number of Dravidians. Sam had steadfastly refused to accept the Wahhabi Arabs, or at least had insisted that the Asiatic Indians come first. Hacking apparently did not like this, but nothing had been said in the agreement about which group had)riority. Hacking, having heard from his spies about lyeyasu's demands, sent a message. He wanted a Fireexchange a great quantity of minerals for it. IF Publius Crassus and Tai Fung him I hadn't sworn any oath of allied to invade the area across The loyalty to you, but I had accepted River from them. This was ocyour offer and that was as good I cupied by stone-age peoples from said. I wasn't going to betray you everywhere and everytime and and that if Soul City invaded Parostretched for fourteen miles along lando I'd defend it to the death." the left bank. With their superior "That's fine, superb." Sam said, steel weapons and numbers, the "Here, have a snort of bourbon -- invaders killed half the population and a cigar! I'm proud of you and and enslaved the rest. And they upproud to command such loyalty, ped their price for the wood but But I wish -- I wish -- " kept it below Iseyasu's. Van Boom looked over the cup. Spies reported that Chernsky, "Yes?" who ruled the fourteen-mile-long "I wish you'd strung him along, nation just north of Parolando, had We could have found out a lot with made a visit to Soul City. What you feeding us information." happened there was anybody's Van Boom put the cup down and guess, since Hacking had set up a stood up. His handsome brown security system that seemed to be features were ugly. "I am not a one hundred percent effective. Sam dirty spy!" had gotten in eight blacks to spy "Come back," Sam said, but for him and he knew that John had Van Boom ignored him. Sam sent in at least a dozen. The sevburied his head in his arms for a ered heads of all soon were tossed minute and then picked up Van from boats in the mists late t Boom's cup. Never let it be said night onto the top of the wall along that Samuel Langhorne Clemens the bank of Parolando. wasted good whiskey. Or even bad. Van Boom came to Sam late one for that matter. Although the grail night and said that Firebrass had never yielded any but the best, cautiously approached him. Van Boom's lack of realism ir"He offered me the position of ritated him. At the same time he chief engineer on the boat," Van knew a counter feeling of warm Boom said. pleasure. It was good to know that "e offered it to you?" Sam incorruptible men still existed, said, his cigar almost dropping. He regretted that he had not had "Yes. He didn't say so in so a chance to pry out of Van Boom many words, but I got the idea. The his basic attitude toward whites. Riverboat will be taken over by the Sam knew that his chief engineer Soul Citizens and I will be chief had been delivered by a Zulu mothengineer." er in a ditch during a bombardment "And what did you say about his in the course of a revolution in fine offer? After all, you can't South Africa. Van Booip's father lose, either way." had been an Afrikaans who had "I told him not to etch a pseudojoined the black underground. Van circuit. Come out and say it. He Boom had been raised in a society wouldn't, though he grinned. I told in which whites and blacks were theoretically equal, though there were not many whites around. Most of them had been slaughtered or fled the country. He had grown up with the history of the long exploitation and suppression of the blacks by the whites drilled into him. But he himself had seemed to be unaffected by his background and he had not come into contact with whites who looked down on him. He had never left his country. Sam decided he did not have to worry about Van Boom. awoke wondering if he did have to worry after all. What if Van Boom were not as upright as he pretended to be? What if the clever Firebrass had told Van Boom to go to Clemens with hisstory? What better way to put a man off his guard? But then it would have been better if Van Boom had pretended to Sam that he was playing along with Firebrass. "I'm beginning to think like King John," Sam said aloud. He finally decided that he had to trust Van Boom. The work on the great Riverboat went on day and night. The plates of the hull were bonded and the beams were welded on. The batacitor and the giant electric motors were built and cranes began the slow and cautious work of lowering them into the hull. The cranes themselves were enormous structures on huge rails, powered by electricity from the prototype batacitor. People came from thousands of miles up and down The River, in galleys, dugouts, canoes, to see the fabulous works. Sam and King John agreed that so many people wandering about would get in the way of the work and would enable spies to function more efficiently. "Also, it'll put the temptation to steal before them, and we don't want to be responsible for tempting people. They have enough trouble as it is," Sam said. John did not smile. He signed the order that expelled all noncitizens, except for ambassadors and messengers, fr#m the work area. This still did not prevent many boats from sailing by while the occupants gawked. The dirt and stone walls along the bank were about finished -- there were, however, many breaks through which the curious could stare. These openings were left to provide ingress to freight boats bringing wood, ore and flints. Moreover, since the plain sloped up toward the hills, the tourists could see the factories and cranes -- and the great structure of the boatyard itself was visible for miles around. After a while the tourist trade began to peter out. Too many of the curious were being picked up along the way by grail slavers. Word got around that it was becoming dangerous to travel The River in that section. Six months passed. The wood, supply in the area was cut off. Bamboo grew to full length in three to six weeks; the trees took six months to reach complete maturity. Every state for fifty miles both ways from Parolando had enough wood for their own uses only. Parolando's representatives made treaties with more distant IF states, trading iron ore and weapons for wood. A large supply of siderite masses was still available; Sam was not worried about running out of it. But the mining of it took many men and materials and caused the central part of Parolando to look like a heavily shelled landscape. And the more wood was brought in, the more men, materials and machines had to be diverted from the boatbuilding to make weapons for trade. Moreover, the increase in shipping resulted in more demand for lumber to build freighters. And more men had to be trained and shipped out as sailors and guards for the wood-carrying and ore-carrying fleets. Finally boats had to be rented from neighboring states and the rent, as always, was iron-nickel ore and finished weapons. S AM wanted to be with the boat from dawn to dusk and even later -- he loved every minute of progress there. But he was caught in so many administrative details that he could indulge himself for only two to three hours -- on a good day. He tried to get John to take over more of the administration, but John would accept only duties which gave him more power over the military forces or allowed him to exert pressure on those who opposed him. The anticipated attempts at assassination of those close to Sam did not occur. The bodyguards and the close watch at nights were continued, but Sam decided that John was going to lay low for a while. He had probably seen that it would be best for his purposes to wait until the boat was nearly finished. Once Joe Miller said, "Tham, don't you think maybe you're wrong about Chohn? Maybe he'th going to be content vith being thecond in command of the boat?" "Joe, would a sabertooth part with his canines?" "Vhat?" "John is rotten to the core. The old kings of England were never any great shakes, morally speaking. The only difference between them and Jack the Ripper was that they operated openly and with the sanction of Church and State. But John was such a wicked monarch that it became traditional never to name another English king John. Even the Church, which had a high tolerance for evil in high places, could not stomach John. The Pope slapped the Interdict on the entire nation and brought John crawling and begging to the feet of the Pope, like a whipped puppy. But I suppose that even when he was kissing the Pope's foot, John managed to suck a little blood. And the Pope must have felt his pockets to make sure his money was still there after he embraced John. "What I'm trying to put across is that John couldn't reform even if he wanted to. He'll always be a human weasel, a hyena, a skunk." J OE puffed on a'cigar even longer than his nose and said, "Veil, I don't know. Look at vhat the Church of the Thecond Chanthe hath done to Goering. Look at you. You told me that in your time vomen vore clotheth that covered them from the neck to the ankleth and you got ekthited if you thaw a good-looking ankle -- and a thigh, oh my! Now you aren't too dithturbed if you thee -- " "I know -- I know," Sam said. "#d attitudes and what the psychologists call conditioned reflexes can be changed. That's why I say that anybody who still carries in him the racial and sexual prejudices he had on Earth is not taking advantage of what The River offers. A man can change, but -- " "He can?" Joe said. "But you alvayth told me that everything in life, even the vay a man actth and thinkth, ith determined by vhat vent on long before he vath even born. Vhat ith it? Yeth, it'th a determinithtic philothophy, that'th vhat. Now, if you believe that everything ith fikthed in itth courthe, that humanth mathyineth, tho to thpeak, then how can you believe that men can chanche themthelveth?" "Well," Sam drawled, looking fierce, his blue-green eyes bright above the falcon nose, "even my theories are determined in advance and if they conflict, that can't be helped." "Then, for heaven'th thaketh," Joe said, throwing up his footballsized hands, "vhat'th the uthe of talking about it? Or even doing anything? Voy don't you chutht give up?" "Because I can't help myself," Sam said. "Because, when the first atom in this universe bumped against the second atom my fate was decreed, my every thought and action was fixed." "Then you can't be, uh, rethponthible for vhat you do, right?" "That's right," Sam said. He began to feel uncomfortable. "Then Chohn can't help it that he'th a murdering treacherouth thoroughly dethpicable thvine?" "No -- and I can't help despising him for what he is." "And I thuppothe that if thomebody thmarter than I am came along and thyowed you, by thtrict undeniable lochic, that you wer wrong in your philothophy, that you vould thay that he can't help thinking you're wrong? But he'th wrong, it'th chutht that he'th predetermined, mechanically, to think the vay he doeth." "I'm right and I know it," Sam said, puffing harder. "This hyppothetical man couldn't convince me because his own reasoning does not spring from a free will, which is like a vegetarian tiger -- that is, it doesn't exist." "But your own reathoning doethn't thpring from a free vill." "True. We're all screwed. We believe what we have to." "You iaugh at thothe people who have vhat you call invinthible ignoranthe, Tham. Yet you're full of it, yourthelf." "Lord deliver us from apes who think they're philosophers!" "Thee! You fall back on inthultth vhen you can't think of anything elthe to thay! Admit it, Tham! You haven't got a lochical leg to thtand on!" "You Just aren't capable of seeing what I mean, because of the way you are," Sam said. "You thyould talk to Thyrano de Bercherac more, Tham. He'th ath big a thynic ath you, although he doethn't go ath far ath you do vith determinithm." IF "I'd think you two incapable of talking to each other. Don't you two resent each other, you look so much alike? How can you stand nose to nose, as it were, and not break up with laughter? It's like two anteaters -- " "Inthultth! Inthultth! Oh, vhat'th the uthe?" "Exactly," Sam said. Joe did not say good night and Sam did not call after him. He was nettled. Joe looked so dumb with his low forehead, bone-ringed eyes, dill-pickle nose, gorilla build and hairiness. But behind those little blue eyes and the lisping was an undeniable intelligence. What disturbed him most was Joe's comment that his deterministic belief was only a rationalization. To excuse his guilt? Guilt for what? Guilt for just about everything bad that had happened to those whom he loved. But it was a philosophic labyrinth which ended in a quagmire. Did he believe in determinism because he wanted not to feel guilty? Or did he feel guilty, even though he should not, because the universe was so constructed that he had to feel guilty? H e sat up later than usual that night, but not working. He drank at least a fifth of ethyl alcohol mixed with fruit juice. Firebrass had said two months earlier he could not understand the failure of Parolando to make ethyl alcohol. Sam had been upset. He had not known that grain alcohol could be made here, had thought that the only supply of liquor was the limited amount that the grails yielded. No, Firebrass had said. Hadn't any of his engineers told him? If the proper materials, such as acid, coal gas, or acetaldehyde and a proper catalyst were available wood cellulose could be converted into ethyl alcohol. Sam had called in Van Boom, who had stated that he had enough to worry about without providing booze for people who already drank too much. Sam had ordered materials and men diverted and, for the first time in the history of The River, as far as anyone knew, potable alcohol began to be made on a large scale. This resulted not only in happier citizens, except for the Second Chancers, hut in a new industry for Parolando. Sam exported alcohol in exchange for wood and bauxite. The trade, Sam thought, could afford his indulgence this night. He finished the bottle, fell into bed and, the next morning refused to get up before noon. But the day after he was back at his toils. He and John sent a message to lyeyasu that they would regard it as a hostile act if he invaded the rest of the Ulmak territory or Chernsky's Land. lyeyasu replied that he had no intention of waging war on these lands and proved it by invading the state just north of his, Sheshshub's Land. Sheshshub was an Assyrian, born in the seventh century B.C. He had been a general of Sargon II, and so, like most powerful people on Earth, had become a leader #n the Riverworld. He gave lyeyasu a good fight, but the invaders were more numerous. lyeyasu was only one worry. Sam had others. Hacking sent a message through Firebrass. He wanted Parolando to quit stalling and send the amphibian promised to him. Sam had kept pleading technical difficulties, but Firebrass told him that excuses of any kind were no longer acceptable. shipped off. S AM made a visit to Chernsky, just north of Parolando, to reassure him that Parolando would defend Cernskujo. Coming back, a half-mile upwind of the factories, Sam almost gagged. He had been living so long in the acidbath-cum-smoke atmosphere that he had gotten used to it and the vacation from it had cleansed his lungs. The stench set him coughing. Though the wind was at fifteen mph, it did not carry the smoke away swiftly enough. The air definitely was hazy. No wonder, he thought, that Publiujo, to the south, complained. But the boat continued to grow. Standing before the front port of his pilothouse, Sam could look out every morning and be consoled for his troubles and for the hideousness and stench of the land. The three decks would be completed in another six months and the great paddlewheels would be installed. A plastic coating would seal the part of the hull in contact with water. This plastic would not only prevent electrolysis of the magnalium, it would reduce the effect of water turbulence. Van Boom said the reduction would add ten mph to the boat's speed. The upper decks would be white with red, black and gold trimmings. During this time Sam received some good news. Tungsten and iridium had been found in Selinujo, the country immediately south of Soul City. The report was brought by a prospector, who trusted no one but Sam. He also brought some bad news. Selina Hastings refused to let Parolando mine there. In fact, if she had known that a Parolandano had been digging along the mountain she would have thrown him out. She did not want to be unfriendly -- indeed, she loved Sam Clemens, since he was a human being. But she did not approve of the Riverboat and she would not permit anything to go out of her land that would help build the vessel. Sam erupted and, as Joe said, "Thyot blue thyit for mileth around." The tungsten was very much needed for hardening machine tools but even more for radios and, eventually, the closedcircuit TV sets. The iridium could be used to harden platinum for various uses -- scientific instruments and surgical tools. The Mysterious Stranger had told Sam that he had set up the deposit of minerals in Sam's territory, but that his fellow Ethicals did not know that he had done so. Along with the bauxite, cryolite, and platinum he had IF promised tungsten and iridium. But an error had evidently been made and the latter two metals had been deposited several miles south of the first three. Sam did not tell John at once -- he needed time to think about the situation. John, of course, would want to demand that the metals be traded to Parolando or that war be declared. While he was pacing back and forth in the pilothouse, clouding the room with green smoke, he heard drums. The drummers were using a code he did not know but recognized, after a moment, as belonging to Soul City. A few minutes later Firebrass was at the foot of the ladder and coming up. Sinjoro Hacking knows all about the discovery of tungsten and iridium in Selinujo," he said. "He says that if you can come to an agreement with Selina, fine. But don't invade her land. He'd regard that as a declaration of war on Soul City." , Sam looked out the starboard port. "Here comes John, hot-footing it," he said. "He's heard the news, too. His spy system is almost as good as yours, slower by a few minutes. I'd say. I don't know where the leaks in my system are, but they're so wide that I'd be sunk if I were a boat -- and I may be anyway." face red, entered. Since the introduction of grain alcohol he had put on even more fat and seemed half-drunk all the time and all drunk half the time. Sam was angered but also amused. He knew John would have liked to have sent a messenger with a summons, in keeping with the dignity of an ex-king. But John, in turn, knew that Sam would not have answered for a long time -- if at all -- and meanwhile there was no telling how much hankypanky Firebrass and Sam would manufacture. "What's going on?" John asked, glaring. "You tell me," Sam said. "Something must be on your mind." "None of your wisecracks," John said. Without being asked he poured out a quart of purple passion into a stein. "I know what that drumming was about -- even if I don't know the code." "I thought as much," Sam said. "For your information, in case you missed anything -- " and he told him what Firebrass had said. John glared at the offender. "The arrogance of you blacks is unendurable," John said. "You are telling Parolando, a sovereign state, how it must conduct itself in vital business. Well, I say you can't. We'll get those metals one way or the other. Selinujo doesn't need them; we do. It can't hurt Selinujo to give them up in fair trade." "In what?" Firebrass said. "Selinujo doesn't want weapons or alcohol. What can you trade?" "Peace, freedom from war." Firebrass shrugged and grinned, incensing John. "Sure," Firebrass said, "you can make your offer. But what Hacking says still goes." "Hacking has no love for Selinujo," Sam said. "He kicked out all the Second Chancers, black or white." "That's because they were preaching immediate pacifism. They also preach and apparently practice love for all, regardless of color. But Hacking says they're a danger to the state. The blacks have to protect themselves, otherwise they would be enslaved all over again." "TAe blacks?" Sam asked. "## blacks," Firebrass replied, grinning. This was not the first time Firebrass had given the impression that he was not too deeply concerned with skin color. His identification with blacks, as such, was weak. His life had noFbeen untouched by radal prejudice, but it had not been much affected. And he had said things now and then that indicated that he would like a berth on Sam's boat. All this, of course, could be a put-on. "We'll negotiate with Sinjorino Halstings," Sam said. "It would be nice to have radios and TV for the boat and the machine shops could use the tungsten. But we can get along without them." He winked at John to indicate that he should take this line. But John was as stone-headed as usual. "What we do with Selinujo is our problem, nobody else's." "I'll tell Hacking," Firebrass said. "But Hacking is a strong person. He won't take any crap from anybody, least of all from white capitalist imperialists." Sam choked and John stared. "That's how he regards both of you," Firebrasssaid. "And the way he defines those terms, you are what he says you are." "Because I want this boat so badly?" Sam shouted. "Do you know what this boat is for, what its ultimate goal is?" X H e fought back his anger, sobbing with the effort. He felt dizzy. For a moment he had almost told Firebrass about the Stranger. "What is it?" Firebrass said. "Nothing," Sam replied. "Nothing. I just want to get to the headwaters of The River. Maybe the secret of this whole shebang is there? Who knows? But I certainly don't like criticism from someone who just wants to sit around and collect soul brothers. If he wants to do that, more power to him, but the point is, if I don't use the siderite metal to build a boat, which is designed for travel only, not for fighting any battles, someone else will. And that someone else may use it to conquer and to hold, instead of for tourist purposes. "Now, we've gone along with Hacking's demands, paid his jacked-up prices for the ores when we could have gone down there and taken them from him. John's apologized for what he called you and Hacking and if you think it's easy for a Plantagenet to do that, you don't know your history. It's too bad about the way Hacking feels. I don't know that I blame IF him. Of course, he hates whites, would come after Parolando and But this is not Earth. Conditions Selinujo had agreed on the disare radically different here." position of the metals. "But people bring their attiSam felt like a rusty old boiler in tudes along with them," Firebrass a Mississippi steamboat. A few said. "Their hates and loves, dismore pounds of pressure and he likes and likes, prejudices, reacwould blow skyhigh. tions, everything." "Sometimes I think you're "But they can change." right!" he shouted at John. "MayFirebrass grinned. "Not accordbe we should just take over our ing to your philosophy. Hacking neighbors and get it done with." hasn't seen anything here to make "Of course," John said him change his attitude. So why smoothly. "It's obvious that that should he? He's experienced the ex-Countess Huntingdon -- she same exploitation and contempt must be descended from my old here as he did on Earth." enemy, the Earl of Hunting"I don't want to argue about don -- is not going to give in. She is that," Sam said. "I'll tell you -- " a religious fanatic, a nut, as you He stopped and stared out the say. And Soul City will fight us if port. The whitish-gray hull and we invade Selinujo. Hacking upper works gleamed in the sun. can't go back on his word. And he's Beautiful. And, in a sense, all his. stronger now that we've given him being put through. about that; I do not reproach you. "I'll tell you what," he repeated I have been thinking." more slowly. "Why doesn't HackSam stopped pacing and looked ing come up here? Pay a little at John. John had been thinking, visit? He can look around, see for Shadows would be moving inside himSbIf what we're doing. See our shadows; daggers would be unproblems. Maybe he'll apprecisheathed; the air would grow gray ate them, see we're not blue-eyed and chill with stealth and intrigue; devils who want to enslave him. In blood would spurt. And the sleepfact, the more he helps us the ing would do well to stir. ' sooner he'll be rid of us." "I won't say that I have been in "I'll give him your message," contact with lyeyasu, our powerFirebrass said. "Maybe he'll ful neighbor to the north," John want to do that." said. He was slumped down in the "We'll greet him in style," Sam tall-backed, red leather covered said. "A twenty-one gun salute, chair and staring into the purple big reception, food, liquor, gifts, passion in the tilted stein. "But I He'll see we aren't such bad felhave information -- or means of lows after all." getting it. I am certain thatJohn spat, but said no more. lyeyasu, who feels very strong indeed, would like to acquire even F irebrass brought a mesmore territory. And he would like sage three days later. Hacking to do us a favor. In return for certain payments, of course. Say, an amphibian and a flying machine? He's wild to fly one of those himself. If he attacked Selinujo Hacking couldn't blame us. And if Soul City and lyeyasujo fought and Soul City were destroyed and lyeyasujo weakened -- how could we fail to benefit? Moreover, I happen to know that Chernsky has made a secret compact with Soul City and Tifonujo to fight if any of them are invaded by lyeyasu. The resultant carnage would certainly find all of them weakened and us strengthened. Then we could take them over -- or at least do what we wanted without interference. In any case, we would have uncontrolled access to the bauxite and the tungsten." The skull under thatmass of tawny hair must hold a thundermugful of worms, Sam thought. Worms that fed on corruption and intrigue and deviousness. John was so crooked, he was admirable. "Did you ever meet yourself coming around a corner?" Sam asked "What?" John looked up. "Is this another of your unintelligible insults?" "Believe me, it's as close to a compliment as you'll ever get from me. What you're suggesting is all hypothetical. But if lyeyasu did attack Selinujo, what excuse would he have? They've never offended him and they're sixty miles away from him on our side of The River." "When did any nation ever need a reasonable excuse for invading another?" John asked. "But the fact is that Selinujo keeps sending missionaries into lyeyasujo, though he has kicked out all Chancers. Since Selinujo won't stop doing this -- " "Well," Sam said, "I couldn't let Parolando get involved in a deal like this. But if lyeyasu decides on his own to fight, there's nothing we can do about it." "And you call me dishonest?" "There's nothing I could do about it," Sam said, clamping down on his cigar. "Nothing. And if something develops that's good for the boat -- we'll take advantage of it." "The shipments from Soul City would be held up while the fighting was going on," John said. "We've got enough stock to keep going for a week. The big worry would be wood. Maybe lyeyasu would be able to keep that coming even with a war going on, since the fighting will be south of us. We could handle the chopping and transportation ourselves. If he didn't plan to invade for a cdUple of weeks we could lay in extra stocks of ore from Soul City by offering Hacking increased payments. Maybe promise him an airtoy -- now that we've almost got our first amphibian airplane finished. All this is hypothetical -- " "I understand," John said. He was not trying to mask his contempt. Sam felt like shouting at him that he had no right to be contemptuous. Whose idea had this whole bloodbath been, anyway? It was the next day that the three chief engineers were killed. IF S AM was there when it happened. He was standing on the scaffolding by the starboard side of the boat, looking down into the open hull. The colossal steam crane was lifting the immense electric motor which would be driving the port paddlewheel. The motor had been moved during the night from the building where it had been built. The moving had taken over eight hours and had been effected by the crane, which also had a gigantic winch. The winch, plus hundreds of men pulling on cables, had pulled the motor on its big car, which moved on steel rails. Sam rose at dawn to watch the final work, the lifting and then the lowering of the motor into the hull and its attachment to the paddlewheel axle. The three engineers were standing in the bottom of the hull. Sam called down to them to get away, that they were too vulnerable if the motor should drop. But the engineers were stationed in three different places so that they could transmit signals to the men on the port scaffolding, who, in turn, were signaling the crane operator. Van Boom turned to look up at Sam and his teeth flashed whitely in his dark face. His skin looked purplish in the light of the big electric lamps. And then it happened. A cable snapped, then another. The motor swung out to one side. The engineers froze for an instant. Then they ran, but they were too late. The motor fell and crushed all three of them. The impact shook the great hull and the vibrations made the scaffolding on which Sam stood quiver as if a quake were passing through the land. Blood ran out from under the motor. It took five hours to put new cables on the crane and lift the motor. The bodies were removed; the hull was washed out and the motor was lowered agaiiv. A close inspection had determined that the damage to the motor would not affect its operation. Sam was so depressed that he would have liked to have gone to bed jmd remained there for a week. But he could not leave the boat. The work had to go on and while there were good men who would see to it that it did, Sam did not want them to know how shaken, he was. Van Boom and Velitsky were Sam's only engineers from the twentieth century. T hree days after the accident he asked Firebrass into his pilothouse for a private conference. After giving him a cigar and scotch Sam asked Firebrass to take over as chief engineer. Firebrass almost dropped his cigar. "Steer me, stymate! Do I read you unfrosted? You want me as "Maybe we should talk in Esperanto," Sam said. "Okay," Firebrass said. "I'll bring it down to dirt. Just what do you want?" "I'd like you to get permission to work for me on a temporary basis, supposedly." "Supposedly?" "The job is yours permanently if you want it. On the day the boat sets out on the long journey you can be its chief engineer." Fiberbrass sat silent for a long time. Sam rose to pace back and forth. Occasionally he looked through the ports. The crane had put in the starboard motor and was now lowering parts of the batacitor into the hull. The huge installation would be thirty-six feet high when fully assembled. A trial run would check its operation and that of the motors. A double cable, six inches thick, would be run out for two hundred feet and its free end, attached to a large shallow hemisphere, would be slipped onto the nearest grailstone. When the stone delivered its tremendous electrical energy, the energy would be transmitted by the cables into the batacitor, which would store it. The power would be drawn out at a controlled rate to run the electrical motors. Sam turned away from the port. "It's not as if I were asking you to betray your country," he said. "In the first place, all you have to do now is to request permission from Hacking to work for me on the building of the boat. You can make up your mind later about going with us. Which would you rather do? Stay in Soul City where there is actually little to do except indulge yourself? Or go with us on the greatest adventure of all?" Firebrass said slowly, "If I accepted your offer -- , I say -- I would not want to go as chief engineer. I would prefer to be the chief of your air force." "That's not as important a position as the chief engineer's." "It's a lot more work and responsibility. And I like the idea of flying again -- " "You can fly! You can fly! But you'd have to serve under von Richthofen. You see, I promised him that he would be the chief of our air force -- which, after all, will only consist of two planes. What do you care whether or not you're the chief as long as you get to fly?" "It's a matter of pride. I have thousands of hours more flying time than Richthofen -- in planes far more complex and bigger and speedier. And I was an astronaut. I've been to the Moon and Mars and orbited Jupiter." "That doesn't mean anything," Sam said. The planes you'll be flying are very primitive. More like the World War I machines that Lothar flew," "Why does a black always have to take second place?" "That's unfair," Sam said. "You could be the chief engineer. You'd have thirty-five people under your command. Listen, if I hadn't made Lothar that promise, you'd get the captaincy, believe me." Firebrass stood up. "I'll tell you what. I'll help you build the boat and set up the training of your engineers. But I get to fly during that time, too -- and when the time comes we'll talk about who's going to be head of the air force." "I won't break my promise to Lothar," Sam said. "Yes, but many things may happen between now and then." S AM was relieved in one way but disturbed in another. IF Hacking gave his permission, via drum, for Parolando to use Firebrass. This suggested to Sam that Hacking wanted Firebrass to know the boat's operation because he might be serving Hacking as chief engineer some day. As for Firebrass -- he might be planning to remove von Richthofen before the boatwas ready for launching. Firebrass did not seem like a cold-blooded murderer but looks meant nothing where humans were concerned. Hacking sent word a few days later that he would agree to a large shipment of minerals in return for the AM P-#. Firebrass flew it the thirty-one miles to the northern limit of Soul City, where another flier, a black who had been a general in the U.S. Air Force, took it over. Firebrass returned by sailboat a few days later. The batacitor and the electric motors worked perfectly. The paddlewheels turned over slowly in the air, then were speeded up until the vanes whistled. When the time came a canal would be dug from the water's edge to the great boat and it would wheel out into The River under its own power. Lothar von Richtofen and Gwenafra were not getting along at all. Lothar had always been a lady killer and he could not seem to help flirting. More often than not he followed up the flirtation. Gwenafra had some definite ideas about fidelity with which Lothar agreed only in principle. The practice tripped him up. Hacking finally agreed to visit Parolando. He wanted to hold a series of conferences on trade, to check on the well-being of Parolando's black citizens and to see the great Riverboat. Sam announced that he would be happy to receive Hacking. He wasn't, but the essence of diplomacy was dissimulation even in this new life. The preparations for housing Hacking and his large entourage and setting up the conferences occupied Sam. He did not get much chance to supervise the work on the boat. Special preparations also had to be made for docking the large number of ore boats from Soul City. Hacking was sending three times as much as the normal shipment to show his sincerity and desire for peace and understanding. Sam would have preferred that the shipments be spaced out, but he also wanted to get as much ore as possible in as short a time as possible. The spies said that lyeyasu was collecting several large fleets and a great number of fighting men on both sides of The River. And he had sent more messages to Selinujo to stop trying to land their missionaries on his territory. XI about an hour before noon. It was a large, two-masted, foreand-aft rigged ship. Hacking's bodyguard, tall well-muscled blacks holding steel battle axes (but with Mark I pistols in big holsters) marched down the gangplank. Their kilts were pure black and their leather helmets and cuirasses and boots were of black fish skin. They formed in ranks of six on each side of the gangplank. Finally Hacking himself disembarked. He was a tall well-built man with a dark brown skin, somewhat slanting eyes, a broad pug nose, thick lips and a prominent chin. He wore a black towel as a cloak, a black kilt and leather sandals. His only weapon was a rapier in a sheath at his broad leather belt. Sam gave the signal and a cannon loomed twenty-one times. The salute was intended not only to honor Hacking but to impress him. Only Parolando had artillery, even if it consisted of only one .# mm. cannon. The introductions took place." Hacking did not offer to shake hands, nor did Sam and John. Both had been warned by Fifrass that Hacking did not care to shake hands with a man unless he regarded him as a proven friend. Some small talk followed while the grails of Hacking's people were set on the nearest grailstone. After the discharge of energy at high noon the grails were removed and the chiefs of state, accompanied by their bodyguards and guards of honor, walked to John's palace. John had insisted that the first meeting be held in his place, doubtless to impress Hacking with John's primacy. Sam had not argued. Hacking probably knew from Firebrass how things stood between Clemens and Lackland. Later Sam found some grim amusement in John's discomfiture at being bearded in his own house. Hacking seized the floor during lunch and held it with a long and vitriolic speech about the evils the white man had inflicted on the black. The trouble was. Hacking's indictments were valid. Everything he said was true, Sam had to admit. Hell, he had seen slavery and what it meant and had seen the aftermath of the Civil War. He had been born and raised in it. And he had written Huckleberry Finn and Puddnhead Wilson and A Connecticut Yankee, T he high-pitched voice went on and on, mixing obscenities with facts, lurid tales of miseries, beatings, murders, starvation, humiliations. Sam felt guilty and ashamed and, at the same time, angry. 'You are all guilty!" Hacking shouted. "Every white man is guilty!" "I never saw more than a dozen blacks before I died," John said. "What can I have to do with your tale of unjustices?" "If you had been born five hundred years later you would have been the biggest honky of them all," Hacking said. "I know all about you -- " Sam suddenly stood up and shouted, "Did you come here to tell us about what happened on Earth? We know what happened. But that's the past. Earth is dead. What's taking place now counts." "Yeah," Hacking said. "And what's taking place now is what took place on good old Earth. Things haven't changed one little bit. I look around here and who heads up this country? Two honkies! Where are the black men? Your black population is about one-tenth of your total. You ought IF to have at least one black on a tenman Council! Do I see one? Just one?" 'There's Cawber," Sam said. "Yeah. A temporary member and he's that only because I demanded you send me a black ambassador." "The Arabs make up about a sixth of your state," Sam said, "and there isn't one Arab on your council." "They're white, that's why. And I'm getting rid of them. Don't get me wrong -- many Arabs are good men, unprejudiced men. I met them when I was a fugitive in North Africa. But these Arabs are religious fanatics and they won't stop making trouble -- so out they go! What we blacks want is a solid black country, where we're all soul brothers. Where we can live in peace and understanding. We'll have our own kind of life and you honkies can have yours. Segregation with a capital S, Charlie! Here, a big S segregation can work, cause we don't have to depend on the white man for our jobs or food or clothing or protection or justice. We've got it made, whitey. All we have to do is tell you to go to hell, keep away from us and we got it made!" his dark-red kinky head bent, looking down, his bronzed hands over his face. Sam had the feeling that he was trying to keep from laughing. But whether he was laughing at Hacking or his hosts, Sam could not guess. Perhaps he was laughing at both. John kept drinking but the redness of his face came from more than the liquor. He looked ready to explode at any moment. It was difficult to swallow insults about your injustice to blacks when you were innocent -- but then John was guilty of so many hideous crimes that he should suffer for some, even if they were committed by others. And, as Hacking said, John would have been guilty of racial bias if he had been given the chance. Hacking finally quit talking. Sam Clemens said, "Well, we didn't plan on any after-dinner speeches, but I thank you for your volunteering -- we all thank you as long as you don't charge us for it. Our exchequer is rather low at the moment." Hacking said, "You have to make a joke out of it, don't you? Well, how about a tour? I'd love to see that big boat of yours." The rest of the day passed rather pleasantly. Sam forgot his anger and his resentments while conducting Hacking through the factories, the shops and, finally, through the boat. Even half-finished, it was magnificent. The most beautiful sight he had ever seen; Even, he thought, even -- yes, even more beautiful than Livy's face when she had first said she loved him. Hacking did not become ecstatic, but he was deeply impressed. He could not, however, refrain from commenting on the stench and the desolation. Sam was called away shortly before supper. A man who had landed from a small boat had demanded to see the ruler of the land. A Clemens man had taken him in and sent for Sam. He went off at once in one of the two alcohol-burning "jeeps" that had been finished only a week before. A slender blond youth at the guardhouse introduced himself, in Esperanto, as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Sam questioned him in German, noting that, whatever the youth's identity, he did speak the soft Austrian version of High German. He said that he had lived about twenty thousand miles up The River. He heard about the boat -- and that it would carry an orchestra for the amusement of passengers. The instruments would be those that Earth had known. Mozart had suffered for twenty-three years in this world of limited materials, where the only musical instruments were drums, whistles, wooden flutes, pan pipes and a crude sort of harp made of bone and the guts of a Riverfish. The great Riverboat's orchestra, he had heard, would feature piano, violin, flute, horns and all the other beautiful instruments he had known on Earth, plus others that had been invented since his death in #. And here he was. Was there a place for him in the musicmaking ranks of the boat? Sam was an appreciator, though not a passionate lover, of some classical music. But he was thrilled at meeting the great Mozart face to face. That is, if this man truly were Mozart. Phonies on The River were claiming to be everybody from the original one-andonly Jesus Christ down to P. T. Barnum, and Sam took no man's word for his identity. He had even met three men who claimed to be Mark Twain. "It just so happens that the former archbishop of Salzburg is a citizen of Parolando," Sam said. "Even though you and he parted on bad terms, if I remember correctly, he'll be glad to see you." Mozart turned neither pale nor red. He said, "At last, somebody I knew during my lifetime! Would you believe -- " Sam would believe that Mozart had not met anybody he had known on Earth. So far he himself had met only three people he'd known and his acquaintanceship had been extensive during his long life and worldwide travels. That his ife Livy was one of the three was a coincidence exceeding the bounds of probability. He suspected that the Mysterious Stranger had arranged that. But even Mozart's eagerness at seeing the archbishop again did not confirm that he was indeed Mozart. In the first place, the imposters that Sam had met had frequently insisted that those who were supposed to be their old friends were either mistaken or else imposters themselves. They had more gall than France. In the second place, the archbishop of Salzburg did not live in Parolando. Sam had no idea where he was. He had sprung him just to test Mozart's reaction. Sam agreed that Mozart could appjy for citizenship. First, he straightened him out about the musical instruments. These had not been made yet. Nor would they IF be wood or brass. They would be electronic devices which could reproduce exactly the sounds of various instruments. But if Mozart were indeed the man he claimed jto be he had a good chance of being the conductor of the orchestra. And he could have all the time he wanted to compose new works. Sam did not bind himself to anything, He. had 'learned his lesson about making promises. palace in honor of Hacking, who seemed to have discharged his venom for the day at the first meeting. Sam talked with him for an hour and found that Hacking was an intelligent and literate man with a flair for the imaginative and the poetic. Near midnight Sam accompanied Hacking and party to the big thirty-room, second-story, stone-and-bamboo building set aside for state guests. Then he dr(e his jeep to his home, three hundred yards away. Joe sulked a little because he had wanted to drive, even though his legs were far too long. They staggered up the ladder and barred the door. Joe went into the rear and flopped on his bed with a crash that shook the house' on its stilts. Sam looked out through the ports just in time to see Cyrano and Livy, their arms around each other, lurch into the door of their hut. To their left, set above them, was von Richthofen's hut, where he and Gwenafra had already gone to bed. He muttered, "Good night -- " not knowing exactly whom he was addressing, and fell inta his own bed. It had been a long, hard and trying day. He awoke dreaming that he was caught in a California earthquake on the Fourth of July. H e leaped out of bed and ran on the trembling floor to the Pilothouse. Even before he reached the ports he knew that the explosions and the earth-shaking were caused by invaders. He never reached the ports, because a rocket, its tail flaming red, struck one of the stilts. The roar deafened him, smoke whirled in through the broken ports, and he pitched forward. The house collapsed and its front part fell down. He banged into the wood and broken glass and earth and lay stunned. A big hand picked him up. By the light of an explosion he saw Joe's great-nosed face. Joe had climbed down from the open end of his room and thrown aside the lumber until he had found Sam. He held his grail and Sam's in his left hand. "I don't know how -- it's a miracle -- but I'm not hurt bad," Sam said. "Just bruised and cut by glass." "I didn't have time to put on my armor," Joe said. "But I got my akthe. Here'th a thword for you and a pithtol and thome bulletth and powder charcheth." "Who the hell can they be, Joe?" Sam said. "I don't know. Thee -- they're coming in through the holeth in the vallth vhere the dockth are." The starlight was bright. The clouds that sent the rains down every night at three o'clock had not yet come but the mists over The River were heavy. Out of them men were still pouring to add to the masses spreading over the plains. Beyond the walls, in the mists, must be a fleet. The only fleet that could get close without causing an alarm would be the Soul City fleet. Anybody else arriving at this hour would have had to have been within view of the spies Sam and John Lackland had set up along The River, even in hostile territory, lyeyasu's fleet was still sitting in its docks, according to a report Sam had received just before midnight. Joe ered over a pile of wood and said, "There'th a hell of a battle around Chohn'th palathe. And the guetht houthe -- vhere Hacking and hith boyth vath -- ith on fire." The flames lit a number of bodies on the ground and showed tiny figures struggling around the log stockade of John's palace. Then the cannon was pushed before the stockade. "That's John's jeep," Sam said, pointing at the vehicle which had just driven up behind the cannon. "Yeah -- and it'th our cannon," Joe said. "But it'th Hacking'th men that're going to blatht Chohn out of hith little love netht." "Let's get to hell out of here," Sam said and scrambled over the lumber and in the opposite direction. He could not understand why the invaders had hot yet sent men to his house. The rocket that had hit the Pilothouse had come from the plains. And if Hacking and his men had sneaked out of the guesthouse to launch a surprise attack in conjunction with an attack from the supposed ore boats, then Sam should have been a primary target along with John Lackland. He'd find out later what it was all about -- if there was a later. T hat Hacking's men had gotten hold of the cannon was bad news for Parolando. Sam heard the big gun boom. He whirled in his flight and saw pieces of wood flying out of the smoke. John's walls were wide open and the next few shells should reduce his log palace to rubble. There was only one good thing about the invaders having their hands on the cannon. The supply of shells was limited to fifty. Even with the many tons of nickel-iron still in the ground, metal was not so common that it could be wasted to any extent on explosive shells. Ahead was Livy's hut. The door was open and the place was empty. Sam looked up the hill. Lothar von Richthofen, clad only in a kilt, carrying a rapier in one hand and a pistol in the other, was running toward him. A few paces behind him came Gwenafra with a pistol and a bag of bullets and gunpowder packages. Other men and women were coming toward Sam. Among them were a few crossbowmen. He shouted at Lothar to organize them and turned to look down toward The River. The docks were still black with men. If only the cannon could have been turned IF to catch them packed together and unable to retreat. But the cannon had been wheeled around from John's flaming palace and was being trained on Parolandanoj hurrying up the hill. Then a big dark machine came through a wide breach in the wall. Sam cried out with dismay. It was the three amphibians of Parolando? Presently he saw two coming toward the hills. The steam machine guns in the turrets began to stutter and his men -- his men -- were falling. The Soul Citizens had captured the amphibians. Everywhere he looked he saw a battle raging. Men were fighting around the Riverboat. He cried out again, because he could not endure the thought of its being damaged. But no cannon shells were delivered near it. Apparently the enemy was as concerned about it as he was. Rockets from the hills soared overhead and blew up among the invaders below. Enemy rockets rose in reply; scores of red flames streaked above; some came so close Sam could see the blur of the cylindrical body, the long bamboo stick protruding from the rear. The next half-hour -- or was it two hours? -- was a shrieking, yelling, shouting, gunpowder-stinking, blood-stinking, sweating, bowel-churning chaos. Time after time the Soul Citizens charged up the hill and time after time they were repelled by rockets, by .# caliber plastic bullets, by crossbow bolts and longbow arrows. Then a charge carried the enemy through to the defenders and it was rapier, broadsword, axe, club, spear, and dagger that drove them back. eight hundred pounds, his hairy hide drenched with blood -- his own and that of others -- swung his axe with its eighty-pound nickel-steel head at the end of an oak shaft three inches thick and six feet long. It crashed through oak shield ai leather armor, brushed aside rapiers and spears and axes, split breastbones, took off arms and necks, halved skulls. When his enemies refused to come near him, he charged them. Time and again, he broke up assaults that might otherwise have succeeded. Mark I pistols were fired at him, but the shooters were so unnerved by him that they fired from too far away and missed. Then an arrow went through Joe's left arm and a man braver -- or more foolhardy -- than the rest stepped under his axe and thrust a rapier into his thigh. The butt end of the shaft came back and broke the attacker's jaw and then the reversed axe severed his head. Joe could still walk, but he was losing blood fast. Sam ordered him to retreat to the other side of the hill, where the badly wounded were being treated. Joe said, "No -- I ain't going -- " and fell to his knees with a groan. "Get back there -- that's an order!" Sam screamed and ducked, though it was too late. A bullet whistled past his ear and shattered against the side of an irontree. Some of the plastic must have ric ocheted; he felt a stinging in his arm and calf. Joe managed to heave himself up and shamble off. Cyrano de Bergerac appeared from the darkness; he was covered with dirt and soot, streaked with blood. He gripped the basket hilt of a long bloody rapier in one hand and a pistol in the other. Behind him, equally disheveled, her long dark hair loose and flying, was Livy. She carried a pistol and a bag of ammunition, and her function seemed to be to reload the pistols. Seeing Sam, she smiled, her teeth white in the powder-blackened face. "My God, Sam -- I thought you were dead. That rocH.et ,against your house -- " "I wish you were behind me in this," he said. It was all he had time to say, though he would not have said more whatever the case. The enemy mounted another charge, men slipping and sliding over the piles of the fallen or leaping over them. The bowmen by now seemed out of ammunition and the pistoleers were using theirs sparingly. But the enemy had about expended its powder, too, though it had more arrows. Joe Miller was gone, but Cyrano de Bergerac tried to make up for the loss and came close to doing so. The man was a demon, as deadly and elusive as the rapier he wielded. From time to time he fired the pistol in his left hand pointblank into an opponent's face while lunging with the rapier to skewer another. He would toss the empty gun behind him; Livy would catch and reload it. Sam thought briefly of the change that had come about in Livy. He had never suspected her potential for action under conditions like these. The frail, often sickly, violence-loathing woman was coolly performing duties that many men would have run from. Among them me -- if fd had any time to think about it , shield that an amok Wahhabi Arab lifted too high in his frenzy and Livy, seeing that she had to do it, that Cyrano could not, held the pistol in both hands and fired. The hammer made the barrel swerve. She brought it back into line -- smoke and flame spurted out, and an Arab fell back with his shoulder torn off. A massively built attacker leaped over the body, axe raised in both hands and Cyrano ran him through the adam's apple. The enemy retreated down the hill again. An amphibian -- a Merrimac on wheels, Sam thought -- huffed into the action. Lothar von Richthofen pushed against Sam, who stepped aside when he saw the aluminum-alloy tube Lothar and a helper were setting up. The helper kneeled while Lothar loaded a rocket with a ten-pound warhead into the bazooka and aimed it. Lothar was good. The rocket sailed down, its fiery arc ending against the front of the amphibian. Lothar scored a bull's-eye. Smoke covered the monster, lifted. The amphibian had stopped -- but it came on IF presently, its turrets turning, steam guns lifting. "Well, that was the last one," Lothar said. "We might as well get the hell out of here. We can't fight that. Who should know better than we, heh?" The enemy was reforming behind the armored vehicle. Many were uttering the ululating cries which the Ulmaks, the pre-Amerinds across The River, made during charges...Apparently Hacking had enlisted those not yet conquered by lyeyasu. Suddenly Sam could not see as well as before. Only the fires from the burning houses limned the scene. The rain clouds had come swiftly, as they always did -- like wolves chasing the stars. Within a few minutes it would rain savagelyHe looked and listened. The defenders had been thinned out. Fighting was still going on to north and south, on the plains and the hills along the plains. But the shooting and the cries had lessened. The night seemed to him filled with the enemy. He wondered if Publiujo and Tifonujo had joined the invasion. He took a last look at the giant hull of the Riverboat with its two paddlewheels, half-hidden beneath the scaffolding and behind the colossal cranes. Then he turned. He felt like weeping, but he was too numbed. It would be some time before the tears would come. It was more likely that his blood would run out before then, after which there would be no tears. Not in this body, anyway. G uided by the fires of a dozen scattered huts, Sam and a handful of his men stumbled down the other side of the hill. The rains smashed down. A tentacle of the enemy force ran toward them from the left. Sam turned and pulled the trigger of his flintlock; the rain, of course, drowned out the spark. But the enemy's pistols were also rendered useless. Hacking's men came at the Parolandanoj with their swords and spears and axes. Joe Miller lunged forward, growling with a voice as deep as a cave bear's. Though wounded, he was still a formidable and terrifying fighter. By the flashes of lightning and the rumbling of thunder, his axe cut down attackers. Others jumped in to help him and in a few seconds the Soul Citizens decided they had had enough. They backed away to wait for reinforcements. Why get killed now when victory was theirs?  Sam and his people crossed two more hills. The enemy attacked sporadically. Joe Miller and Cyrano continued formidable, but when Sam finally counted his group of survivors he was shaken. Fifteen. Where had they all gone? He would have sworn that at least a hundred had been with him when he had set out from the main field of battle. Livy was still close behind Cyrano. Guns were useless now, but she kept at Cyrano's back and helped him with a spear thrust when she could. Sam was cold and wet. And he was as miserable as Napoleon must have been on the retreat from Russia. All, all gone! His proud little nation and its nickel-iron mines, its factories and its in vulnerable amphibians with their steam guns, its two airplanes and the fabulous Riverboat -- all gone! The technological triumphs and marvels, the Magna Carta with the most democratic constitution any country had ever knowngone. And the greatest journey ever to be made would never be made. How had it all been lost? Through treachery, base treachery. At least King John had not been part of the betrayal. His palace had been demolished -- and he along with it, in all probability. The Great Betrayer had been betrayed. Sam quit grieving then. He was still too frozen with the terror of battle to think for long about anything except survival.  At the base of the mountain, he led his group north along it until they were opposite the dam. A lake about a quarter of a mile long and a half a mile wide was before them. They followed the shoreline to a thick, concrete dam and walked across it. Sam paced until he found a sunken symbol, a diagonal cross, in the concrete. He called, "Here it is. Now, if nobody squeals on us -- " H e let himself down into cold water while the lightning streaked and the thunder bellowed far away. He shivered but kept going down. When the water was up to his armpits his foot struck the first rung. He took a deep breath, closed his eyes and sank, running his hands along the concrete until they encountered the first rung. After that he pulled himself down by the other rungs and, at the sixth, knew that the entrance was a few inches below it. He went under it and rose. His head popped up into air and light. A platform a few inches higher than the water was in front of him. Overhead was a dome, the highest point of which was ten feet. Beyond the platform was an exit. Six big electric light bulbs lit the chamber harshly. Shivering and gasping, he climbed onto the platform and strode to the exit. Joe followed him a moment later. He called weakly and Sam had to turn back and help him crawl onto the platform. He was bleeding from a dozen places. The others came after him, one by one. They helped Sam get the titanthrop through the exit and down an incline into a large chamber containing beds, towels, food, liquor, weapons and medicine. Sam had prepared this place for just such an emergency, but he had thought he was being foolishly cau tious. Only his most trusted lieutenants and the workers who had built this place knew about it. Joe and Cyrano had briefed the rest of the group. Another entrance, at the bottom of the dam, was hidden beneath the flow that powered the wheels connected to the generators. This one led to a shaft up which a man could climb, only to come to a seemingly blank wall. But the man who knew how could open that wall. The whole project was, he knew, a product of the romantic foolishness he had not entirely shed in this new life. The idea of secret doors under a waterfall and under the IF lake and of hidden apartments where he could rest and plan his revenge while his enemies hunted in vain for him continued irresistible. He had laughed at himself at times for having built the refuge. Now he was glad. Romanticism did have its uses. Also hidden was a detonator. All he had to do to set off the tons of dynamite inside the base of the dam was to connect two wires. The dam would go up and the water of the lake would roar out and carry the central part of Parolando out into The River. Sam Clemens and his Riverboat would also be destroyed -- but that was the price. Sam did not like to think about it. T he wounded were treated and put under the sedation of dreamgum or liquor. Sometimes chewing the gum deadened pain; other times it seemed to increase it. The only way to neutralize its painexpanding effects was to pour liquor into the patient. They ate and slept while the guards watched at both entrances. Joe Miller was semiconscious most of the time. Sam sat beside him and nursed him as best he could. Cyrano came back from his vigil at the door under the waterfall to report that it was night again outside. That was all he knew -- he had seen or heard no one through the waterfall. Lothar and Sam were the least wounded. Sam . decided that they should sneak out past the waterfall exit and spy. Cyrano protested that he should go, too, but Sam refused. Livy did not say anything, but she looked gratefully at Sam. He turned away; he did not want any thanks for sparing her mate. He wondered if Gwenafra were dead or captured. Lothar said that she had disappeared during the last attack. He had tried to get to her but had been driven back. He now felt ashamed of himself for not having done more. Sam and Lothar applied a dark stain all over their bodies and then went down the steel rungs of the shaft. The walls were damp and the rungs were slippery with moisture. Electric lights illuminated the shaft. They exited behind the waterfall, which roared and splashed at them. The ledge curved, following the lower half of the dam, until it ran out about twenty yards from the end. Here they climbed down steel rungs to the junction of the dam wall and the ground. From there they walked cautiously along a channel which had been cut put of the earth. Grass roots still stuck out of the dirt walls; the roots went deeper than any cuts made so far -- it seemed impossible to kill the grass. The sky was bright with the jampack of huge stars and glowing gas clouds. Sam and Lothar were able to proceed swiftly in the silvered darkness. After a half a mile they moved at right angles to the canal, heading toward John's ruined palace. Crouching in the shadows beneath the outflung branches of an irontree, they looked down on the plains below. Men and women moved among the huts. The men were the victors, the women victims. Sam quivered when he heard screams and beggings, but he tried to push them out of his mind. To act rashly now would be to throw away his chances of doing any good for Parolando. Yet, if he heard Gwenafra's voice, he knew that he would go to her rescue. The Tires in the open hearths and the smelters were again blazing and men and women were working in them. Evidently Hacking had already put his slaves to work. Guards stood around the buildings. The plains Were well lit for as far as he could see with huge bonfires. The people around them seemed to be drinking and laughing. Occasionally a struggling and screaming woman was carried off into the shadows. ' S AM and Lothar walked down the hill as if they owned it, but they did not go near to the buildings or the fires. Nobody challenged them, though they came within twenty yards of a number of patrols. Most of the enemy seemed to be celebrating the victory with purple passion or any other liquor they had been able to get from the supplies of their prisoners. The exceptions were the Wahhabi Arabs, whose religion forbade drinking alcohol. And some others apparently were abstemious. These probably were disciples of Hacking, who did not drink. Whatever the laxity now, discipline had been maintained during the day. The corpses had been taken away and a big stockade of poles removed from other buildings had been set up at the foot of the hills. Sam surmised it held prisoners. He and Lothar strolled along, staggering now and thn, as if drunk. They walked boldly between a nitric acid factory and a waste-treatment building and out onto the plain. And stopped. Sam saw Firebrass -- some twenty yards ahead -- in a bamboo cage so narrow that he could not sit down in it. His hands were tied tightly behind him. On a big X-frame of wood, upside down, his legs tied to the upper part of the X and his arms to the lower members, hung Goering. Sam looked around. A number of men, talking and drinking, stood in the big doorway of the wasterecycling plant. They did not say anything to Sam and Lothar, but they were looking at them. Sam detided not to go any closer or to try to talk to Firebrass. He longed to know why Hacking's emissary was in the cage, but he did not dare to ask him. What he had to do was find out all he could and then get back to the hideout inside the dam. So far, he thought, the situation looked hopeless. He could take his faithful and sneak out of the country during the rains. He could blow up the dam and wash out everything, including the forces of Soul City -- but he still did not want to lose the boat. He would let the dam alone for as long as he had a chance to get it back. His and Lothar's slow and seemingly drunken wanderings took them near a big building that had been occupied by Fred Rolfe, King John's supporter on the Council. The number of armed men on IF guard around it suggested to Sam that Hacking was inside. It was a one-story house of pine logs and bamboo. The windows were without shades and the lights showed people inside. Suddenly Lothar gripped Sam's arm and said, "There she is. Gwenafra." The light shone on her long honey-color hair and pale skin. She stood near a window, talking to someone. After a moment she moved away and the bushy hair and black face of Elwood Hacking nioved across the bright square. Sam felt sick. Hacking seemed to have taken her for his woman for the night. Gwenafra had not looked frightened. She had seemed relaxed. Sam pulled Lothar away. ""There's nothing we can do now and we could be throwing away any chance she might have at all if we started anything." They drifted around for a while, observing the other factories and noting that the bonfires stretched both ways along the walls as far as their eye could detect. In addition to the Soul Citizens, there were the Ulmaks and a number of Orientals. Sam wondered if these could be the Burmese, Thai, and Ceylonese New Stone Age peoples living across The River from Selinujo. He and Lothar had just passed into the shade of a gigantic ironwood tree when Sam felt something tighten around his neck from behind. He tried to yell, to turn around, to struggle, but the big hand squeezed and he lost consciousness. H e awoke gasping and coughing. He was still under the tree. He started to get up, but a deep voice growled, '"None o' that. Sit still, or I'll split yer skull." Sam looked around. Lothar, his hands tied behind him and a gag in his mouth, was sitting propped up under a half-grown fir sixty feet away. The man who had spoken was big, with excessively broad shoulders, a deep chest and brawny arms. He wore a black kilt and black cape and gripped mediumsized axe. His belt held a steel tomahawk, a steel knife and a Mark I pistol. He asked, "You be Sam Clemens?" '"That's right," Sam said. ""What does this mean? Who are you?" The big man jerked a head full of thick hair at Lothar. "I moved him away so he couldn't hear what we have to say. A man we both know sent me." Sam was silent for a moment, then asked, "The Mysterious Stranger?" The big man grunted. "Yes. That's what he said you called him. Stranger's good enough. I guess you know what it's all about, so there's not much use us jawing too long about it. You satisfied that I've talked with him?" "I have to be," Sam said. "It's obvious that you've met him. You're one of the Twelve he's picked. It was a he, wasn't it?" "I didn't jump him to find out," the man said. "I tell you, this child ain't ever run up against a human, red, black, or white, that ever threw a scare-fit into him. But that Stranger, he'd make a grizzly scoot just by looking at him. Not that Vm afraid of him, you understand; it's just that he makes me feel -- strange. Like I was a plucked bluejay. But enough of that. My handle's Johnston. Might as well give you my history and save jawing later. John Johnston. I was born in New Jersey about eighteen-twenty-seven, I reckon, and died in Los Angeles in the veterans' hospital in #. Between times, I was a trapper in the Rocky Mountains. Up to when I came to this River, I killed me hundreds of Injuns -- but I ain't never had to kill a white man, not even a Frenchman. Not till I got here. Since then -- well. I've collected quite a few white scalps." The man stood up and moved out into the starlight. His hair was dark but looked as if it would be a bright red in the noonday sun. "I talk a hell of a lot more'n I used to," he said. "You can't get away from people in this valley." They walked over to Lothar. On the way Sam asked, "How'd you happen to get here? And at this time?" "The Stranger told me where to find you, told me about you, your boat, the Misty Tower and all that. Why hash it all over? You know. I promised to find you and go with you on your boat. Why not? I don't like being set down here. There ain't no elbow room; you can't turn around without knocking noses. I was about thirty thousand miles upRiver when I woke up one night and there was that man sitting in the shadows. We had a long talk, him doing most of it. Then I got up and set out. I heard about some of what was goingon here way up The River. I snuck in here while the fighting was still going on and I been looking for you ever since. I listened to them blacks talking; they said they couldn't find your body. So I been skulking around, seeing what I could see. Once I had to kill me one a those Ayrabs cause he stumbled across me. I was hungry, anyway." They had reached Lothar, but Sam straightened up at the last words. "Hungry? You mean -- " The man did not reply. Sam said, "Say, uh, you -- you wouldn't be a man called 'Liver Eating' Johnston, would you? The Crow Killer?" The voice rumbled: "I made me peace with the Crows and became their brother. And I quit eating human liver some time after. But a man has to eat." S AM shivered. He stooped to untie Lothar's bonds and removed the gag. Lothar was furious, but he was also curious. And, like Sam, he seemed to find Johnston a little awing. The man exuded savage force. Without even halftrying, Sam thought. They walked back to the dam. Johnston did not say anything for a long time. Once he disappeared, leaving Sam feeling strange and cold. Johnston was about six and a half feet tall and looked as if he weighed two hundred and eighty pounds, all bone and muscle. But he moved like a tiger. Sam jumped. Johnston was back. Sam asked, "What happened?" IF Johnston said, "Never mind. You say you didn't get around much. I been all over this place; I know the sitchyation passing well. Lots a your people to the north and the south got away over the walls. If they'd a stood up, they might've licked the blacks. But the blacks ain't won by a long shot. lyeyasu is getting ready to move against them. I wouldn't be surprised none if he invades tonight. I scouted around his place some before I came here. He ain't going to put up with the blacks owning all this iron and the boat. He will take it away from them or know why." Sam groaned. It made no difference whether Hacking or lyeyasu had the boat, if he couldn't get it. But by the time they were inside the dam, he felt better. Maybe the two forces would destroy each other and the Parolandanoj who'd fled could come back and take over. Moreover, the appearance of the Herculean mountain man. Liver Eating Johnston, heartened Sam. The Mysterious Stranger had not entirely abandoned him. The Stranger was still planning -- and he had sent a damn good man for Fighting, if the stories about Johnston could be believed. Johnston was the sixth man the Stranger had chosen. The other six would show up some time -- though one had been lost. Odysseus had disappeared. He could show up again. The River was a great place for bad pennies, if you could call the Twelve that. They were bad for somebody. For the Stranger's people, the Ethicals, Sam hoped. In the dam, Johnston had to be introduced and the situation explained. Joe Miller, wrapped in towels, sat up and shook hands with Johnston. And Johnston, awe in his voice, said, "Night and day, this, manrchild seed many queer things. But I ain't never seed one like you. You didn't have to crush my hand, friend." "I didn't try," Joe said. "You look pretty big and thtroiig to me. Bethideih, I bn thick." They moved out about half an hour before the rains. The land was relatively quiet by then. The celebrators had gone to bed and everybody had cleared away from the Fires in expectation of the rain. But the guard towers and the factories were full of enemy guards. They had stopped drinking. Apparently Hacking had called a halt to it. drifted away while they leaned against the side of the sulfuric acid factory. Ten minutes later he was suddenly beside them. "I been giving those blacks the ear," he said. "That Hacking is smart. All that drinking and whooping it up and staggering around, why, that was all a put-on for the benefit of spies from lyeyasujo. Hacking knows lyeyasujo is going to attack tonight and he's making it look like it's gonna be easy. But his men are worried. They're short of gunpowder." Sam was startled by the news. He asked Johnston if he had overheard anything else. "Yeah. I heard a couple of them Citizens talking about why Hacking decided he had to attack us; He knew lyeyasu was going to do it, so he decided he had to jump the gun. If he didn't, lyeyasu would have control of the metal and the amphibians and would conquer Soul City next. Them jackasses was laughing fit to kill, they said it was King John arranged with Hacking to take over -- And then Hacking blew up King John in his own house because he didn't trust John." Sam said, "But why in hell would John do that to us? What did he have to gain?" "Hacking and John was gonna conquer all the land for a hundred miles along The River and then split it. John was gonna rule the white half and Hacking the black half. Half and half, with the two sharing everything equahThey was gonna build two boats, two of ev erything." "What about Firebrass? Why's he in the cage?" "Dunno, but somebody did call him a traitor. And that kraut, what's his name -- Herring?" "Goering." "Yeah. Well, Hacking wasn't to blame for his being tortured. Some of them Wahhabi Ayrabs did it. They's got it in for the Second Chancers, you know, and they got him and tortured him with the help a some a them bad Dahomeyans, who used to torture a dozen people before breakfast, according to what I heard. By the time Hacking heard of it and stopped it, Goering was dying. But he talked to. Hacking, called him his soul brother and said he forgave him. Said he'd see him later along The River. Hacking was pretty shook up about it, from what his men said." Sam digested the news, which set his teeth on edge. He was so upset he couldn't even get any amusement from Hacking's doublecross of the champion doublecrosser. King John. He did have to admire Hacking's statesmanship and perception, however. Hacking had realized there was only one way to deal with John. changed everything. Apparently, lyeyasu was on the way now, which meant that Sam's plans to sneak out during the rains would not work. "What's the matter, Sam?" Livy said. She was sitting near him, looking sadly at him. "I think it's all up with us." "Oh, Sam -- where's your manhood? It isn't all up with us. You get depressed so easily if things don't go your way all the time. Why, this is the greatest opportunity you could ask for to get your boat back. Let Hacking and lyeyasu destroy each other and then take over. Just sit back up in the hills until they have clawed each other to death and jump on them while they're gasping out their last." Sam said, angrily, "What are you talking about? Jump on them with fifteen men and women?" "No. You have at least five hundred prisoners in that stockade and God knows how many more in other stockades. And you have thousands who ran away to Cernskujo and Publiujo." "How can I get hold of them now?" Sam said. "It's too late! The IF attack will be launched in a few hours Besides, the refugees were probably put in stockades, too. For all I know, Chernsky and Publius Crassus may be in cahoots with Hacking." "You're still the same paralyzed pessimist I knew on Earth," Livy said. "Oh, Sam, I still love you, in a way, that is. I still like you as a friend and -- " "Friend!" he said so loudly that the others jumped. Cyrano swore and Johnston hissed, "Shet up. You want them black Injuns to get us?" "We were lovers for years," he said. "Not always, by a long shot," she said. "But this is no place for a discussion of our failures. I don't intend to thrash those out -- it's too late. The point is do you or do you not want your boat?" "Of course, I want it," he said fiercely. "Then get off your dead ass, Sam!" she said. From anybody else, the remark would have been unremarkable. But from her, his fragile, softvoiced, clean-speeched Livy, it was unthinkable. But she had said it and now that he thought back on it there had been times on Earth, which he had suppressed in his memory, when... "The lady makes a powerful lot a sense!" Johnston rumbled. He had far more important things to think about. But the really important matters were best recognized by the unconscious -- and for the first time he understood, really understood with every cell of his body that Livy had changed. She was no longer his Livy. She had not been for a long time, perhaps had not been for some years on Earth before her death. "What do you say, Mr. Clemens?" the mountain man rumbled Sam gave a deep sigh, as if he were breathing out the last fragments of Olivia Langdon Clemens de Bergerac. He said, "Here's what we do." T he rains lashed down; thunder and lightning made the skies and the land hideous for a half hour. Johnston appeared out of the rain with two bazookas and four rockets tied together on his broad back. He disappeared again and a half hour later was back with some throwing knives and tomahawks, all of steel. The rain clouds went away and the land was brightly silver under the magnificent stars, as numerous as cherries on a tree in season, as luminous as jewels before electric lights. The air grew colder and Sam's people shivered under the irontree. A thin mist formed over The River; within fifteen minutes, it was so thick that the waters and the grailstones and the high walls along the banks could not seen. lyeyasu struck a half-hour later. The big boats and the small boats, crammed with men and weapons, came from across The River, where the Sacs and Foxes had once ruled, from the northern part of the exUlmak territory, from the land where the Hottentots and Bushmen had once lived in peace. And the main bulk came from the right bank of The River, from the three lands where lyeyasu now was lord. lyeyasu attacked at ten points along the Riverfront walls. Mines blew up the walls, and men pourtxl through the breaches. The number of rockets shot in the first ten minutes was awesome. lyeyasu must have been saving them for a long time. The three amphibians of the defenders lumbered up, their steam machine guns chuffing and expelling the .# caliber shells in garden hose fashion. The carnage they made was great, but lyeyasu launched a surprise. Rockets with wooden warheads containing jellied alcohol (made from soap plus wood alcohol) struck all around the three armored vehicles and made clirect hits at least twice each. The crude napalm spread fierily over the vehicles, and if the burning stuff did not get inside the-vehicles, it seared the lungs of the men inside. Sam was shaken by the sight, but not enough to keep him from telling Lothar to remind him of this when it was all over -- if either of them were still around. "The amphibians have to be made more airtight and we'll have to install a self-contained air system," he said. Johnston appeared, as unexpectedly as if he had stepped out of a door in the night -- and behind him was Firebrass. The man looked exhausted and as if he were in pain, but he still managed to grin at Sam. He was, however, trembling. "Hacking was told that I was betraying him," Firebrass said. "And he' believed his informant. Who was, by the way, your esteemed and always reliable King John. John told him that I was selling him down The River, that I had revealed everything to you so I could become chief of your air force. Hackii would not believe that I was dickering with you just to string you along. I can't blame him too much. I should have sent word through our spies what I wais doing. That I didn't convince him that I wasn't doublecrossing him didn't surprise me." "Were you?" Sam said. Firebrass grinned. "No, I wasn't, though I was mightily tempted. But why should I betray him when I'd been promised I could be head flier after Hacking took over the boat? The truth is. Hacking was eager to believe John. He doesn't like me because I'm not his idea of what a soul brother should be, I had too easy a life according to him. He resented the fact that I never lived in a ghetto." "The job of chief engineer can still be yours," Sam said. "I'll admit that I'm relieved about not having to promise you the captaincy of the air force. But you can still fly, if you want to." "That's the best offer I've had since I died," Firebrass said. "I'll take it." He moved closer to Sam and whispered in his ear. "You would have had to take me along in some capacity anyway. I'm one of The Twelve!" S AM felt as if a cold rod had been plunged through him from the top of his head down. "The Ethical? The Stranger?" "Yes. He said you called him The Mysterious Stranger." IF "You betraying Hacking?'" Then he led the rest back up in"That little speech I just made to the hills. They would camp by was for public consumption," Firethe dam until they saw hpw the brass said. "Yes, I did betray battle was going. Sam did not have Hacking, if you insist on using the slightest idea of what they that word. But I regard inyself as should do. He told Cyrano he an espionage agent for a higher auwould play it by ear from here on thority. I have no intention of and had to repress an impulse to worrying about all-black or allremark that he was tone deaf, white states on The River when I Afterward, Sam thanked whocan find out how and why we, the ever there was to thank that he had whole human race, were put here. I not camped on top of the dam. He want answers to my questions, as had chosen a knoll above and to the  Karamazov once said. All this left of the dam. Here he had a white-black turmoil is trivial on better view of the hills and the this planet, no matter how imporplains, where the rockets were still tant it was on Earth. Hacking must exploding but were not as nuhave sensed that I thought so, merous as in the beginning. The though I tried to conceal it." starlight glimmered on the waters Sam did not recover from the of the big lake behind the dam as if shock for some time. Meanwhile, all were peaceful in the world, the battles raged on the plain and Suddenly Johnston leaped up the Soul Citizens were getting the and said, "Looky there! Yonder -- worst of it. Though they cost the on top of the dam!" invaders three men for one, they Three dark figures had emerged were pushed back with a half-hour, from the water onto the dam. They Sam decided that it was time for ran toward the land. Sam told the him to act and led his group to the others to withdraw behind the great stockade where the Parolando pristrunk of the irontree. Joe Miller oners were kept. Lothar fired two and Johnston seized the three as rockets into the gates of the stockthey raced up to the tree. One tried ade. Cyrano and Johnston did most to stab Joe and Joe squeezed the guards. Cyrano was a demon out from broken veins and arteries, using lightning for a sword and The others were knocked out. By Johnston downed four men with the time they regained consciousthrown tomahawks and three with ness, they did not have to tell Sam thrown knives. He broke two legs what they had done: And he and a chest with a foot like iron, guessed that they had done so at The freed prisoners were directed the order of King John, to the armory, where bows and The earth shook under Sam's arrows were still in supply. feet, and the irontree leaves rattled Sam sent two men eabh to the like dishes in a pantry. The white north, and the south to go over the wall of the dam flew outward with walls and try to contact the Parola gigantic cloud of smoke and a andanoj there. roar that pushed at his eardrums. Enormous chunks of concrete flew through the smoke like white birds above a factory chimney. They tumbled over and over and struck the ground far ahead of the waters. The lake was no longer the peaceful and quiet glimmer of a wonderful world to come. It seemed to hurl itself forward. The roar as it raced down the canyon Sam's men had dug with so much sweat and time was deafening, T he water, hundreds of thousands of tons of it, funneled by the .canyon, rammed through the earthen walls, tearing out great chunks of it. The sudden drop of the water level also removed a great amount of earth around the lake's shores, so much so. that the watchers had to scramble-for even higher ground. And the thousandfoot irontree, its two-hundred-foot roots abruptly exposed, toppled over. It seemed to take a long time falling and the explosions of enormous roots breaking and the whistling of air through the huge leaves and vines terrified the humans. They had thought they were far enough away, but even though the giant tree was falling away from them, they were threatened by the eruption of roots from the earth. The tree struck with a crash on the other side of the lake, tore out overhanging dirt and continued on down into the emptying lake. It slid put entirely from its root-anchors on the bank. The waters picked up the enormous tree as if it were a toothpick and carried it down the canyon for a half-mile before it became wedged. The water roared out in a wall at least a hundred feet high. Its front carried a tangle of half-grown trees and bamboo plants, huts, people, and debris. It flashed across the mile and a half of plam, spreading out but channeled, for a few minutes, by the secondary walls Sam had built to defend the factories and the River boat. Everything was picked up and carried on out into The River. The factories crumbled as if they were made of straw. The gigantic Riverboat was lifted up like a toy boat cast into the ocean surf. It rode out into TheRiver, pitching, and vanished in darkness and turmoil. The sight made Sam throw himself on the ground and claw at the grass. His boat was lost! All he had made was lost, factories, mines, amphibians, airplanes, smithies, armories -- but worst of all, the Riverboat was lost. The dream was shattered, the great shining jewel of his dream had been smashed. The grass was cold and wet in his face. Joe's huge hand lifted him up and sat him down, as if he were a dummy. Joe's monstrous hairy body was pressed close to his, warming him. And Joe's grotesque face with the shelving brows and the absurdly long nose was before him. "They're all gone," Joe said."Chethuth! Vhat a thight -- there ain't nothing left, Tham!" The plain was buried under a whirl and toss of waters, but in fifteen minutes The River had resumed its normal appearance along the shores of Parolando, though it surely was swollen downstream. IF The great buildings and the boat in its scaffoldings were gone. The Cyclopean walls on the sides, a mile apart, were gone. Small ponds glittered here. and there where the mines and the basements of the factories had been. The vast weight of water had gouged out part of the plain. The stone and earth walls along the banks had been swept away as if they were sand. The skies paled, and the starlit darkness became gray. The great fleet of the invaders was gone far down The River, or under it, broken, smashed. The two armies on the plain and the sailors were all dead, crushed by the weight of the water, browned, rubbed into nothing or squeezed out like toothpaste. But Parolando extended for ten miles along The River, and the lake had, after all, only raged across a two-mile area. Its main damage had been in the middle of Parolando, where it had carried everything out that stood within a half a mile wide area. Dawn brought with it a thousand men in boats or over the walls of Chernsky's Land from the north. At their head was King John, S AM drew up his men in battle formation with Joe Miller in the center, but King John limped forward, his hand held out in sign of peace, Sam walked forward to talk to him, Sam expected eventually to be killed, but he realized that right now John needed him and Firebrass and others if he were going to get the boat rebuilt. Also, he banked on John's wanting the perverted pleasure of keeping Sam alive -- and wondering when the dagger in the night would Find him. As it turned out, not everything had to be started from scratch again. The boat was found relatively undamaged, beachdd on a hill across The River a mile down. It had been deposited as gently as a cat's footstep by the withdrawing waters. The work of getting the great hull back was not easy; but it took much less time than making another one. John explained more than once to Sam what he had done, but the deviousnesses and the two times two doublecrosses were so complicated that Sam could never see the picture as a whole. John had made a deal to betray Sam, knowing full well that Hacking would betray him in return. John would have been disappointed if Hacking had not tried to stab him in the back. He would have lost all his faith in human nature. John had made a deal with lyeyasu to help him invade after Hacking's invasion, lyeyasu liked the idea that Hacking would weaken his forces while taking Parolando. At the last moment, John had made a deal with Publius Crassus, Tai Fung, and Chernsky that they would help him mop up on lyeyasu's forces, which would be shattered by the waters released by the blown-up dam. John had sent the three men to set off the explosives in the dam when the greatest number of invaders and defenders would be concentrated between the funneling secondary-defense walls. "Then you weren't in yoiir palace when Hacking's cannons opened up on it?" Sam said. "No," John replied, smiling his cat's smile. "I was miles to the north, traveling to meet lyeyasu. You have never thought much of me, Samuel but you should get down on your knees now and kiss my hand in gratitude. Without me you would have lost all." "If you had told me Hacking was going to invade, I could have kept everything," Sam said. "We could have ambushed Hacking." The sun came up and struck the tawniness in John's hair and the peculiar gray-blue of his eyes. "Ah, yes, but lyeyasu would still have been a formidable problem. Now he's gone, and there rs Httle to keep us from ruling all the land we need, including the bauxite and platinum of Soul City and the iridium andtungsten of Selinujo. I presume you have no objections to conquering those two states?" T here was a bonanza in the aftermath. Hacking was taken prisoner and Gwenafra was found alive. Both had been pushed during the Fighting into the hills to the west. Hacking had been getting ready to lead a fresh charge against lyeyasu when the edge of the waters deluged his party, Gwenafra escaped, though she almost drowned. Hacking had been hurled against a tree. Both his legs and one arm were broken and he was bleeding internally. Sam and John hastened to where Hacking lay under an irontree. Gwenafra cried when she saw them and embraced Sam and Lothar. She seemed to give Sam a much longer embrace than she gave Lothar, which was not entirely unexpected, since she and Lothar had been quarreling violently before her capture. John wanted to finish off Hacking with-ome refined tortures, preferably as soon after breakfast as possible. Sam objected strongly. He knew that John could have his way if he insisted, since his men outnumbered Sam's by fifty to one. But Sam was past being cautious and John backed away. He needed Sam and Sam's men. "You had a dream, Sam," , Hacking said in a weak voice. "Well, I had one, too. A land where brothers and sisters could loaf and invite their souls. Where we'd be all black. You wouldn't know what that means. No white devils, no white-eyes. Just black soul brothers. A place like that would have been as near heaven as you can get in this hell of a world. Not that we wouldn't have had trouble, no place without trouble, man. But there wouldn't have been any white-man trouble. Life would have been ours. But that isn't to be." "You could have had your dream," Sam said, "if you'd waited. After the boat was built, we'd have left the iron to whoever could take it. And then -- " Hacking grimaced. Sweat covered him and his face was tight with pain. "Man, you must be out of your skull. You really think I believed that story about you sailing off on this quest for the Big Grail? I IF boat to conquer us blacks and lode ' wero Secoaf Cbuno  around us again. An . "You'll get over that," lAar Old South whit like you -- " said. He closed his eyes. Sam said, "You're wrong! If you knew me, if Tr'EE years passed. The land you'dtaken the trouble to know m.was iain like a sIwM-poeked me -- " battlefield, stiidcing with fume'Mld Hacking opened his eyes and black with smoke. But thejneat said, "You'd lie to a nigger even Riverboat was completdl. 're when he was on his deathbed, was nothing to do to it now ex wouldn't you?" He stared up at cept to try it out. Even the last Sam. "Shoot me, will you? Put me touch, the painting of the Riverout of my pain? I'm really sufferboat's name in big black letters on ing." the white hull, had been done. On Lothar stepped up beside Sam both sides of the hull, ten feet and said, "After what you did to above the water line, ran the He pointed the muzzle of the big "What does the name mean, flintlock at Hacking's head. Sam?" he had been asked by many. Hacking grinned painfully and "it means just what it says, conmuttered, "Rape on principle, trary to most words in print or mother! I swore oft that on speech," Sam said. "The boat is Earth -- but that woman just for no man's hire. It's a free boat brought out the devil in me! and its crew arefree souls. No Besides, so what? What about all man's." those black slave women you "And why is the boat's launch Sam walked away. Behind him "That comes from a dream I the pistol boomed. Hacking would had," Sam would say. "Somebody be walking along the banks of The was trying to put up advertising on River tomorrow, somewhere far it and I told him that the launch away. He and Sam might even see was built for no mercenary pureach other again, although Sam pose. What do you think  am, adwas not looking forward to that. vance agent for P. T. Barnum? I Lothar, stinking of gunpowder, said." caught up with him. There had been more to the "I should have let him suffer, dream, but Sam had told no one But old habits are hard to break. I except Joe about it. wanted to kill him, so I did. That The man who was pasting up black deviljust smiled at me." those garish posters, advertising "Don't say any more," Sam rethe coming of the greatest Riverplied. "I'm sick enough. I'm about boat of them all and the greatest to chuck the whole thing and settle Riverboat show of them all was down with a steady job of mis," Sam had told Joe.  was both sionarying. The only ones whose men in the dream. I dont get it, Tham, Joe had said. Sam had given up. The twenty-sixth anniversary of Resurrection Day was the day the sidewheeler Not For Hire first turned its paddles. The big moment came about an hour after the grailstones flamed to charge the breakfast grails. The cables and cap connected to the grailstone had been removed and the cables wound up within the hold through a port in the forward section on the starboard side. The grails had been removed from the stone a mile north and rushed to the big boat in the amphibious, armored, steam-driven launch, the Post No Bills, The fabulous Riverboat, gleaming white with red, black and green trimmings, moved out from the canal and into The River behind a huge breakwater on its starboard side. Whistles blowing, iron bells clanging, passengers cheering, people on the shore shouting, the magnificent paddlewheels churning. Not For Hire moved with stately grace out into The River. T he Riverboat had an overall length of four hundred and forty feet and six inches. The beam over the paddlewheel guards was ninety-three feet. The mean draft, loaded, was twelve feet. The giant electric motors driving the paddle-wheels delivered ten thousand shaft horse power. Top speed, theoretically, was forty-five miles an hour in still water. Going upstream against the fifteen-milean-hour current, it would be thirty. Going downstream, it would be sixty. The boat would be going up The River most of the time and cruising at fifteen miles an hour relative to the ground. There were four decks, the socalled boiler deck, the main deck, the hurricane deck and the landing deck. The pilothouse was at the fore edge of the hurricane deck and the lopg texas, containing the captain's and chief officers' quarters, was behind the pilothouse. However, the pilothousewas itself double-deck. It was set forward of the two tall but thin smokestacks, which rose thirty feet high. Firebrass had advised against the stacks, because the smoke from the big boilers (used only to heat water and to drive the machine guns) could be piped out on the side. But Sam had snorted and said, "What do I care about air resistance? I want beauty! And beauty is what we'll get! Whoever heard of a Riverboat without tall, graceful impressive smokestacks! Have you no soul, brother?" There were sixty-five cabins, each about twelve by twelve with snap-up beds and tables and folding chairs. Each cabin had a toilet and a wash basin with hot and cold running water and there was a shower for every six cabins. There were three big lounges, one in the texas, one on the hurricane deck, and one on the main deck. These held pool tables, dart games, gymnastic equipment, card tables, a movie screen, a stage for dramas ormusicals and the main deck lounge held a podium for the orchestra. The upper deck of the pilotIF house was luxuriously furnished with carved oak chairs and tables covered with red Riverdraon fish leather. The pilot sat in a large and comfortable swivel chair before the instrument board. On this was a bank of small closed-circuit TV screens, giving him views of the control centers of the boat. Before him was a microphone Which enabled him to speak to anybody on the boat. He controlled the boat with two levers on a small movable board before him. The left stick controlled the port wheel; the right, the starboard. A screen before him was a radar indicator used at night. Another screen showed him the depth of the water from the bottom of the boat as measured by sonar. A toggle on the instrument board could switch the piloting to automatic, though the rule was that a pilot had to be on duty at all times. Sam was dressed in bleached fish-leather sandals, a white kilt, a white cape and a white officer's cap of plastic and leather. He wore a bleached leather belt and holster for a ponderous Mark II .# four-shooter pistol and a sheath for a rapier. He paced back and forth, a big green cigar in his mouth, and watched the pilot, Robert Styles, steering the boat for the first time. Styles was an old Mississippi pilot, a handsome youth, no liar, though given to inflating facts. Sam had been overcome with joy when he had appeared about two years before. He had known Rob Styles when they were both Mississippi pilots. S tyles was nervous, as anybody would be the first time, even the steel-nerved Captain Isaiah Sellers of ancient Mississippi fame. There was nothing to piloting the boat -- a one-ey Sunday School teacher with a hangover could do it, his six-year-old child could do it, once he got the hang of the two sticks. Push 'forward for increased speed, put in the middle position to stop the wheels, pull back to reverse the wheels. To steer the boat to port, pull back a little on the port stick and forward a little on the starboard stick. To steer to starboard, do the reverse. But it took: some practice before the proper coordination was achieved. Luckily there was no memory work involved in piloting a boat on this River. There were no islands, no sand bars, and there would be few logs with snags. An alarm bell rang before the boat worked too close to shallow water. At night radar or sonar would indicate obstructions and activate a red light. Sam watched Styles for a halfhour, then took over the piloting and, after another half-hour, asked John if he would like to try. John was dressed entirely in black, as if he were determined to do just the opposite of whatever Sam did. But he took the sticks and did well for an ex-king who had never done a lick of worL in his life and had always let inferiors do whatever steering was necessary. The boat sailed up past the dead lyeyasu's kingdom, now split into three states again. Then Sam ordered the vessel turned back. Rob Styles got fancy and pivoted her a dime -- " as he said, to demonstrate her maneuverability. While the port wheel backed the starboard raced forward at full speed. The boat rotated as if stuck on a pin, then headed downstream. With the current and wind behind her and the paddlewheels turning at maximum speed, the No( For Hire raced along at sixty miles an hour. Sam had Styles bring her in close to the shore, where the sonar indicated about one foot of clearance between hull and bottom on the port side. Even above the slapping of the wheels and the splashing of water and the whistling and clanging of bells, they could hear the crowds. The faces whizzed by as if in a dream. Sam opened the fore portyof the pilothouse to feel the wind and heighten the impression of speed. The Not For Hire raced all the way downstream to Selinujo, then turned again. Sam wished, almost, that there were another boat that he could race against. But it was heaven enough to have the only metal electrically powered Riverboaf in existence. A man couldn't have everything, not even in the afterEarthlife. D uring the return trip the huge hatch in the stern was lowered and the launch slipped into The River. It cut back and forth at top speed and raced ahead of the mother boat. Its steam machine guns traced lines along the water and the thirty steam guns on the Not For Hire shot back, though not at the launch. The big three-place amphibianmonoplane came out of the opening in the stern, too. Its wings were straightened out and locked and it took off. Firebrass was at the controls. His woman and Gwenafra were passengers. A moment later the tiny oneseater open-cockpit scout-fighter was shot off the top of the texas by a steam catapult. Lothar von Richthofen took it up, woodalcohol motor buzzing, and raced ahead until he was out of sight. He returned, climbed and entertained with the first aerial acrobatics that the Riverworld had ever seen -- to the best of Sam's knowledge. Lothar concluded with a dive, at the end of which he fired four rockets and then the twin machine guns. These were .# caliber and fired aluminum bullets from aluminum cartridges. There were one hundred thousand of these stored on the boat. When they were used up there would be no more. Lothar landed the tiny monoplane on the landing deck on top of the texas and devices caught the hook trailed out by the plane. Even so, the whirling propeller stopped only ten feet from the smokestacks. Firebrass returned in the amphibian and later took the wheeled plane up for a flight. Sam looked down through the the fore part of the broad boiler deck. They marched back and forth and performed intricate maneuvers under Cyrano's orders. Their silvery duralumin plumed helmets were like those of the ancient Romans. They wore gray and red ;striped chainmail IF shirts halfway down their thighs. The question was, when would Their legs were cased in leather John strike? At the beginning, or boots. They carried rapiers, long much later during the voyage, knives and Mark II pistols. They when Sam's suspicions had been were the pistoleers only, howlulled? ever. The main part of the marines Actually the situation was intolwere watching the show; these erable. But then, it was surpriswere the bowmen and the rocking how much intolerableness a eteers. man could tolerate. Seeing Gwenafra's honeyA yellow haired near-giant encolored head in the crowd on the tered the pilothouse. His name was main deck made Sam happy. Augustus Strubewell. He was He saw Livy's dark head near John's aide-de-camp and had been her and was unhappy. picked up by John during his soGwenafra, after another six journ in lyeyasujo after Hackmonths of a jealousy-ridden life ing's invasion. He had been born with von Richthofen, had accepted in #I in San Diego, California, Sam's offer and moved in with had been an All-American fullhim. But Sam still could not see back, a captain of the U.S. MaLivy without some pain of loss. rines. Decorated for bravery in the Except for Livy and John he Middle East and South America, would have been as happy as he he had made a career in the could be. But she would be along movies and on TV. He seemed a throughout the forty-year journey, pleasant enough fellow except And John prowled through Sam's that, like John, he bragged of his nightmares. conquests among women. Sam did not trust him. Anybody who Sam be the captain and so unhave something wrong with him. hesitant about accepting the first Sam shrugged. He might as well mate's position that Sam knew he enjoy himself. Why let anything was up to no good. But when would rob him of the joy of the greatest The Mutiny, as Sam thought of it, day of his life? take place? It was inevitable that He leaned out of the port and John would try to take over the full watched the drill team and the command of the Riverboat and crowd. The sun sparkled on waves; any intelligent man, knowing the breeze was cooling, though he this, would have dumped him. did not need it. He could shut the But Sam had been too conports and turn on the air-conditionBloodaxe. He could not cdipmit the flag of the Not For Hire another assassination, not even if flapped in the wind. It was square he knew that John would not be and bore a scarlet phoenix on a permanently dead. A corpse was light blue field. The phoenix syma corpse and a doublecross was a bolized the rebirth of mankind, doublecross. He waved at the people massed along the bank and pressed a button that set off a series of steam whistles and clanging bells. He drew in smoke from his fine cigar, stuck out his chest and paraded back and forth. Strubewell handed John a glass full of bourbon and then he offered Sam one. Everybody in the pilothouse, Styles, the six other pilots, Joe Miller, von Richthofen, Firebrass, Publius Crassus, Mozart, John Lackland, Strubewell and three other aides of John took a glass. "A toast, gentlemen," John said in Esperanto. "To a long and happy journey and may we all get what we deserve." Sam, the top of his headlmost touching the ceiling, held a glass containing about half a quart of bourbon. He sniffed at the amber liquor with his monstrous proboscis and then tasted it with the tip of his tongue. Sam had been just about to toss down the four-ounce drink when he saw Joe's apish face grimace. "What's the matter, Joe?" "Thith thtuff hath thomething in it." Sam sniffed and could detect nothing but the most excellent of Kentucky's best. But when John and Strubewell and the others reached for their weapons he threw the liquor in John's face. Yelling, "It's poison -- " he dived for the floor. Strubewell's Mark II pistol boomed. The plastic bullet shattered against the bulletproof plastic of the port above Sam's head. Joe roared -- he sounded like a lion suddenly released from its cage -- and threw his liquor into Strubewell's eyes. The other aides fired and fired again. The Mark II pistols were four-shot revolvers. The powder in the aluminum cartridges was electrically ignited. They were larger and heavier than the Mark I's, but they could fired more swiftly and cordite, not black gunpowder, propelled the plastic bullets. The pilothouse became a fury of booming, deafening explosives, the scream of shattered plastic ricocheting, the shouts and screams of men and the subhuman bellowing of Joe. Sam rolled over, reached up and flicked the automatic pilot switch. Rob Styles was on the floor, his arm almost torn off. One of John's aides was dying in front of him. Strubewell went flying over him and banged against the glass and then fell on him. John was gone; he had fled down the ladder. Sam crawled out from under Strubewell. Four of his pilots were dead. All of the aides, except for Strubewell, who was only unconscious, were dead. Their necks had been broken or their jaws shattered by Joe. Mozart crouched, quivering, in a corner. Firebrass bled from cuts made by plastic fragments and Lothar from a gash in his arm. One of the aides had struck him with a knife just before Joe twisted his head # degrees. Sam rose shakily and looked through the port. The crowd on the IF deck had dispersed, but not without leaving a dozen bodies behind. The marines were firing at men shooting at them from around the sides of the main deck. Some of the fire seemed to be coming from cabin ports in the main deck. Cyrano stood with his rapidly dwindling crew, shouting orders. Then John's men charged, firing. Cyrano went down. He was up again instantly, his sword flashing silver, then red. The enemy broke and ran. Cyrano ran after them. Sam shouted, "You fool -- go back -- " but he was hot heard, of course. H e tried to struggle out of his shock. John had slipped something into their drinks, a poison or a sedative. Only Joe's subhumanly sensitive nose had saved Sam's people from drinking and allowing John to take over the pilothouse with little trouble. Sam looked out and ahead. Only a half-mile away was the huge breakwater behind which the boat was to anchor for the night. The long journey would officially begin tomorrow. He flicked off the automatic pilot toggle switch and took the control sticks in his hands. "Joe," he said, "I'm going to run this right up alongside the bank. I may even ground us. Get out the bullhorn. I'll tell the people ashore what's happened and we'll get help." He pulled back on the starboard stick and advanced the port stick. "What's happening?" he yelled. The boat was proceeding straight on its course up The River, holding to a distance of about a hundred yards off the shore. He moved the sticks back and forth, frantically, but the boat did not deviate. A voice came from the intercom, John's. "It's no use, Samuel, Boss, Captain, swine! I have control of the boat. My engineer, the man who will be chief engineer, put in a duplicate set of controls in -- never mind where. I have cut off your controls, and the boat will go where I want it to. So you don't have any advantage at all. Now my men will storm the pilothouse and take you. But I would prefer that there be as little damage as possible. So, if you will just get off the boat I will let you go unharmed. Provided, that is, that you can swim a hundred yards." Sam raged and swore and pounded his fists on the instrument panel. But the boat continued past the dock, while the crowds gathered there waved, cheered and wondered. Lothar said, "They're trying to sneak up on us -- " and fired at a man who had appeared around the far end of the texas on the hurricane deck. "We can't hold out long," Firebrass said. "We don't have much ammunition." Sam saw some men and women on the boiler deck; they were trying to make a stand. Livy was among them. She was firing a Mark II. John's men charged. A man thrust at Cyrano, who was engaged in running his rapier through the man next to him. Livy tried to knock the blade aside with her pistol and the sword went into her stomach. She fell, the sword still sticking out of her. The man who had killed her died a second later -- Cyrano's rapier went through his throat. Sam cried, "Livy! Livy!" He was out of the pilothouse and running down the ladder. Bullets screamed past him, smashed against the bulkheads and the ladder. He felt a stinging, then heard a shouting behind him, but he did not stop. He was vaguely aware that Joe Miller and the others had runout after him. Corpses and wounded were everywhere. The boat was turning into shore, its paddlewheels operating at full speed, the water flying, the wheels chuff-chuffing, the deck trembling. John was turning the boat into shore and Sam saw why. A number of heavily armed men and women had been posted at this section of The Riverbank. They would be the disaffected, Sam guessed, recruited from among the people who were angered because the lottery had cut them out of a place on the crew. John had mobilized them. Once they got aboard, they would mop up whatever resistance they met. S AM had run along the hurricane deck after leaving the pilothouse ladder. He gripped a pistol with two shots left in it in one hand and his rapier in the other. He did not know how they had gotten into his hands; he had no memory of having drawn either. A face appeared at the edge of the deck. He fired and it dropped. He was on the edge of the deck then and shooting even as he leaned over to look down the ladder. Sam's bullet did not miss this time. The man's chest erupted red and he fell down the ladder, taking two companions with him. But others on the deck below raised their pistols and he had to jump back. The volley missed him. Joe Miller said behind him, "Tham! Tham! There'th nothing to do but chump overboard! They got uth thurrounded." Below, Cyrano, still wielding his rapier, holding off three men at one time, backed to the railing. His blade pierced a throat, the man fell and Cyrano whirled and leaped over the railing. When he came up he began to swim strongly to get away from the starboard paddlewheel thrashing toward him. Bullets struck the sides of the cabins behind Sam, and Lothar cried, "Jump, Sam! Jump!" Joe had already turned and was running with his great axe toward the men firing from behind the rear of the cabins along the hurricane deck. Bullets streaked toward him, but he was depending upon his terrifying aspect and his prowess, which they well knew, to panic the shooters. Sam and Lothar ran behind him until they came to the paddlewheel housing, some ten feet from the edge of the hurricane deck. If they stood up on the railing and leaped out, they could grab hold of the big iron eyes through which cables had IF been secured when the housing had been placed over the wheel by the crane. They jumped, one after the other, while bullets screamed by. Each grabbed an eye, pulled himself to the top of the housing and hit the water from there. The water was thirty feet below, a height which would have made Sam hesitate under different conditions. This time, he went out, fell straight, holding his nose, and plunged into the water feet first. Sam dove. Several of the steam machine guns had been depressed and .# caliber bullets were probing for him. bullhorn: "Farewell, Sam! Thanks for building the Riverboat for me -- I'll change its name to one that'll suit me better! I'm going, to enjoy the fruits of your labors -- think of me as often as you please. Farewell!" His laughter blasted Sam's ears. Sam came out of his hiding place in a hut and climbed the wall on the edge of the water. The boat had stopped and let down a long gangplank on cables to permit the traitors to come aboard. He heard a voice below him and looked down. There was Joe, his reddish hairs black with water except where blood streaked it. "Lothar and Firebrath and Thyrano and Chohnthton made it," he said. "How you feel, Tham?" Sam sat down on the hardpacked dirt and said, "If it would do any good. I'd kill myself. This world is hell, Joe, genuine hell. You can't even commit a decent suicide. You wake up the next day and there you are with your prolv lems stuck on you with gluo." "Vhat do ve do now, Tham?" Sam did not reply for a long time. If he couldn't have Livy, Cyrano would not have her, either. He could endure the thought of having lost her if she was not where he could see her. Later, the shame at exulting in Cyrano's loss would come. Not now. He was too stunned. The loss of the boat had been even a greater shock than seeing Livy killed. After all these years of liard work, of grief, of betrayal, of planning, of hurting, of -- of -- It was too much to bear. Joe was grieved to see him cry, but he sat patiently by until Sam's tears had quit flowing. Then he asked, "Do ve thtart building another boat, Tham?" Sam Clemens rose to his feet. The gangplank was being drawn up by the electromechanical machinery of his fabulous Riverboat. ly and bells were clanging. John would still be laughing. He might even be watching Sam through a telescope. Sam shook his fist, hoping that John was watching him. "I'll get you yet!" he howled. "I'll build another boat and I'll catch up with you. I'll run you down, John, and I'll blast your stolen boat out of The River. Nobody, the Stranger, or his kind, no matter what their powers, is going to stop me!"  Reoding Room enough scientific thinking for half a dozen normal novels, only to set the background for a test of social theories. We see all the human drives in this microcosm, up and down from the alphas to the  Continued from page #) omegas in the pecking order. This challenge, obviously, is the real survival test -- a test that the whole human race has not done too well at to date, but one which these early adults must pass.  Hilton Airport Inn, San Francisco, California. Guest-of-Honor: Avram Davidson; Fan Guest-of-Honor: Don Simpson. Membership: # to June #, # thereafter. For information: Astrid Anderson, # Las Palomas, Orinda, California #.  Hilton Hotel, Dallas, Texas. Guest-ofHonor: Robert Bloch; Fan Guest-ofHonor: Andy Offutt. Membership: # in advance; # at the door. For information: D-Con, Box #, Lewisville, Texas #.  At Chatham Center Motor Inn, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Guest-of-Honor: Lester del Rey; Guest-of-Honor Emeritus: Robert Silverberg. For information: Ginjer Buchanan, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #.  Royale, New Orleans, Guest-ofHonor: Poul Anderson. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: Mrs. Rick Norwood, # Wilton Drive, New Orleans, Louisiana #.  buquerque, New Mexico. For information: Bob Yardman, P.O. Box #, Albuquerque, New Mexico #.  #th World Science Fiction Convention. At the Sheraton-Boston Hotel, Prudential Center, Boston, Massachusetts. Guest-of-Honor: Clifford D. Simak. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Harry Warner Jr. For information: Noreascon, P.O. Box #, Cambridge, Massachusetts #. Top-flight science fiction and fantasy from...  Eight mind-bending tales conceived and executed by the richest imaginations in science fiction: Arthur Ce Clarke, Robert Silverberg, Cordwainer Smith, Fritz Leiber, Poul Anderson, John Campbell, Jre and Jack Vancee A#S #(t Ten dazzling stories that explore the complex relation between modern man and his machines. The authors include Lester del Rey, Robert Silverberg, Fritz Leiber, James Blish, Brian Aldiss and other top-notch names. A#N #(t A pair of scientists challenge the time barrier and fall Into a horrible mind-twisting trap. "Rene Barjavel has feeling for the fantastic -- knows how to build a suspenseful story." Enter a terrifying world of tomorrow where perversity is encouraged and insanity is enforced -- a world whose beginnings are even now stirring! A#S #(t Available wherever books are sold, or write: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. # What do you think would happen if: A group of workers controlling all the nation's transportation decided to strike? A temperamental child could destroy anything displeasing him? A key defense scientist became convinced man was no more than a high-class bacterium cultured by a superior life form? Machines created to think like people developed people emotions? If these questions intrigue, we invite you to sample the solutions devised by some of the world's great writers. You'll find them in The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, one of the fascinating books that can be yours with membership in the Science Fiction Book Club. Choose any # books for #, plus shipping and handling. You can include if you wish, The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, the stories "every real reader of science fiction has to know." Lester del Key. Broaden your pleasure with the Science Fiction Book Club. The coupon tells how. with trial membership if #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners," chosen by Scl-Pi Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. # pages.   ed. # Science Fiction Book Ciub #-S#S Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have printed below. Bill me just # plus shipping and handling for all #. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin "Things To Come" describing the two monthly selections and other book bargains. If I do not wish to receive one of the two monthly selecUons. or prefer an alternate or no book at all. I simply indicate so on the form provided. I pay only #, plus shipping and handling for each book I take. (Occasional extra-value selections are slightly more.) I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign any time after purchasing # books. introductory package. I may return it in # days. Membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing.  c MR. If under #. parent must sign above. flflxiclllg!. #. Ice Crown by Andre Norton. A closed planet holds strange colonists locked in intrigue over a royal crown with dread power. Pub. ed. # #. Dangerous Visions ed. by Harlan Ellison. Anthology of # stories never before in print by Sturgeon. Anderson. others. Pub, ed. # #. Beyond the Beyond by Poul Anderson. Six novellas by Hugo Award winner. About scientists, pirates, loners. #. Neanderthal Planet by Brian W. Aldlss. # novella gems. Never before published in U.S. ! Shrewd, witty. Ingenious. by James Blish. Seven strangely compelling stories with emphasis on our inescapable humanity. Pub. ed. # #. Rockets in Ursa Major by Fred Hoyle and Geoffrey Hoyle. A spaceship returns crewle.ss. announcing the coming of a deadly peril. Pub. ed. # #. Five Fates. A remarkable tour de force. Five top writers supply their own endings for "After life, what?" Pub. ed. # #. Quest for the Future by A. E. Van Vogt. The electrifying adventure of the man who discovers immortality and the secrets of time. #. The Year # An Anthology edited by Harry Harrison.Thirteen compelling new stories on the quality of life # years from now Pub. ed. # #. Prelude to Mars by Arthur C. Clarke. Two complete novels. Sands of Mars and Prelude to Space, # short stories, by the sci-fl "colossus." Pub. ed. # #. The Last Hurrah of the Golden Horde by Norman Spinshort stories by the new young scl-fl giant. #. A Treasury of Great Science Fiction , ed . by Anthony Boucher. # Volume set. # pages. Counts as one book. Pub. ed. # Book Club editions are sometimes reduced in sire, but they are all full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S.A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly'diftprent in Canada. Printed in U.S.A wuntud ur Big new Relief novel, complete in this issue Harry Harrison Robert F. Young Can Freddie Fong Fine save the world? If so, should he? If you have never asked yourself either of these questions, it is time Lupoff does ask them. Whether he answers them is another matter. Along the way, we encounter the Sacred Locomotive, the Israeli hyponuclear submarine Traif, the Phantom Tanager (andor Cockatoo, etc.). Mavis Montreal the groupie, the enormous cavern beneath the earth, Ali the lady Mars pilot, and other denizens and features of the world of #. And each thinking reader will ask himself more than once: "It could get this bad in only fourteen years? Or is it this bad now?" -- tastic chillers by the top writers of this century. In October we have our collection of H. P. Lovecraft's collaborations with other writers; Lady goodies from our Lovecraft, SF ghost and horror backlists. Kelley; more adventures of Summer of Muckrake by Ron Goulart; more ghost and horror-story collections. Also P. G. Wodehouse -- could there be a new Fandom here? An Inte# Publisher #I Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. # All SFhorrorghost titles # each at your bookstore. If not available, you may order from Dept. CS, Beagle Books, # West # Street, New York, N.Y. #. Add per title for postage and handling. Sptmnbr-Octebr, #I Vol.#,No. I Ml I # Ejlmr Jakobsson, Editor Lester del Rey, Feature Editor Judy Lynn Benjamin, Managing Editor Franc I . Roggeri, Art Director Jay Tunick, Circulation Director LX. Murphy, Subscription Director Jack Gaughan, Associate Art Director coMPicre NoviL L. Sprague de Camp # Cover photography by Bruce Roggeri, tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, President. Main offices: # East # Street, New York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issue subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, Golfdom, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. and '  f 'j i 'l'ic" . Sir: J. W. Zabei has in the Mar j Apr Hue and Cry made an honest effort to codify via eight descriptive points the function of science fiction. His efforts don't appear to me to be completely rational, though. For each acceptable description, hi has produced twice as many ambiguous and incorrect descriptions of xhpjtote of the art.  Science fiction exercises the. imagination, deliberately, a facet setting it aside from other genre. Score one Zabei. But in other penetrations into the readers' minds SF does nothing that is unique-T-nor different. Reading anything will develop perspective -- whether that perspective devolves onto one's self or on the world, whether one enjoys it or not, even if one fads completely to understand what he is reading. (Failure at least shows the limits of the redder, a new signpost' for self-development.) Science fiction doesn't do those things exclusively, or even on purpose. As for expanding readers' interests into the arts, science fiction is a veritable gold mine of s,cientific news and predictions in fictional, form. But art? The arts developed in sf are immature in axtiparison to other narrative writing. Many stories published as sf. though very entertaining. exist only for the gimmick involved -- or to communicate a scientific idea -- and can't stand up to the question: "Is it art?". Even the New Wave endeavors only repeat techniques abandoned forty years ago, while Brunner's magnificent Stand Oii Zanzibar owes a lot to John Dos Passos. And politics? Politics are a part of everyday life, whether civic or social, and science fiction has yet to do anything but adqt this human preoccupation. Science fiction examines ideas pragmatically. What else can a genre based on ideas do: each new thought has to be milked completdy. What other type of literature is still reworking story ideas first published ninety years ago, as we do with Wells, Verne, etc? Sf examines the consequences of change? Zabel's statement here is too ambiguous to answer. Every story told by man (myth, news story, mystery, sf, mainstream) is built on change for nobody is interested in non-change. Who'd write arty thing based on: "The rock sat? If the rock were different or changed the environment somehow -- yes. But only conflict -- change -- makes stories. Scientifiction has always wedded art to science. Yet sf no longer rrterely weds art to science and this is Just a fragment of the definition. Zabel's point, "The illustration of principles," is Just a qualifier for the scientifiction defini( Please turn to page #) Secrets entrusted to a few l!ulUipuSmedati-oM be generaHy told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accomplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hid den processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes toaay. organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of me book, "The Mastery of Life. Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe A J.D. I Scribe A.J.D. i I San Jose, California # I j Please send me the jree book. The Mastery  I o Uje. which explains how I may learn to j I use my faculties and powers of mind. j I Name --  The Rosicrudans (not a religious  Rosicnicians (AM City Zip Code -- The Rat had to return to Planet Dirt -- if only he could find it in Time! #  crook, James  Bolivar diGriz," Inskipp said, making animal noises deep in his throat while shaking the sheaf of papers viciously in my direction. I leaned back against the sideboard in his ofHce, a picture of shocked sincerity. "I am innocent," I sobbed: "A victim of a campaign of cold calculating lies." I had his humidor behind my back and by touch alone -- I really ant good at this sort of thing -- I felt for the lock. 'Embezzlement, swindling and worse -- the reports are still coming in. You have been cheating your own organization, our Special Corps, your own buddies -- " "Never!" I cried, lockpick busy in my fingers. "They don't call you Slippery Jim for nothing -- " "A mistake, a childish nickname. My mother found nie a slippery baby when soaping me in the bath." The humidor sprang open and my nose twitched at the aroma of fragrant leaf. "Do you know how much you have stolen?" His face was bright red now and his eyes were beginning to bulge in a highly unattractive manner. "Me? Steal? I would rather die first!" I declaimed movingly as I slipped out handful of the incredibly expensive cigars desput them to a far more important use by smoking them myself. I am forced to admit that my attention was more On the purloined tobacco than on Inskipp's tedious complaints and I did not at first notice the change in his voice. But suddenly I realized that I could barely hear his words -- hot that he was whispering. It was more as though there were a volume control in his throat that had suddenly been turned down. "Speak up, Inskipp," I told him firmly. "Or are you suddenly beset with guilt over these false accusations?" I stepped away from the sideboard, half turning as I moved in order to mask the fact that I was slipping about a hundred credits' worth of exotic tobacco into my pocket. He prattled on weakly, ignoring me, shaking the papers soundlessly now. "Aren't you feeling well?" I asked this with a certain amount of real concern, because he was beginning to sound quite distant. He did not turn his head to look at me when I moved but instead kept staring at the place where I had been, nattering away in an inaudible voice. And he was looking pale. I blinked and looked again. Not pale, transparent. The back of his chair was very definitely becoming visible through his head. "Stop it!" I shouted, but he did not appear to hear. "What games are you playing? Is this some soil of #D projection to fool me? Why bother? Slippery Jim's not the kind who can be fooled, ha-ha!" Walking quickly across the room I put out my hand and poked IF my index Anger into his forehead. It went in -- there was slight resistance -- and he did not seem to mind in the least. But when I withdrew it there was a slight popping sound and he vanished completely while the sheaf of papers, now unsupported, fell to the desktop. "Whargh!" I grunted, or something equally incomprehensible. I bent to look for hidden devices under the chair when, with a nasty crunching sound, the offlce door was broken down. N OW this was something I could understand. I whirled about, still in the crouch, and was ready for the Arst man when he came through. The hard edge of my hand got him in the throat, right under the gas mask, and he gurgled and dropped. But there were plenty more behind him, all with masks and white coats, wearing little black packs on their backs, either bareAsted or carrying improvised clubs. It was all very unusual. Weight of numbers forced me back but I caught one of them under the chin with my toe while a hard jab to the solar plexus polished off another. Then I had my shoulders to the wall and they began to swarm over me. I smashed one of them across the back of the neck and he fell. And vanished halfway to the Aoor. This was very interesting. The number of people in the room began to change rapidfy now as some of the men I hit snuffed out of sight. A good thing that helped even the ds, except for the fact that others kept appearing out of thin air at about the same rate. I struggled to get to the door; could not make it. Then the club got me in the side of the head and scrambled my brains nicely. After that it was like trying to Aght slow-motion under water. I hit a few more of them but my heart wasn't really in it. They had my arms and legs and began to drag me from the room. I writhed about a certain amount and cursed them fluently in a half dozen languages but all of this had just about the results you would expect. They rushed me from the room and down the corridor and into the waitingelevator. One of them held up a canister and I tried to turn my head aiyay, but the blast of gas caught me full in the face. It did nothing for me that I could feel, though ! did get angrier. Kicking and snapping my teeth and shouting insults. The masked men mumbled back in what might have been irritated mutterings, which only goaded me to greater fury. By the time we reached our destination I was ready to kill -- which I normally do not And easy to do -- and certainly , would have if I hadn't been strapped into a gadgety electric chair and had electrodes fastened to my wrists and ankles. Tell them that Jim diGriz died like a man, you dogs!" I shouted, not without a certain amount of slavering and foaming. A metal helmet was lowered over my head and just before it covered my face I managed to call out, "Up the Special Corps! And up your -- " Darkness descend and I was aware that death or electrocution or brain destruction or worse was imminent. N othing happened and the helmet was raised again and one of the attackers gave me another shot in the face from a canister and I felt the overwhelming anger draining away as fast as it had arrived. I blinked a bit'at this and saw that they were freeing my arms and legs. I aJso saw that most of them had their masks off now and were recognizable as the Corps technicians and scientists who usually puttered about this lab. "Someone wouldn't like to tell me just what the hell is going on, would they?" "Let me fix this first," one of them said, a gray-haired man with .buckteeth like old yellowed gravestones caught between his lips. He hung one of the black packs from my shoulder and pulled a length of wire from it that had a metal button on the end. He teuched the button to the back of my neck, where it stuck. "You?re Professor Coypu,aren't you?" "I am." The teeth moved up and down like piano keys. "Would you think me rude if I asked for an explanation?" "Not at all. Only natural under the circumstances. Terribly sorry we had to rough you up. Only way. Get you off balance, keep you angry. The angry, mind exists only for itself and can survive by Itself. If we had tried to reason, to tell you the problem, we would have defeated our own purpose. So we attacked. Gave you the anger gas as well as breathing it oursdves. Only thing to do. Oh, blast, there goes Magistero. It's getting stronger even in here." One of the white-coated men shimmered and grew transparent, then vanished. "Inskipp went that way," I said. "He would. First to go you know." "Why?" I asked, smiling warmly, thinking that this was the most idiotic conversation I had ever had. "They are after the Corps. Pick off the top people first." "Who?" "Don't know." I heard my teeth grating together but managed to keep my temper. "Would you kindly explain in greater detail or find someone who can make more sense of this affair than you have been doing." "Sorry. My fault entirely." He dabbed at a beading of sweat on his forehead and a whisk of red tongue dampened the dry enls of his teeth. "It all came about so fast, you know. Emergency measures, everything. Time war I imagine one might call it. Someone, somewhere, somewhen, is tampering with time. Naturally they had to pick the Special Corps as their first target, no matter what other ambitions they might have. Since the Corps is the most effective, most widespread supranational and supra-planetal lawenforcement organization in the history of the galaxy we automatically become the main obstacle in their path. Sooner or later in any ambitious time-changing plan they run up against the Corps. They have therefore elected to do it sooner. If they can eliminate Inskipp and the other top people the probability of the Corps' existence will be lowered and we'll all snuff out like poor Magistero did just then." I blinked rapidly. "Do you think we could have a drink that might act as a bit of lubricant to my thoughts?" "Splendid idea, join you myself." The dispenser produced a sickly sort of green liquid tht he favored but I dialed for a large Syrian Panther Sweat, most of which I drained with the first swallow. This frightening beverage -- who hideous aftereffects forbade its sale oh most civilized worlds -- did me nothing but good at that moment. I finished the glass and a sudden memory popped up out of the tangled jumble of my subconscious. "Stop me if I'm wrong, but didn't I hear you lecture once about the impossibility of time travel?" "Of course. My specialty. Smoke screen, that talk. We've had time travel for years here. Afraid to use it, though. Alter time tracks and all that sort of trouble. Just the kind of thing that is happening now. But we have had a continuing project of resear and time investigation. Which is why we knew what was happening when it began to happen. The alarms were going off and we had no time to warn anyone -- not that warnings would do any good. We were aware of our duty. Plus the fact that we were the only ones who could do anything at all. We jury rigged a time-fixator around this laboratory, then made the smaller pprtable models, such as the one you are wearipg now." "What does it do?" I asked, touching with great respect the metal disk on the nape of my neck. "Has a recording of your memory that it keeps feeding back onds. Telling you that you are, that you see, and rebuilding any personality changes that time-line alterations in the past may have shifted. "Purely a defensiye mechanism, but it is all we have." Out of the corner of my eye I saw another man wink out of sight and the professor's voice grew grim. "We must attack if we are to save the Corps." "Attack? How?" ""Send someone back in time to uncover the forces waging this time war. and destroy them before they destroy us. We have a machine." "I volunteer. Sounds like my kind of job." "There is no way to return. It is a one-way mission." "I withdraw the last statement. I like it here." Sudden memory -- onds earlier -- grabbed me and a prod of fear pumped a number of interesting chemical substances into my blood. "Angelina, my Angelina. I must speak to her -- " "She is not the only one." "The only one for me. Professor. Now stand aside or I'll go through you." H e stepped back, frowning and mumbling and tapping his teeth with his fingernails, and I jabbed the code into the phone. The screen beeped twice and the few seconds crawled by like lead snails before she answered the call. "You're there?" I gasped.' "Where did you expect me to be?" A frown crxsed her perfect features and she sniffed as though to get the aroma of booze from the screen. "You've been drinking -- and so early too." "Just a drop, but that's not why I called. How are you? You look great, not transparent at all." "A drop? Sounds more like a whole bottle." Her voice chilled and there was more than a trace left of the old, unreformed Angelina, the most ruthless and deadly crook in the galaxy before the Corps medics straightened out the knots in her brain. "I suggest you hang up. Get a drive-right pill, then call me back as soon as you are sober." She reached out for the disconnect button. "Dont I am cold sober and wish I weren't. This is an emergency, red A top priority. Get over here now as absolutely fast as you can. "Of course." She was on her feet instantly, ready to go. "Where are you?" "The location of this lab?" I asked, turning to Professor Coypu. "Level one-hundred and twelve. Room thirty." "Did you get that," I said, turning back to the screen. Which was blank. "Angelina -- " . I jabbed the disconnect, tapped her code on the keys. The screen lit IF Someone clutched at my shoulder, but I brushed him aside, grabbed the door and flung it open. There was nothing outside. A formless, colorless nothing that did strange things to my brain when I looked k it. Then the door was pulled from my hand and slammed shut and Coypu stood with his back to it, breathing heavily, his features twisted by the same unnameable sensations I had felt. "Gone," he said hoarsely. "The corridor, the entire station, all the buildings, everything. Gone. Just this laboratory is left; locked here by the time-fixator. The Special Corps no longer exists; no one in the galaxy has even a memory of us. When the time-fixator goes we go as well." "Angelina, where is she -- where are they all?" "They were never boro, never existed." "But I can remember her -- all of them." "That is what we count upoi). As long as there is one person alive with memories of us, of the Corps, we stand a microscopic chance of eventual survival. Someone must stop the time attack. If not for the Corps, for the sake of civilization. History is now being rewritten. But not inflexibly, if we can counterattack." A one-way trip back to a lifetime on an dien world, in an alien time. Whoever went would be the loneliest man alive, living thousands of years before his people, his friends, would even be borji. "Get ready," I said. "I'll go." IIT where you are going. And when." Professor Coypu staggered across the laboratory and I followed, in almost as bad shape. He was mumbling over the accordion sheets of the computer printout that were chuntering and pouring from the machine and piling up on the floor. "Must be accurate, very accurate," he said. "We have been running a time probe backward. Following the traces of these disturbances. We have found the particular planet. Now we must zero in on the time. If you arrive too late they may have already finished their job. Too early and you might die of old age before the fiends are even born." "Sounds charming. What is the planet?" "Strange name. Or rather names. It is called Dirt or Earth or something like that. Supposed to be the legendary home of all mankind." "Another one?, I never heard of it." "No reason you should. Blown up in an atomic war ages ago. Here it is. You have to be pushed backwards thirty-two thousand, five hundred and ninety-eight years. We can't guarantee anything better than a plus or minus three months at that distance." "I don't think I'll notice. What year will that be?" "Well before our present calendar began. It is, I believe, # A.D. by the primitive records of the aborigines of the time." "Not so aboriginal if they're fiddling with time travel." "Probably not them at all. Chances are the people you are looking for are just operating in that period." "How do I find thfipi?!' "With this." One of the assistants handed me a small black box with dials and buttons on it, as well as a transparent bulge that contain a free-floating needle. The needle quivered like a hunting dog and continued to. point in the same direction no matter how I turned the box. "A detector of temporal energy generators," Coypu said. "A less sensitive and portable version of our larger machines. Right now it is pointing at our time-helix. When you arrive at this planet. Dirt, you will use it to seek out the people you want. This other dial is for field strength and will give you an approximation of the distance to the energy source." I looked at the box and felt the first bubbling and seething of an idea. "If I can carry this I can take other equipment with me, right?" "Correct. Small items that can be secured close to your body. The time field generates a surface charge that is not unlike static electricity." "Then I'll take whatever weapons or armament you have here in the lab." "There is not very much. We have only the smaller items." "Then I'll make my own. Are there any weapons technicians working here?" He looked around and thout. "Old Jarl, there, was in the weapons sections. But we have no time to fabricate anythii." "That's not what I bad in mind. Get him." Old Jarl bad taken bis rejuvenation treatments recently so he looked like a world-soiled nineteen-year-old -- with an ancient and suspicious look in his eye as he came closer. "I want that box," I said, pointing to the memory unit on his back. He whinnied like a prodded pony and skittered away clutching to the thing. "Mine, I tell you mine! You can't have it. Not fair even to ask. Without it I'll just fade away." Tears of senile self-pity rose to his eyes. "Control yourself, Jarl. I don't want to fade you out, I just want a duplicate of the box. Get cracking on it." IF He shambled away mumbling to himself and the technicians closed in. "I don't understand," Coypu said. "Simple. If I am gunning after a large organization I may need some heavy weapon. If I do I'll plug old Jarl into my brain and use his memories to build them." "But -- he will be you, take over your body -- it has never been done." "It's being done now. Desperate times demand desperate measures. Which brings us to another important point. You said this would be a one-way trip through time and that I couldn't return." "Yes. The time-helix hurls you into the past. There will be no helix there to return you." "But if one could be built there, I could return?" "Theoretically. But it has never been tried. Much of the equipment and materials would not be available among the primitive natives." "But if the materials were available a time-helix could be built. Now who do you know that could build it?" "Only myself. The helix is of my own construction and design." "Great. I'll want your memory box too. Be sure you boys paint your names on the outside so I don't hook up with the wrong specialist." The technicians grabbed for the professor. "The time-flxator is losing power!" one of the engineers shouted in a voice fllled with rising hysteria. "When the field goes down we die. We will never have existed. It can't be -- " He screamed, then fell over as one of his mates gave him a faceful of knockout gas. "Hurry!" Coypu shouted, "Take diGriz to the time-helix, prepare him -- " T hey grabbed me and rushed me into the next room, shouting instructions at one another: They almost dropped me when two of the technicians vanished at the same moment. Most of the voices had hysterical overtones -- as well they might with the world coming to an end. Some of the more distant walls were already becoming misty and vague. Only training and experience kept me from panicking too. I finally had to push them away from the emergency spacesuit they were trying to jam me into in order to close the fastenings myself. Professor Coypu was the only other cool one in the whole crowd. "Seat the helmet but leave the faceplate open until the last minute. That's fine. Here are the memories -- I suggest the leg. pocket would be the safest place. The grav-chute on your back -- I assume you know how to operate it. These weapon canisters across your chest. The temporal detector here -- " There was more like this until I could hardly stand. I didn't complain. If I didn't take it -- I wouldn't have it. Hang on more. "A language unit," I said. "How can I speak to the natives if I don't know their language?" "We don't have one here," Coypu said, tucking a rack of gas containers under my arm. "But here is a memorygram -- " "They give me headaches." " -- that you can use to, learn the local tongue. In this pocket." "What do I do? You haven't explained. How do I arrive?" "Very high. In the stratosphere that is. Less chance of colliding with anything material.We'll get you there. After that you're on your own." "The front lab is gone -- " someone shouted, and popped out of existence at almost the same instant. "To the time-helix," Goypu called out hoarsely and they dragged me through the door. Slower and slower, as the scientists and technicians vanished from sight like pricked balloons until there were only four of them left and, heavily burdened, I staggered along at a decrepit waddle. "The time-helix," Coypu said breathlessly. "It is a bar, a column of pure force that has been warped into a helix and put under tension." It was green and glittered and almost filled the room, a coiled form of sparkling light as thick as my arm. "It's like a big spring that you have wound up." "Yes, perhaps. We prefer to call it a time-helix. It has been wound up -- put under tension, the force carefully calculated. You will be placed at the outer end and the restraining latch release#. As you are flung into the past the helix will hurl itself into the future where the energies will gradually dissipate. You must go." There were just three of us left. "Remember me," the short dark technician called out. "Remember Charli Nate. As long as you remember me I'll never -- " Coypu and I were alone, the walls going, the air darkening. "The end -- touch it -- " he called out. Was his voice weaker? I stumbled, partly fell toward the glowing end of the helix, my fingers outstretched. There was no sensation, but when I touched it I was instantly surrounded by the same green glow, could barely see through it. The professor was at a console, working the controls, reaching for a rather large switch. Pulling it down. Ill Professor Coypu stood frozen IF at the controls. His hand locked on Something moved. I was tugged the closed switch. I had been facin a way that is impossible to deing in his direction or I would pot scribe and mov in a direction I have seen this because my eyes never knew existed before. The were fixed rigidly ahead. My by time-helix was beginning to unwas rigid as well -- and my brain coil. Or perhaps it had been ungave a flutter of panic and tried to coiling all the while and the alteratounce around in its bony pan  I tion in time had concealed my realized that I had stopped breathawareness of it. Certainly some ing. For all I knew my heart wasn't of the stars appeared to be movbeating either. Something had ing faster -- and faster -- until they gone wrong, I was sure of that, made little blurred lines. It was since the time-helix was still tightnot a reassuring sight and f tried ly coiled. More soundless panic as to close my eyes, but the paralysis Coypu grew transparent and the still clutched me. A star whipped walls behind him took, on a defby, close enough so that I could See initely hazy quality. It was all goits disk, and burned an afteirimage ing, fading before my eyes, across my retina. Everything Would I be next? There was no way speeded up as my time velocity acof knowing. ' celerated and eventually space A primitive part of my mind, the became a gray blur as even stellar ape-man's heir, jibbered and events became too fast for me to wailed and rushed' about in little see. This blur had a hypnotic circles. Yet at the same time I felt feet, or my brain was affected by a cold objectivity and interest -- the time motion, because my not everyone is privileged to watch thoughts became thoroughly the dissolving of his world while muddled. I sank into a quasi-state hanging from a helical force field somewhere between sleep and unthat may possibly whip him back consciousness that lasted a very into the remote past. It was a long time. Or a short time, I'm not privilege I would have been happy really sure. It could have been att to pass on to any volunteers. None instant or it could have been eternpresented themselves, so I hung ity. Perhaps there .was some there, popeyed and stiff as a statue corner of my brain that remained while the laboratory faded away aware of the terrible slow passage around me and I was floating in of all those years buty if so, I do not interstellar space. Apparently care to think about it. Survival has even the asteroid on which the always been rather important to Special Corps base had been built . me and as a stainless steel rat in no longer had any reality in this among the concrete passages of new universe. society I look only to myself for aid. There are more ways to fail than to succeed, to gp mad than to stay sane, and I needed all my mental energies to find the right Course. So I existed and stayed relatively sane during the insane temporal voyage and waited for something to happen. After an immeasurable period of time something did. even more draihatic than the beginning of the journey .as everything happened all at once. I could move again. I could see again -- the light blinded me at first -- and I was aware of all the bodily sensations that had been suspended so long. More than that, #was falling. My long-paralyzed stomach gave a twist and the adrenalin and like substances that my brain had been longing to pour into my blood for thepast # years -- give or take three months -- pumped in and my heart began to thud in a healthily excited manner. As I fell I turned and the sun was out of my eyes and I looked out. at a black sky and down at fluffy white clouds far below. Was this it? Dirt, the mysterious homeland of mankind? There was no telling, but it was still a distinct pleasure to be somewhere and somewhen without things dissolving around me. All of my equipment seemed still tobe with me and when I touched the control on my wrist I could feel the tug of the grav-chute taking hold. Great. I turned it off and dropped free again until I felt the first traces of thin atmosphere pulling at the suit. By the time I came to the clouds I was falling gently as a leaf, plunging feet first into their wet embrace. I slowed the rate of fall even more as I dropped blind, rubbing at the condensation on the faceplate of the spacesuit. Then I was out of the clouds, turned the control to hover and took a slow look around at this new world, perhaps the home of mankind, surely my home forever. Above me the clouds hung like a soft wet ceiling. There were trees meters below, the Retails blurred by my wet faceplate! I had to try the atmosphere here sooner or later and, hoping my remote ancestors were not methane breathers', I cracked the faceplate and took a quick sniff. Not bad. Gold and a little thin at this height, but sweet and fresh. And it didn't kill me. I opened the faceplate wide, breathed deeply and looked down at the world below. Pleasant enough from this altitude. Rolling green hills covered with trees of some kind, blue lakes, roads cutting sharply through the valleys, some sort of city on the horizon boiling out clouds of pollution. I'd stay as far away from that as possible for the time being. I had to establish myself first, see about... IF the sound bad been pushing at my awareness, a thin humming like an insect. But there shouldn't hav# been insects at this altitude. I would.have thought of this sooner if my attention hadn't been on the landscape below. Just about the time I realized this the humming grew to a roar and I twisted to look over my shoulder. Gaping. At the globular flying craft supported by an archaic rotating airfoil of some kind, behind the transparent sides of which sat a man gaping back at me. I slammed the wrist controller to protecting cloud. Not a good beginning. The pilot had had a fiie look at me, although there was always the chance that he might have disbelieved what he had seen. But he had believed. The communicators in this age had to be most sophisticated, the military's preparedness or paranoia equally so, because within a few minutes I heard the rumble of powerful jets below. They circled a bit, roaring and bellowing, and one even shot up through the clouds. I had a quick glimpse of an arrow-like silver form before it was gone, the clouds roiling and seething in its wake. It was time to leave. The lateral control on a grav-chute isn't too precise but I wobbled off through the clouds to put as much room between myself and those machines as I could. When I had not heat'd them for some time I risked a drop down just below the cloud levej. Nothing. In any direction. I snapped my faceplate shut and cut all the power; The drop in free fall could not have taken very long, though it seemed a lot longer. I had unhealthy visions of detectors clattering, computers digesting the information and pointing mechanical fingers, mighty machines of war whistling and roaring toward me. I rotated as I fell, squinting my eyes for the first sight of shining metal. Nothing at all happened. Some large white birds flapped slowly along, veering off with sharp squawks as I plunged by. There was the blue mirror of a lake below and I gave a nudge of power that moved me toward it. If the pursuit did show up Icould drop under the surface and out of detection range. When I was below the level of the surrounding hills with the water rushing up uncomfortably close below, I slammed on the power. I shuddered and groaned and felt the straps cutting deep into my flesh. The grav-chute on my back grew uncomfortably warm, though I began to sweat for a different reason. It was still a long fall -- to .water hard as steel from this height. ing, my feet were in the water. Not a bad lairing ait all' There was still #)# sign of pursuit as I lifted a bit above the surface and drifted toward the gray cliff that fell directly into the lake on the far side. The air smelled good when I opened the faceplate again -- and everything was silent. No voices, no sounds of machines. Nor signs of human habitation. When I came closer to the shore I heard the wind in the leaves but. that was all. Great. I needed a place to hole up until I, got my barings and this would do just fine. The gray clifitumed out to be a wall of solid rock. Inaccessible and high. I drifted along its face until I found a ledge wide enough to !sit on, so I sat. It felt good. Been a long time since t sat down," I said aloud, pleased to hear my voice. Yeah, my evil subconscious snapped# ack, about thirty-three thousand years. I was depressed again and wishod that I hs a drink. But that was the one essential item I had neglected to bring, a mistake I would have to rectify quickly . With the power cu, the spacesuit began to warm up in the sun and I stripped it off, placing all the items of equipment against the rock far from the edge. What next? I felt Something crunch in my side pocket and pulled out a handful of hideously expensive and broken cigars. A tragedy. By some miracle few were intact. I snapped the end to ignite it and breathed deeply. Wonderful! I smoked for a bit, my legs dangling over the drop below, and let my morale build up to its normal, highly efficient level. A fish broke through the surface of the lake and splashed back; some small birds twittered in the trees and I thought about the next step. I needed shelter, but the more I moved aroui to find it the more chance I had of being discovered. Why couldn't I stay right here? Among the assorted junk I had been draped with at the last minute was a laboratory tool called a masser. I had started to complain at the time, but it had been hung on my waist before I had managed to say anything...! considered it now. The handgrip that contained the power source blossomed out into a bulbous body which thinned again into a sharp, spikelike prod. A field was generated at the end that had the interesting ability of being able to concentrate most forms of matter by increasing the binding energy in the niolecules. This would crunch thein togetherinto a smaller space, though they of course, still had the same, mass. Some things, depending upon the material and the power used, could be compressed up to . one-half their original size. At the other end the ledge narrowed until it vanished. I walked along it as far as I safely could. Reaching out, I pressed the spike IF to the surface of the gray stone and thumped the button. There a sharp crack as a compressed slab of stone the size of my hand fell from the face of the cliff and slid down to the ledge. It felt heavy, more like lead than rock. Flipping it out into the lake, I turned up the power and went to work. Once I got the knack of the thing the job went fast. I found I could generate an almost spherical field that would detach a solid ball of compressed stone as big as my head. After I had struggled to roll a couple of these heavyweights over the edge -- and almost rolled down with them -- I worked the rock away at an angle, then cut out above this slope. The spheres would crunch free, bang down onto the slope and roll off the edge in a short arc, to splash noisily into the water below. Every once in a while I would stop, listen and look. I was still alone. The sun was close to the horizon before I had a neat little cave in the rock face that would just hold all my goods and myself. An animal's den that I longed to crawl into. Which I did, after a quick floating trip down to the lake for some water. The concentrates stomach knew that I had dined, though not well. As the first stars began to come out I planned the next step in my conquest of Dirt, or Earth, whichever the name was. , M y time voyage 'must have been more fatiguing than I bad thought. The next thing I realized was that the sky was black and a great orange fuU moon was sitting on the mountains. My bottom was chilled from contact with the cold rock and I was stiff from sleeping in a cramped sitting position. Come mighty changer of history, I groaned as my muscles creaked and my joints cracked. Get out and get to work. That was exactly what I had to do. Action would bring reaction. As long as I holed up in this den any planning I might do would be valueless since I had no facts to operate with. As yet I didn't even know if this was the right world, or  the right time -- or anything else. I had to get out and get cracking. Though there was one thing that I could do -- that I should have done first thing upon arrival. Mumbling curses at my own stupidity, I dug through the assorted junk I had brought with me and came up with the black box of the time-energy detector. I used a small light to illuminate it and my heart thudded down on top of my stomach when I saw that the needle was floating limply. Time was not being warped anywhere on this world. "Ha-ha you moron," I called out loudly, cheered bythe sound of the voice I liked the most, "This thing would work a lot better if you turned on the power." An oversight. Taking a deep breath, I threw the swhdi. Still nothing. The needle hung as limp as my deflated hopes. There was still a good chance that the time triflers were around and just happened to have their machine turned olT at the present moment. I hoped. To work. I secreted a few handy devices about my person and disengaged the grav-chute from the spaoesuit. It still had about a half charge in its power pack, which should me up and down the cliff a number of times. I slipped my arms through the straps, stepped off the le and touched the controls so that my fallchanged to an arc that pointed in the direction of the nearest road I had seen on the way down. Floating low over the trees, I checked landmarks and direction constantly. The outsize and gleamingly bedialed watch I always wear on my left wrist does a lot more things than ten the time. A touch of the right button illuminated the needle of the radio compass that was zeroed in on my home base. I drifted silently on. Moonlight reflected from a smooth surface that cut through the forest and I floated to the ground. Enough light filtered through the boughs for me not to need my flash as I made my way to the road, covering the last few meters with extreme caution. It was empty in both directions and the night was silent. I bent and examined the surface. It was made of some hard white substance, not metal or plastic, that appeared to have tiny grains of sand in it. Most uninteresting. Staying close to the edge I turned in the direction of the city I had glimpsed and started walking. Progress was slow but I was saving the power in the grav-chute. What happened next I can attribute only to carelessness, tempered with fatigue, and seasoned by my ignorance of this world. My mind wandered to Angelina and my friends in the Corps, all of whom existed only in my thoughts. They now had no more reality than my memory of characters I had read about in a noveK This was a very depressing idea and I brooded over it rather than rejecting it, so I was taken completely unaware by the sudden roar of' engines. At this moment I was rounding a turn in the road that had apparently been blasted through a small hill, since there were steep banks on each side. I should have considered being caught in this cut and have planned some means to avoid it. Now, while I considered the advisability of climbing the slope, of lifting up by grav-chute or using some other means of escape, bright lights shone around the turn ahead and the roar grew louder. In the end I only dropped to one side IF of the road, into the ditch that ran there, lay down and tried to think smalt, burying my face in my arm. My clothing was a neutral dark srav and might blend into th ground. Then the shuttering roar was upon me, next to me. Bright lights washed over me and were gone. I sat up and looked after the four strange vehicles that had passed. Details were not clear, since I saw them only as silhouettes against their own headlights, but they seemed very narrow, like monocycles, and eh had a little red light at the back. Their sound quieted, became mixed with a kind of honking like some animal sound and a shrill screeching. They were slowing. Tht must have seen me. Cracking, barking sounds echoed in the cut as the lights turned full circle and headed back in my direction. IV guy make the first mistake: one of my older mottos. I could attempt to escape, climbing or floating, but whoever these people were they might have weapons and I would make a peachy target. Even if I did escape I would only draw attention to this area. Better to see who and what they were first. Turning my back, so their lights wouldn't blind me, I waited patiently as the machines rumbled up and stopped in an arc around me, motors coupling and lights pointed at me. I dos my eyes to slits to shield them from the glare and listened to the shange sounds the riders niade gabbling to each other, not one word of which I found comprehensible. The chances were good that my clothing was on the exotic side as far as they were concerned. They must have reached some agreement because the eiine on one of the invisible conveyances clattered into silence and the driver stepped forward into the light. We exchued looks mutnak interest. He was a Kttte shfMter thanI but looked taller because of the bucket-shaped metal hekmet he was wearing. It was studded with rivets smd bom a tali spike on the top, very unattractive, as was the rest of his dress. Alt black plastic with shining knobs and clasps, brought to the acme of vulgarity by a stylized skull and crossbones on the chest that was picked out with fake gems of some kind. "Kryzl prtzblk?" he said in an insulting manner, allowing his jaw to protrude at the same time. I smiled to show that I was a friendly, good-natured fellow and responded in the warmest fashion. "You'll look uglier dead than alive, bowb, and that's what you. will be if you keep talkii to me that way." He looked puzzled at that and there was more incomprehensible chit-chat back and forth. The first driver was joined by one of the others, equally strangely garbed, who pointed excitedly to my arm. All of them looked at my wrist chronometer and there were shrill cries of interest that changed to anger when I put my hand behind my back. "Prubl!" the first thug said, stepping forward with his hand out. There was a sharp snik and a gleaming blade .appeared in his other fist. Now this was language I understood and I almost smiled at the sight. No honest men these, uiess the lav of the land decreed drawing weapons on strangers . and attempting to rob them. Now that I knew the rules I coiild play by them. "Prubl, prubl?" I cried, shrinking away and raising my hands in a gesture of despair. "Prubl drubir the evilly grin' ning lout shouted jumpingtowards me. "How's that for prubl?" I asked as I kicked up and caught him on the wrist with my toe. The knife sailed away into the darkness and he squeak with pain, the squeak turning into a vanishing gurgle as my pointed fingers stabbed him in the throat. By this time all the eyes must be On me so I triggered a miniflare into my hand from my sleeve holdput and dropped it to the ground, before me, closing my eyes just before it exploded. The glare burned hot on my lids and I saw little floating blobs of light when I opened them again. I fared a lot better than my attackers, who were all temporarily blinded, if their groans and complaints meant anything. None of them stopped me as I walked behind them and gave each in turn a sharp boot where it would do the most good. They all yiped with pain and ran in little circles until two collided by chance and began to beat each other unmercifully. While they were amusing themselves in this manner I examined their conveyances. Strange things with only two wheels and no sign of a gyro to stabilize them in motion. Each had a single seat on which the operator sat, straddling the thing to make it go. They looked very dangerous and I had no desire at all to learn to operate one. What was I to do with these creatures? I had never enjoyed silenced that way. If they were the criminals they appeared to be, there was a good chance they would not report the event to the authorities. Criminals! Of course, just the kind of informants I needed. One would be enough -- the first one preferably since I would have no compunction about being stern with him. He was moaning his way back to IF consciousness, but a whiff of sleepgas put him well under. Around his waist was a wide, metal-studded bdt that looked fairly strong. I fastened this to one of my belt clips and held him in friendly embrace under the arms. Then thumbed the grav-chute control. l#lifted, floating up and away from the noisy little group, arrowing back toward my lakeside retreat. Their companion's vanishing act would be singularly mysterious and even if they reported it to the authorities they would accomplish nothing. I was going to hole up with my dozing companion for a few days and learn the speech of this land. My accent was sure to be of the lowest, but that could be corrected later. My retreat gaped its welcoming mouth at me and I zipped in, dropping my limp burden ungracefully on the stone. By the time he came groaning back to awareness I was completely prepared and had all the equipment laid out. I pufled pleasurably on a cigar from my pocket humidor and said nothing while he went through a painful series of adjustments. There was plenty of lip-smacking before he opened his eyes and sat up, only to moan and clutch at his head. My sleep gas does have some painful after-effects. But memory of his knife aimed at me did much to steel me to his suffering. Then came the wild look around, the boggling at me and my equipment, the crafty look at the black opening of the entrance and the apparently accidental way he got his # beneath him. To spring out of the opening. To land smash bn his face as the cable that secur his ankle to the rock brought him down. "Now the games are over and we get to work," I told him, not unkindly, as I sat him back agaipst the wall and tightened the device about his wrist. I had rigged it while he slept and it was simple but effective. It contained a., blood pressure and skin resistance gauge with readouts On the control box that I held before me. A basic form of lie detector. It also contained a negative reinforcement circuit. I normally wouldn't use this technique on a human being -- it was usually reserved for training laboratory animals -- but this present human being was an exception. We were playing by his rules and this short. cut would save a lot of time. When he began shouting what I am sure were obnoxious insults and stOrtSd to tear at the box I pressed the reinforcement button. He shrieked and thrashed about enthusiastically as the electric current hit him. It wasn't really that bad; I had tried it on myself and set the level at slightly painful, the sort of pain one could easily endure biit would prefer not to. "Now we begin," I said, "but let me prepare myself first." He looked on in wide-eyed silence while I adjusted the metal pads of the memorygram on my temples and activated the circuit. "The key word is -- " I looked at my companion -- "ugly. Now we begin." There was a pile of simple objects at my side and I picked up the first one and held it out beforeme so he could see it. When he looked at it I said rock loudly, then was sUent. He was silent as well and after a moment I triggered the reinforcement circuit and he jumped at the sudden burst of pain and looked around wildly. "Rock," I repeated in a quiet, patient voice. It took him a while to get the idea, but he learned. There was a shock for cursing or saying anything irrelevant, and a double shock when he tried to lie about a word; my polygraph kept me informed about that. He had enough of this quite quickly and found it easier to supply the word I wanted. We quickly ran through my supply of objects and shifted to drawings and acted out motions. I accepted the phre I don't know -- .as long as it wasn't used too often -- and my store of words grew. Under the pressure of the microcurrents of the memorygram the new vocabulary was jammed into my cortex, but not without some painful side effects. When my head began to throb I took a painpill and went on with the word game. It didn't take long to file away enough words to switch to the second part of the learning process, grammar and structure. What is your namdt I thought to myself and added the code word ugly. "What . '... name?" I said aloud. A very unattractive, language indeed... "Slasher." "Me... name... Jim." "Lemme go, I ain't done nuttin to you." "Learn first... leave later. Now tell, what year?" "What year what?" "Wha year now, dum-dum?" difierent ways until rization of what I was asking finally penetrated the solid bone of his skull. I was beginning to sweat. "Oh, the year. It's nineteen-seventy-five. Yes, June the nineteenth, nineteen-seventy-five." Right on the target! Across all those centuries and millennia the time-helix had snapped me with precise accuracy. I made a mental note of thanks to Professor Coypu and the other vanished scientists and, since they lived on only in my memory, this was probably the only way to send the message. Much cheered by this information I got on with the language lesson. The memorygram clutched onto IF everything he said, organized it and jammed it deep into my bruised synapses. I stifled a groan and took another painpill. By sunrise I felt I had enough command of the language to add to it by myself and switched ofl the machine. My companion fell over, asleep, and clunk his head on the rock without waking. I let him sleep and disentangled us both from the electronic equipment. After the nightlong session I was tired myself but a stimtab took care of that. Hunger growled plaintively in my gut and I broke out some rations. Slasher awoke soon after and shared my breakfast, eating one of the bars only after he saw me break off the end and consume it myself. I belched with satisfaction and he echoed eructingly. He eyed me and my equipment for some time before he made a positive statement. "I know who you are." "So tell me." "You're from Mars, dat's what." "What's Mars?"' "The planet, you know." "Yeah, you might be right. It don't matter. You gonna do what I said, help me get some loot?" "I told you. I'm on parole. If I'm grabbed they'll throw the key away." "Don't let it bug you. Stick with me and they won't lay a finger on you. You'll be 'rolling in bucks. Do you have any of these bucks? I want to see what they look like.' "No!" he said, and his hand went to a bulge in a flap of material afflxed to his lower garments. By this time I could detect his simple lies without my equipment. Sleepgas quieted hiin and I worked a sort of hide envelope from his clothing that contain flimsy scraps of green paper, undoubtedly the bucks he. had referred to not having. To look at them was to laugh! The cheapest copying machine could turn out duplicates of these by the barrelful -- unless there were hidden means for authentication. To check I went over them wifli the most delicate equipment and found no trace of chemical, physical or radioactive identification. Amazing. The paper did ap pear to contain short threads of some kind of substance, but a duplicator would print replicas of these on the surface which would do fine. If only I had a duplicator. Or did I have a duplicator? Toward the end Professor Coypu and his helpers had been hanging every kind of equipment on me that they could. I rooted through the pile and, sure enough, there was a tiny duplicator. It was loaded with a block of extremely dense material that was expanded in some cellular fashion inside the machine to produce a sheet'of smooth white plastic on which the copies were made. After a number of adjustments I managed to reduce the quality of the .pltk uittd it was as rough and crumpled as the bucks. Now when I touched the copy button the machine produced a buck that appeared a duplicate of the priginal. The largest denomination, Slasher had was a ten buck note and I made a number of copies of this. Of course they all had the same serial number, but my experience has been that people never look very closely at the money they accept. next phase of my. penetration of the society on this, primitive planet, Earth. (Ihad discovered that Dirt was nofcbrrect.and had another meaning altogether.) I arranged about my person the, equipment I might n and left the remainder in the cave with the spacesuit. It would be here whenever I needed it. Slasher mumbled and snored when I floated him back across the lake and low over the trees towards the road. There was more trafflc on it now during the day, I could hear the vehicles rumbling by, so I once more dropped into the forest. Before waking Slasher I buried the gravchute with a radio transponder that would lead me back to it if need be. "What, what?" Slasher asked, ' sifting up as soon as the, antidote took effect. He looked uncomprehendingly around at the forest. "On your hoofs," I told him. "We gotta move out of here." He shambled after me, still half asleep, though he woke up rather quickly when I ruffled the wad of money under his nose. "How do these bocks look to you?" V 'Ujreat -- but I thought you didn't have any bread?" "I got enough food, but not enough money. So I made these. Are they okay?" "A-okay, I never seen better." He flipped through them with the appraising eye of the professional. "The only way you can tell is that the numbers are all the same. This is high-class green." He parted with them only reluctantly. A man of little imagination and ho compunction; just what I heieded. The sight of the bucks seemed to have driven all fear of me from him and he actively joined in planning to obtain even more money as we trudged along the road. "That outfit you're wearing, it's okay from a distance, like now, no one in the cars notices nuttin. But we gotta get you some threads. There's kind of a general .store foot of this hill. You wait away from the road while I go in and buy what you need. In fact maybe we get some wheels before that, my kind of little factory there with a parking lot. We'll see what they're selling." IF The factory proved to be a squat squarish building with a number of chimneys that were pufHng out smoke and pollution. An assortment of multicolored vehicles were arraied to one side and, following Slasher's example, I bent low as we moved quickly to the nearest one in the outside row. When he was sure we were unobserved my companion released a catch on a swollen purple thing, with what appeared to be a row of metal teeth at one end, and lifted a large lid I looked in and gasped at the excessively complex and primitive propulsion engine it contained. I was indeed in the past. In response to my questions, Slasher described it as he shorted some wires that seemed to control the ignition. "An intoinal combustion engine we call it. Almost new, should be three hundred horses there. Climb in and we'll make tracks out of here before anybody sees us." I made a mental note to inquire later about the theory behind this intoinal combustion. From earlier conversation I understood that horses were a rather large quadruped, so perhaps it was an animal-miniaturizing process to get a large number of them into the machine. But, primitive as the device looked, it certainly moved quickly enough. Slasher manipulated the controls and twisted the large wheel and we shot out onto the road and were away -- apparently without being detected. I was more than satisfied to let Slasher drive while I observed this world that I had arrived on. "Where is all the mon kept? You know, like the place where they lock it up." "You must mean the banks. Places with thick walls, big vaults, armed guards. They got at least one in every town." "And the bigger the town, the 'bigger the bank?" "You're catdiin on." "Then drive on to the nearest big town and find the biggest bank. I need plenty of bread. So we'll clean it out tonight." Slasher gaped in awe. "You can't mean it! They got all kinds of alarms and stuff." "I laugh at their stone-age gadgets. Just find the town, find the bank, then find some food and drink. Tonight I'll make you rich." V robbed a bank more easily, or cracked a simpler crib. The establishment I selected was in the center of a city with the improbable sounding name of Hartford. It was severely constructed of gray stone and all the openings were covered with thick metal bars -- but these defenses were negated by the fact that other buildings were joined to the bank on both sides. A rat rarety enters by the front door. It was early evening when we set out and Slasher was jittery and nervous, despite the large quantity of low qudity alcoholic beverage he had consumed. "We oughta wait until later," he complained. "Plenty of people are still in the street." "Just how I want it. They won't pay no attention to a couple more. Now park this heap around the corner where we planned and bring the bags." I carried my tools in a small case while Slasher followed me with the two large pieces of luggage we had purchased. The buildii ahead, on the left of the bank, was dark and the outer doer was surelylocked. No trouble. I had looked rd the lock earlier in the day and had determined that it presented no problem at all. The device in my left hand neutralized the alarm while I inserted the lockpick with my right. It opened so easily that Slasher did not even have to stop but went right on by me with the bags. Not a soul in the street paid us the slightest attention. A corridor led to some more locked doors, which I passed through with the same ease, until we reached an ofHce in the rear. "This room should share a wall with the bank. Now I'm gonna And out," I said. I whistl under my breath as I went to work. This was by no means my first bank robbery and I had no intention of making it my last. Of all the varied forms of crime, bank robbery is the most satisfactory to both the individual and to society. The individual of course gets a lot of mon -- that goes without saying -- and he benefits society by putting large amounts of cash back into circulation. The economy is stimulated, small businessmen prosper, people read about the crime with great interest, and the police have a chance to exercise their various Skills. Good for all. Though ( have heard foolish peorie complain that it hurts the bank. This is arrant nonsense. AH banks are insured, so they lose nothing, wfole the sums involved are mimMcule-m the overall operation of the insuring firm, where the mori that hatypen is that a microscopically smaller dividend will be paid at the end of the year. Little enough price to pay for all the good caused. It was as a benefactor of mankind, not a thief, that I moved the echo sounder along the wall. A large opening on the other side; the bank without a doubt. There were a number of cables and pipes in the wall, power and water I presumed, along with some that were obviously alarms. I marked their positions on the wall until the pattern was clear. One area was free of all obstructions. I outlined it. "We go in here," I said. "How we gonna break the wall IF down?" Slasher swung between elation and fear, wanting the money, afraid he would be caught. He was obviously a petty criminal and this was the biggest job he had ever been on. "Not break, dum-dum," I said, not unkindly, holding up the masser. "We just convince it to open before us." Of course he had no idea what I was talking about, but sight of the gleaming instrument seemed to reassure him. I had reversed the device so instead of increasing the binding energy of molecules it reduced their attraction close to zero. With slow precision I ran the point of the device completely over the chosen area of wall, then turned it off and stowed it away. "Nuttin happened," Slasher conmlained. "Sotnetin will now." I pushed the wall with my hand and the entire area I had prepared fell away with a soft whoosh, sliding down like so much fine dust. Which it had become. We looked through into the brightly lit interior of the bank. W E Were invisible from the street when we crawled through and crept along behind the high counter where the tellers normally sat. The builders had thoughtfully put their vault in the lower depths of the building and out of sight of the street, so once down the steps we could straighten up and go about our task in comfort. In rapid sequence I went through a pair of locked doors and a grUl made of thick steel bars. Their locks and alarms were too simple to discuss. The vault door itself looked more formidable yet proved the simplest of them all. "Look at dat," I called out enthusiastically. "There is a time lock here that opens automatically sometime tomorrow." "I knew it," Slasher wailed. "Let's get out before the alarms go off -- " As he ran for the stairs I tripped him and put one foot on his chest while I explained. "That is whdt they call good, dum-dum. All we have to do to open the thing is to advance the clock so it thinks it is the morning. "Impossible! It's sealed behind a couple of inches of steel !" Of course he had no way of knowing that an ordinary serviceman's manipulator is designed to work through casings of any kind. When I felt the field engage the cogs I rotated it and the dials whirled and his eyes bulged -- and the mechanism gave a satisfied click and the door swung open. "Bring da bags," I ordered, entering the vault. Whistling and humming gaily we packed the two bags solid with the tightly wrapped bundles of crisp notes. Slasher closed and sealed his firet, then mumbled impatiently at my slowness. "What's da rush?" I asked him, closing the case and assembling my tools. "You gotta take the time to do things the right way." As I put the last of my instruments away I noticed a needle jump, then hold steady. Interesting. I adjusted the Held strength then stood with it in my hand and looked around. Slasher was on the other side of the vault fumbling with some long metal boxes. "And what are you doing?" I asked in my warmest voice. "Takin a shufty to see if maybe there are some jewels in these safe deposit boxes." "Oh, that is what you are doing. You shoulda asked me:" "I cap do it myself." Surly and cocksure. "Yes, but I can do it without setting off the silent alarm to the police station." Cold and angry. "As you have just done." The blood drained from his face nicely, his hands shook so he dropped the box, then , he jumped about to bend and pick up the satchel of money. "Dum-dum yo-yo," I snarled and booted hard the inviting target present. "Now get that bag and get out of here and start the car. I'm right behind you." Slasher stumbled and scrambled up the stairs and I followed more cdmly after, taking a moment to close all the gates and grUls behind me in order to make things as difflcult as possible for the police. They would know the bank had been entered, but would not know it had been robbed until they rousted out some bank official and opened the vault. By which time we would be long gone. But as I came up the stairs I heard the squeal of tires and saw, through the front windows, a police car pulling up outside. They had certainly been fast, incredibly so for an ancient and primitive society like this one. Though perhaps that was why; certainly crime and crime detection must consume a large part of everyone's energies. However I wast no time philosophizing over their arrival, but pushed the bags ahead of me as I crawled behind the tellers' counter. As I was going through the hole to the other building I heard keys rattling in the outer door locks. Just right. As they came, in I would go out -- and this proved to be the case. When I looked out at the street I saw that all of the occupants of the police car had entered the bank while a small, but curious, crowd had gathered. With their backs towards me. I exited slowly and strode towards the corner. These neolithic fuzz were certainly fast on their feet. It must come from running down and catching their own game or something. Because I had not reached the corner before they popped out IF of the buOdii behind me, tooting painfully on shrill whistles. Th had ehtered the bank, seen the hole in the wall, then retraced my path. I took one quick look at them, all shining teeth, Uue uniforms, brass buttons and guns, and started running. Around the comer and into the car. cept that the street was empty and the car was gone. Slasher must have decided that he had earned enough for one evening and had driven away and left me for the law. VI I AM not suggesting that I may be made of sterner stuft than most men. Though I do feel that most men when presented with a situation like this -- # years in the past, a load of stolen money, the law in hot pursuit -- might give way to more than a little suggestion of panic. Only conditionings and the fact that I had been in this position far too often during my life -- kept me running smoothly while I considered what to do next. In a fev moments some heavyfooted minions of the law would come barreling around the corner while, I am sure, a radio alarm would be drawing in reinforcements to cut me off. Think fast, Jim. I did. Before I had taken five more paces nay entire plan for escape was outlined, detailed, set into type, printed and bound into a little booklet with page one open in my mind's before me. First -- get off the street. As I jumpedinto the next doorway I dropped the money and let a minigrenade drop into my Angers from my holdout. This fttted into the round opening of the keyhole very nicely and, with an impressive thud, it blew out the lock and part of the frame. My pursuers were not in sight yet so I Imitated until they appeared before pushing open the ruined door. Hoarse shouts and more whistle Mowing signaled that I had been observed. The door opened into a long corridor and . I was at the far end of it, hands raised in surrender when the guntoting law hesitatingly peeked in thropgh the opening. "Doht shToot, coppers," I shouted. "I surrender, a poor young man led to crime by evil companions." "Don't move or we'll hole you," they growled happily, entering warily with strong lights flashing into my eyes. I simply atood there, fillers groping for empty air, until the lights slid away and there was the double thud of falling bodies. There should have been since there was more sleepgas than air in that hallway. Being careful to breathe through the filter plugs in my nostrils I stripped the uniform from the snorii figure that was closest to my size; cursing the crude arrangement of fastenings, and put it on over my own clothes. Then I took the hand weapon ,he had been carrying and restored it to its holster, picked up my bags again and left, walking back up the street towards the bank. Frightened civUians peered out of doorways like animals from their burrows and at the corner I was met by another police car. As I had guessed a number of them were converging on this spot. "I have the loot," I called in to the solid figure behind the wheel: 'T'm takin it back to da bank. We have them cornered, da rats, a whole gang. Through that door. Go get them!" --  This last advice was unneeded because the vehicle had already left. The first police conveyance still stood where I had last seen it and, under the cow-like eyes of the spectators, I threw the bags into the front seat and climbed in. "Gowan beat it. Da show's over," I shouts as I groped among the unfamiliar instruments. There were an awful lot of them, enough to fly a spaceship with let ajone this squalid groundcar. Nothing' happened. The crowd milled back then milled forward. I was sweating slightly. Only then did I notice that the tiny keyhole was empty and remembered -- belatedly -- something Slasher had said about using keys to start these vehiclM; with. Sirens grew louder on all sides as I groped and fumbled through the odd selection of pockets and wallets on the uniform I wore. Keys! An entire ring of them. Chortling I pushed one after another into the keyhole until I realized that they were all too big to fit. Outside the fascinated crowd pressed close, greatly admiring my performance. "Back,-i)ack," I cried, and struggled the weapon from its holster to add menace to my words. E vidently it had been primed and was ready to be actuated and I inadvertently touched the wrong control. There was a terrible explosion, cloud of smoke and the weapon jumped from my hand. Some kind of projectile hurtled through the metal roof of the car and my thumb felt quite sore. At least the spectators left. Hurriedly. As th ran in all directions I saw that one of the police cars was coming up behind me and I felt that things were just not going as well as they should. There must be other keys. I groped again, throwing the miscellaneous items I discovered onto the seat beside me until there were no more. The other car stopped behind mine and the doors opened. Was that a glint of metal in that small hide case? It was. A pair of keys. One of them slid gently into IF the correct oriflce as the two minions of law and order walked up on both sides of the car. "What's going on here?" the nearest calledout as the key turned and there was the groaning of an engine and a metallic clashing. "Trouble!" I said as I fumbled with the metal levers. "Get outta there you!" he said, pulling out hisweapon. "Matter of life and death!",! shouted in a cracked voice as I stamped on one of the pedals as I had seen Slasher do. The car 'roared with power, the wheels squealed; it leaped to life, hurtling. In the wrong direction, backward. There was an intense crashing and clanging of glass and metal and the police vanished. I groped for the controls again. One of the fuzz appeared ahead, raising his weapon,lut jumped for his life as I found the right combination and the car roared at him. The road was clear and I was on my way. With the police in hot pursuit. Before ! reached the corner the other car started up and tore forward. Colored lights began rotating on top of it and its siren wailed. I drove with one hand and fumbled with my own controls -- spraying liquid on the windscreen then seeing it wiped away by moving arms, hearing loud music, warming my feet with a hot blast of air -- until I also had a screaming siren and, perhaps, a flashing light. We tore down the wide road in this manner and I felt that this was not the way to esfcape. The police knew their city and their vehicles and could radio ahead to cut me OB'. As soon as I realized this I pulled at the wh#el and turned into the next street. Since I was going a bit faster than I should the tires screeched and the car bounced up onto the sidewalk and caromed off a building before shuddering back into the roadway. My pursuers dropped behind with this maneuin this same dramatic manner, but were still after me when I barreled around the next corner. With these two right-aile turns I had succeeded in reversing my course and was now headed back toward the scene of the crime. ness but was really the safest thing to do. In a few moments, siren wailing and lights going, I was. safe in the middle of a pack of screaming flashing blue and white vehicles. It was lovely. They were turning and backing and getting in each other's way and I did what I could to increase the confusion. It was quite interesting with much cursing and the shaking of fists from windows and I would have stayed longer if reason had not prevailed. When the excitement reached its merriest I worked my way out and slid my vehicle around the corner. I was not followed. At a more reasonable pace, siren silenced and lights lowered, I trundled along the street lookii for a haven. I could never escape in the pdke car and I had no intention of doing so; what I needed was arat hole to crawl into. A luxurious one, I do not believe in doii things halfway. Not very much farther on I saw my goal, ablaze with lights and signs, glittering with ornament, a hotel of the plush and luxury class almost a stone's throw from the site of the crime. The last (dace where I would be looked for. I hoped. Certain chances have to be taken always. At the next turning I parked the car, stripped off the uniform, put a bundle of bills in my pocket, then trundled back toward' the hotel with my two bags. When the car was found they would probably think I had changed vehicles, an obvious ploy, and the area of search would widen. "Hey, you," I called out to the uniformed functionary who stood proudly before the entrance. "Carry these bags." My tone was insulting, my manners rude and he would have ignored me had I not spoken in another language and pressed a large denomination banknote into his hand. A quick glimpse of this produced smiles and a false obsequiousness as he grabbed for my bags, shuffling alter me as I entered the lobby. Glowing wood paneling, soft rugs, discreet lighting, lovely women in low-cut dresses accompanied by elderiy men with low-hung bellies -- this was the right place. There were a number of rais eyebrows at my rough clothing as I strode across to the reception desk. The individual behind it looked coldly down a loi patrician nose and I could see the ice already starting to form. I thawed it with a wad of money on the counter before him. "You have the pleasure of meetaire," I told him. "This is for you." The bills vanished even as I offered them. ""I have just come back from the boonies and I want the best room you got." "Something might be arranged, but only the Emperor Suite is available and that costs -- " ' ."Don't bodder me with money. Take this loot and let me know when you want more." "Yes, Well, perhaps something can be arraied. If you would be so kind as to sign your name here -- " "What's your name?" "Me? Why, it's Roscoe Amberdexter." "Ain't that a coincidence- that's my name too, but you can caU me sir. Must be a very common name around here. So you sign for me since we both got the same name." I beckoqed and he leaned forward and I spoke in a hoarse whisper. "I don't want no one to know I am here. Everyone's IF after my loot. Send up the manager if he wants more information." What he would get would be money which I was sure would do just as well. Buoyed on a wave of greenbacks the rest was clear sailing. I was ushered to my quarters and I bestowed largesse on my two bagcarriers for being so smart they hadn't dropped them. They opened and shut things, showed me all the controls. I had one of them call room service for much food and drink. They left in the best of humors, pockets bulging. I put the bag of money in the closet and opened the smaller case. And froze. The indicator needle on the temporal energy detector had moved and was pointing steadily toward the window and the world outside. M y hands wanted to shake but I would not let them as I took out the detector and placed it gently on the floor. The field strength was # and I made a rapid note of this. Then I dropped and sighted along the needle at the exact spot under the window where it pointed. Running over quickly, I marked a big X on this spot, then rushed back to check it. As I took the second sighting the needle began to drift and the meter dropped to zero. But I had them! Whoever they were, they were operating out of this era. They had used their apparatus once and they were sure to use it again. When they did I would be waiting for them. For the first time since I had been shipped back to this crude barbarian world I was warmed a small spark of hope. After a hearty dinner and a snowfall of fluttering banknotes I went to sleep. Not for long though. A two-hour zonk pill put me under in the deepest possible sleep. I awoke feeling much more human. I found a number of interesting bottles in the bar in the next room, some of them rather palatable, and I sat down with a Hlled glass in front of a glass-eyed instrument called a teevee. As I had guessed my accent in the local language left a lot to be desired and I wanted td listen to someone who spoke a better form of it. This was not easy to find. To begin with it was hard to teil. which were the educational channels and which were there for entertainment. I found what appeared to be a morality play in historical form -- all the men wore wide-brimmed hats and rode horses. But the total vocabulary used could not have been more than one hundred words and most of the characters were killed by shooting before I could discover what it was all about. Guns seemed to play an important role in most of the dramas I watched, though this was varied with sadism and assorted kinds of mayhem. AH this violence and hurtling from one place to another in various conveyances did not leave the people much time for intersexual activity; a brief kiss was the only manifestation of affection or libido that I saw. Most of the dramas were also difficult to follow since they kept being interrupted by brief playlets and illustrated lectures about the purchase of various consumer goods. By dawn I had had enough of this and my speech had improved only microscopically so I kicked in tho glass picture tube as fitting comment and went to wash myself in a pink room filled with museum pieces out of the history of plumbing. As soon as the shops-opened in the morning I had a number of hotel employees at work with a great deal of money and my purchases soon poured in. New clothing to fit my high station, with expensive luggage to carry it in. Plus a number of maps, a carefully made gadget called a magnetic compass and a book on the principles of navigation. It was simplicity itself to determine the exact direction to which the detector had pointed and to transfer this to a local map and get a fairly good approximation of the distance in the measurement units called mUes to the source of the time energy field. A long black line on the map gave me my direction, a slash across it to show distance -- and I had my target. The two lines crossed at udiat appeared to be a-major center of population, in fact the largest one on this map. It was called, quaintly. New York City. There was no indication where Old York City was and it did not matter. I knew where I had to go. L eaving the hotel was more like a royal abdication than a simple parting and there were many glad cries for nie to hurry back. As well there might be. A hired car whirled me out to the airport and ready hands rushed my luggage to the proper exit. Where a rude shock was awaiting me, since I had completely forgotten about the bank robbery. Others had not. "Open up da bags," a grim looking defender of law and order said. "Of course," I said, very cheerily. I noticed that all the paissengers were being subjected to this same search. "Might I ask what you are looking for?" "Money. Bank robbery," he muttered, poking through my possessions. "I'm afraid I never carry large sums," I said, holding the bag with my massed banknotes tight to my chest. "These are okay. Let's see that one," "Not in public if you please, officer. I am a high-plac government ofial and these papers are top secret." I quoted this word for word from the teevee. IF "In the room," he said, pointing. I was almost sorry I had kicked the thing in since it had been so educational. In the room he looked shocked when I opened a sleepgas grenade rather than the bag and he slumped nicely. There was a large metal locker against the wall filled with the numerous forms and papers so dear to the bureaiicratic mind and, by rearranging them, I managed to make room for my snoring companion. The longer he remained undiscovered the better. Unless there were unforeseen delays I would be in New York City befor# he regained consciousness -- a process that would have to be a natural one since there would be no known ' antidote for my gas. When I left the room another of the uniformed ofHcials was glowering at me, so I turned and called back through the still open door. "Thank you for your kind aid -- no trouble at all I assure you, no trouble at all." I closed the door and smiled at the officer as I passed. He raised a reluctant fingertip to the visor of his cap and turned away to grab at the luggage of an elderly passenger. I went on with my bag, not too surprised to notice the finest of pricklings of sweat upon my brow. The flight was brief, uninteresting, noisy and rather too bumpy, in a great fixed-wing craft that appeared to be powered by jets burning a liquid fuel. Though the smell of this fuel was everywhere -- and familiar -- I could not bring myself to believe that they were burning irreplaceable hydrocarbons. I had a moment of expectation when we disembarked, but there did not seem to be any alarm. Reaching the center of the city from the outlying airport was a painful ordeal of hurtling vehicles, shouts, noise of all kinds, and it was with a feeling of great relief that I finally fell through the door of a cool hotel room. But once reason was restored by the quiet, plus a couple of belts of the distilled organ-destroyer I was becoming attached to, I wasmore than ready for the next step. connoiter or attack? Sweet reason dictated a careful stalk of the time energy source to determine what I was up against -- who and what. I had half settled on this course and was berating myself mildly for even considering attack before the force of logic clanked through to its last link. I turned and pointed at myself in the mirror. "You are -- " I shook a disgusted finger at myself -- "what the cab driver called the other cab driver. A joick and wpise." I had only one advantage -- surprise. Any bit of reconnoitering might tip my hand and the time warriors would know that they were under investigation, perhaps attack. Sincthey had launched the time war they were surely prepared for possible retaliation. But how can guards stay alert for weeks and months, possibly year's? Once they knew I was around, at this time and place, all sorts of extra precautions would be taken. To prevent this I had to hit and hit hard -- even though I had no idea whom I was hitting. "Does it make a difference?" I asked, snapping open a grenade case. "It might be nice to satisfy my curiosity and find out who has attacked the Corps -- and why? But is it relevant or important? The answer is no." I glared across a small atomic fusion bomb at my red-eyed mirrored image and shook my head. "No, 'and no again. They must be destroyed, period. Now. Quickly." There was no other course open to me, so calmly and surely I fitted about my body the most potent weapons of destruction devised by millennia of weapons research; always a favorite of mankind. Normally I am no believer in the kill or be killed school of thought: affair are usually not that black and white. But now they were and I felt not the slightest guilt over my decision. This was undeclared war against all mankind of the future -- why else had the Special Corps been the first target of attack? Someone, some group, wanted control of everything, probably the most selfish and insane plan ever conceived, attd it did not really matter who or what they were. Deatii for them, before they killed everything of value. When I left the hotel I was a walking bomb, ah army of destruction. The black box of the time energy detector was in the attach case I carried, the indicators visible through holes I had cut in the lid. Somewhere out there was the enemy and when he moved I would be waiting. It was a short wait. An unseen burst of time energy was unleashed close by, if the action of the needle was any indication, and I was on the trail. Direction and distance, I worked out the vector as I plunged ahead, almost ignorant of the people and vehicles around me, but slowing and becoming more careful after a close miss by a lumbering truck. Now, a wide thoroughfare with green in the center of it, tall buildings of a uniformly depressing design, great slabs of metal and glass looming up in the polluted air. One very much like the other. Which one did I want? The needle swung again, quivering with the intensity of its reaction, turning as I walked, the meter rising to a distance reading right at the top of its scale. There. In that building, the copper and black one. Ini went, prepared for anything. Anything that is except what happened next. IF They were locking the doors behind me lining up and blocking them even as they did so. Everyone. The visitors to the building, the elevator starters -- even the man behind the cigar counter. Running, pressing forward, coming toward me with the cold light of hatred in their eyes. I had been discovered -- they must have detected my detector; they knew who I was. They were attacking first. Vlll At some time in our lives we are all touched by incipient paranoia and feel that everyone is against us. Now I was faced with the reality. For a single instant this basic fear possessed me -- then I shrugged it off and tried to win. But that slight hesitation had been enough. What I should have done was shoot, kill, fire, destroy, just as I had planned. But I had not planned to face all these people in this manner; therefore I could not win. Of course I did damage -- gas, bombs, a bit of violence -- but it wasn't enough. More and more hands tore at my clothing and there was no end to them. Nor were they gentle about it, coming at me with the same raw hatred I felt for them -- opposite sides of the coin, both seeing destruction in the other. I was pursued and run down and unconsciousness was almost a blessing when it dropped. Not that I was allowed this peace for long. Pain and a sharp smell burning in my nostrils drew me back to face unpleasant reality. A man, a large, tall man, standing and facing me, his features blurred in my unfocused eyes. Many hands seemed to hold me, squeezing and shaking me. Something moist was pulled across my face. It cleared away whatever had obscured my vision and I could see. See him as he saw me. Twice as tall as a normal man, so much bigger than I that I had to lean back to look up at him towering there. His skin a suffused red, his eyes angled and dark, many of his teeth pointed when he opened his mouth. "When are you from?" he asked, his voice a harsh drum, speaking the language we used in the Corps. I must have reacted to that because he smiled with victory, but not with warmth. "The Special Corps, it had to be. The one flare of energy before darkness. How many of you came? Where are the others?" "They -- will find you," I managed to say. A very minor success for my side weighed against the victories of the other. As yet they did not know that I was alone and I would stay alive until they discovered it. Which would not be long. I had been stripped efficiently -- all my devices had been removed. My defenses were gone, lliey would backtrack me to the hotel and Hnd out soon enough that there was nothing more to fear. "Who are you?" I asked, words my only weapon. He did not answer but instead raised both fists in a victorious gesture. The words came automatically to my lips. "You're mad." "Of course," he shouted exultantly and the hands holding me pulled and swayed at the same time. "That is our condition and though they killed us once for it they will not kill us again. This time we will be victorious because we will destroy our enemies even before they are born, doom to nonlife oblivion the ones who did it." I remembered something Coy pu had said about this Earth's being destroyed in the. far past. Had it been done to stop these people? Was it being undone now? His screamed words cut off the thought. "Take him. Torture him most profoundly for my pleasure and to weaken his will. Then suck all the knowledge from his brain. Everything must be discovered, every thing." As the hands tore me from the room I knew what I had to do. Wait. Get away from this man, away from the crowds, to the specialized skills of the torturers, to some needed privacy. The opportunity came as technicians in a white laboratory, beat at the people who held me and dragged me from them. They were as brutal to each other as they had been to me, a hierarchy of hatred. They must be mad, as my captor had said. What perversion of human history had brought these people upon the scene? There was no way to imagine. Again I waited. Calm in the knowledge that I had only a single opportunity and that I should not throw, it away. The door was closed. I was pressed back against a table and my ankles secured to it. Five men were in the room with me. Two had their backs turned, attention on their instruments, the others were pushing me down. I moved my jaw forward and bit down as hard as I could upon the last tooth. T his was my final weapon, the ultimate weapon, one that I had never used before. Normally I did not even carry it, considering the normal life-and-death dustups not worth this price of winning. The present situation was different. When I bit, the artificial tooth cracked and the drops of bitter liquid it contained ran down my throat. As the pain hit it was obliterated, engulfed even as it began by the nerve-deadening drug that enabled me to withstand the onslaught of the other ingredients. They were a devil's brew that the Corps' medics had worked out at IF my suggestion, .that had only tested before in smaller quantiti on test animals. Here were all the stimulants ever discovered, including the new class of synergators, the complex chemicals that enabled the human body to perform the incredible feats of hysterical strength that had been long known but impossible to duplicate. Time speeded up and the men hovering above me moved slowly. Seeing this I waited those fractions of a second more for the drugs to take complete effect before reaching out my hands. Though each of the heavyset men had his full weight on one of my arms it did not matter. There was no feeling of weight or even effort as I lifted them each clear off the floor at the same time and drove their skulls together before hurling them bodily at the third man at the foot of the table. All of them impacted, rolled, fell, their faces twisted in strange contortions of pain and fear. I sat up and seized the solid metal bands that bound my ankles and tore them loose. It appeared to be the easiest and most obvious thing to do. The act seemed to cause some damage to my fingers but I was aware of it only as a passing annoyance and of no real importance. The two remaining men in the room were still turningtoward mje as though the destruction of the other three had only taken a few moments. Which it surely had. Seeing them still unprepared, one with a weapon half raised, I threw myself at them, sparing a fist or a clutching hand for each, striking them down and hurling them toward the others into the writhing bundle of twisting bodies. They were five to my one and I could afford to show them not even the slightest mercy, even had I cared to. I struck with my feet now, since my hands were not so good, until there was no more motion in the heap. Only then could I permit the cold thoughts of logic to penetrate the hot berserker rage. Next? Escape. My clothes were rags and I tore them from me in strips. My torturers were dressed in white garments and I took the time to open all , the unfamiliar fastenings and dress myself in the least soiled of their clothing.' There was a ragged wound in my forehead -- I covered it with a neat dressing, then put wrappings about my hands. I was not interrupted and when I was ready I left the room and went hurriedly back down the hallway, retracing the course over which I had been so recently dragged. There was a buzz like a disturbed hive in the building and everyone I passed seemed too preoccupied to notice me -- bandages were a common sight -- even teroom where my weapons had been spread out on a large table to be examined. If it had been a time for smiting I would have smiled. G ently, without disturbing anyone, I reached over and actuated a rack of gas bombs, holding my breath as I groped for #he nose filters. It is a fast gas and. even those who had seen what I had done had no time for warnings before they fell. The air was hazy with the concentration of the gas when I picked up a gausspistol and threw open the great door to the next room. Your he called out, his massive red body standing even as the gas felled the others around him. He swayed and reached for me -- fighting the gas that should have dropped him instantly -- until I slammed the pistol into the side of his head. Yet his eyes, murderous with hatred, were on inS continuously as I bound him in the chair. Only when the door was sealed behind me did I take the time to look him in the face again and see that he was still conscious. "What kind of man are you?" The words came to my lips unbidden. "Who are you?" "I am He who will rule forever, the mind that never dies." There was such a power in his words that I felt myself drawn closer, swaying despite myself, the roundness of his eyes growing before me. I was hazy, the effects of my own drugs wearing off perhaps. I shook my head and blinked rapidly. But another part of me was still alert, still unimpressed by great power, great evil. "A long rule, but not a comfortable one." I smiled. "Unless you do something about that bad case of sunburn." It could not have been better spoken. This monster was utterly humorless and must have been used to nothing except slavish obedience. Just once he howled,, a; speechless animal souhd, and then there was speech enough, a torrent of babbled insanity that washed around me as I made preparations to end the time war. Mad? Of course he was, but with some kind of organized madness that perpetuated and grew and infected those around him. The body was artificial. I could see the scars and grafts now, aiid he spoke to me about it. A fabricated body, a transplanted, stolen body, a metal-framed monstrosity that told me all too much about the manner of mind that would choose to live in a casing like this. There were others like him -- but he was the best, he was alone -- it was hard to make sense of everything but I remembered what I could for future reference. And all the time I was taking off the ventilating grill and dusting my powders into the air system and making preparations to throw a largesized monkey wrench into this Satanic mill. He and his followers had been destroyed once in the fullness of time. He had told me that. In some unknown manner they had planned IF a second chance at the mastery of the universe -- but they were not to have it. I, Slippery Jim diGriz, single-minded freebooter of no fixed address, had been called upon for many big tasks before and I had always delivered. Now I was asked to save the world and if I must I must. "They could not have picked a better man' I said proudly as I Rooked in at the great workings of a time laboratory neatly peppered with sprawled bodies. The great green coiled spring of a time-helix glowed at me and I smiled back. "Bombs in the works and you for a ride," I called out happily as I made just those preparations. "Wipe out the machinery and leave the nuts here for the local authorities, though perhaps Big Red deserves a special treatment." He certainly did -- and I wondered what I was waiting for. I was waiting to do it in the heat of passion I imagine; no cold killer I, even of the coldest of killers. Though I would have to be this time. I steeled myself to this realization, thumbed the selector on the gausspistol to explosive charges and turned to the other room. Opportunity presented itself far more quickly than I had imagined. A great red form was on top of me, striking out, hitting me. I rolled with the blow, across the room to the wall, twisting and bringing up the gun. He was moving fast, tripping a switch and hurling himself at the end of the time-helix. Bullets move fast, too, and mine hissed out of the gausspistol and into his body, exploding there. And then he was gone. Pulled into time, forward or backward I did not know because the machinery was glowing and melting even as I ran. Would he be dead when he arrived at his destination? He had to be. Those were explosive charges. T hese thoughts occupy me as my health improves. Here in the private hospital they still wonder what made the wounds on my body. Money numbs their interest a good deal. I sleep well now and the great scarlet form of He no longer occupies my dreams. Is madness catching? Some kinds must be; I had it there for an instant and in the midst of parallel time there must be a world dominated by it. But there are better possible worlds. One where the Corps rules quietly with neat justice, where Angelina is. waiting for me. She will be there. My most prized possession is a black box with a man's mind inside. The mind of Professor Coypu, the master of time. If he built his time-helix once he should be able to build it again. When I am feeling very fit I am going to invite him into my brain and ask him to try.  Until Retief wrapped things up it was every Lumbagan against himself.   I the shops shuttered ,and dark. The yells of the demonstrators gathered before the entrance to the Grand Castle Complex of Lumbaga, three blocks to the east, where only a dull surf-roar here. Scattered brickbats and broken spears attested to the political activities of the day, but only a few candy wrappers and old newspapers blowing across the oily cobbles lent movement to the scene. Retief made his way unmolested along the narrow, crooked way; five minutes' brisk walk brought him to a rough-hewn door under a swinging signboard, adorHbd with a lumpy purplish free-form pierced by a pointed length of wood...Yellow light leaked from a small leaded-glass window beside the door . Retief took up his post under the spreading branches of a music tree. A gust stirred the leaves, evoking a rippling arpeggio of crystalline sound that mingled mournfully with the fluting of the night wind. A small wild creature resembling a disembodied blue eyeball with tiny bird feet hopped along a twig overhead, goggling at the Terran with an appearance of intentness heightened by the absence of an eyelid. A second freelance ocular appeared, peeping from antoit. ias, needle-shaped leaves; Nearer at hand, another variety of the local fauna -- this one a convoluted, three-inch ellipsoid bearing a remarkable resemblance to an oversized ear -- perched in a froomUe bush, pivoting slowly from left to right and back again as if tuning in on a faint sound in the distance. "You boys ought to get together with a nose and form a corporation," Retief murmured. "You'd be a dynamite vaudeville act." ' Both eyeballs whipped out of sight; the ear jerked and began to crawl hastily down the stem. A faint footfall sounded from the direction of a nearby alleymouth. Retief faded back against the bole of the ancient tree and eased his #mm gun into his hand. A furtive five-foot figure wrapped in an ankle-length djellaba emerged from the alley. "Ignarp," Retief called softly. The newcomer jumped and emitted a sharp yelp. "Galloping gastropods!" he hissed. "You nearly scared me out of my epidermis." He advanced another step to peer closely at Retief from three, large, watery eyes not unlike those concealed in the foliage above. "Are you the Terry I'm supposed to meet? Frankly, all you foreigners look alike to me." "An accusation I can't level against you, Ignarp," Retief said. IF "Didn't you have, four eyes and a purple hide the last time Isaw you?" "Yeah -- I stopped by my place for a shower and change." Ignarp gave his rattling sigh. "I didn't know it was going to be such a rough evening. What are you doing out in the. streets? The rallying cry of the mob is 'Get Terry .' " "It do seem the incidence of violence is escalating since the peace talks have been underway. Ai idea why?' "We got a few ideas -- but maybe it's not time to spill 'em." "Don't stall, Ignarp. Conditions have changed since this afternoon. My colleague, Mr. Magnan, has Imn kidnaped." "Wait a minute! You don't think I -- " "Nothing like that. I just hoped you might be able to tell me who the likeliest suspect is -- for a fee, of course." "Well -- that sounds like a gracious offer. But let's get out of sight. I've got the feeling unfriendly eyes are upon us. Come on, the Stake and Kidney's a 'discreet bistro, if not too clean. All the regulars will be out rioting, so we'll have a modicum of privacy." T he local rapped a complicated tattoo on the heavy door, shifting from one of his six large feet to another and casting worried glances along the avenue until the door rattled and swung inward with a lugubrious creak. An undersized cranium adorned with an odd assortment of sensory organs poked out at belt level to look the callers up and down. "For Creep's sake, Fudsot, let us in before the City Guard sees us," Ignarp hissed. "This Terry's got diplomatic immunity, but those dupes of the power structure would like nothing better, than to rearrange my internal integuments along what they consider more conventional lines." Grumbling, the landlord ushered them down three crooked steps into a long, low-ceilinged room smelling of fried zintx-patties and sour wine. He locked the door behiiri them and indicated a five-legged taUe in the comer. "Top conspicuous," Ignarp demurred. "How about the back room?" "That'll run you an extra five xots." "Five xots? You're as bad as the entrenched exploiters." "Except they'd charge you ten -- and then report you. Pay up or get out, you and your offworld chum. It's all the same to me." "Okay -- okay. The Goodies Redistribution Action Bunch will get around to you, you tool the establishment!" Ignarp extracted a small-mouthed purse from his voluminous robes and handed over a triangular coin of green plastic. Fudsot subjected it to close examination under what seemed to be an olfactory organ before using a six-inch key to unlock the small door at the back. "It's all yours, gents," he grunted. "For the next half-hour anyway. After that it'll cost you another five xots." "Bring us wine," Ignarp ordered as he dusted off a threelegged stool. "Sure. Four xots for a quarterzub o' the house brew. Six xots for bottled-in-bond. And I can give you a special deal on some aged Pepsi; I happened to get hold of a small consignment through a special contact down south. Five xots the flask, uncut." "Smuggler," Ignarp snapped. "Profiteer! Robber! We-'ll take the Pepsiin sealed bottles, mind you!" "Sure -- whatta you think I am, one o' these chiselers?" lence until the landlord had delivered the refreshments and withdrawn. "That's what we're up against," he said gloomily. "You'd think Fudsot would be a loyal supporter of the movement -- but no -- he's out for the fast xot." "What's this movement all about?" Retief asked. "I should think it was obvious," Ignarp said sharply. "Even a foreigner can see that the entire planet's in the grip of an elite corps of self-serving reactionaries." "Curious," Retief said, puffing a Chanel dope stick alight. "I had the impreion that anarchy was complete. In fact, that's why we Terries are here -- " "I know all about your so-called Peace Commission, Retief. You Terries and those main-chance Groaci are all spinning your wheels. Sure, we fight a lot -- we have ever since the dawn of recorded history, six years ago. And even before, if the old tribal legyids mean anything. And that's jake -- except lately it has taken a nasty turn. The old system of you break my back. I'll break yours, is falling apart." "Uh-huh." Retief sampled his drink. "And where does your Bunch come into the picture?" "We've formed a third force to combat the special privilege groups. Of course, we're just getting started -- only thirteen members at present -- but we won't stop until the gross inequities of the system have been corrected." "You intend to divide up the wealth, an equal share for everyone?" "You think we're out of our brainpans? We'll keep the loot for ourselves, naturally!" "That's your idea of an equitable arrangement?" Retief inquired mildly. "Of course not." Ignarp looked puzzled. "It's just simple, oldIF fashioned greed, the noblest of emotions." "Sounds like a highly realistic program," Retief said. "And what about the rest of the population?" "We're planning on selling them into slavery, naturally. And say -- maybe you Terries would like a slice of the action -- " "What makes you think so?" "Well -- aside from the fact that the mob is oi(t to get both of. us -- I've heard you get your jollies out of taking things away from the original owners and handing them over to new management. I could never figure out why, but we tion." "That's a fair assessment of our foreign aid policy, Ignarp. But sometimes it's a little difficult to determine who the deserving parties are." "Simple enough: Possession is prima facie evidence of moral leprosy; have-nots are pure in heart by definition."" "But if we hand the planet over to you fellows, then you'll be the haves -- " "That's different," Ignarp stated crisply. "Now, when can we expect the first consignment of guns, tanks, bombers, somis poisoned bodkins and the rest?" "Well, there may be a few administrative delays, Ignarp. Even a bureaucrat as dedicated to the spread of enlightenment as Ambassador Pouncetrifle may have some difficulty picturing a baker's dozen of malcontents as the authentic inheritors of the mantle of planetary dictatorship." "I had an idea you might try to stall," Ignarp said accusingly. "Fortunately we have a telling ideological point in reserve." He leaned toward Retief confidentially. "The situation," he stated solemnly, "has a very nasty -- are you ready? -- racial angle." "Tell me about it." don't sound very ex--X cited," Ignarp said in tones reflecting disappointment. "I heard all a fellow had to do was mention the word and you Terries automatically started writing checks." "A mild exaggeration. In apy event, the syndrome hardly applies to Lumbaga. You fellows don't have any races." "Hey, what kind of a crack is that?" "I've noticed," Retief said, "that the eyeballs and lower lips hopping around in the underbrush don't look much different from the ones you and your fellow citizens employ in your daily activities -- " "Now, hold it right there, Retief! I don't like the turn the conversation's taking -- " "In fact," Retief went on unperturbed, "It seems that the hir forms of Lumbagan life are all evolved from the lower forms # combination -- " "Don't come preaching your Godless evolutionary doctrines around here," Ignarp snapped. "Don't worry, I'm just making it up as I go along," Retief said soothiiy. "If my theory is correct, you, for example, represent the end product of a whole series of combinations -- " "Let's not get personal, Terry." "Just ging a few facts straight, Ignarp, no offense intended. Tell me, how old are you?" "That's none of your blasted business, Retief." , "I thought you wanted Terran backing in your scheme to take over the world." "Yeah, that's nght, but -- " "Then it's niy business." "Well -- I don't know exactly," Igiiarp muttered. "But the best theories give a figure around a age, of course. After all, by the time you go back a couple centuries, things get kind of vague." The Lumbagan looked embarassed, as attested by the purplish tinge mounting his wattles. "I think I understand," Retief said. "When a Lumbagan has a bad heart or a broken arm, he trades the injured member in on a new One. In time, he's comirietely replaced. Is that it?" "That covers most of it," Ignarp said hastOy. "Now, back to practical politics -- " "So in effect, a Lumbagan never dies. The question is, how does he get started?" "Gripes, Retief, is nothing sacred to you foreigners?" "My interest is purely scientific, Ignarp." "This racy conversation gets me all stirred up," the local said. "However, I guess it's all for the cause. You've got it right as it goes, but there are a few points you missed. Like the fact that the Singletons -- you know, the free-living eyeballs and pituitary glands and the like -- can only get together in bunches of up to ten. An ear might team up with a tentacle for mutual security, you know, and then later add on an esophagus -- strictly by instinct, natch. Not all thew teams work out, of course. Evolutionary dead ends, you might say. They break up again, no hard feelings, and maybe later the different parts join another accretion. In the end, quite a large mimber of workii accretions swinging through the jungle or creeping around in the underbrush, as happy as dams. So okay. A tenner Singleton can't add any more free units -- but what can happen is that two SinetOns can liidc up to form a Dubb. Got it?" "I'm trying, Ignarp. Pray continue." IF "Right. Now, that's not the end of the trail. Two weUcstabUshed Dubbs can get together and make up a Trip. Now, a Trip's a pretty complicated life form; with up to forty basic units to play around with, you can come up with some pretty successful combos. But Trips are a lot rarer than Dubbs, naturally." "Naturally. And I suppose two congenial Trips can join forces, to continue the process?" "Right. And when that happens, you get a Quad." Ignarp looked at Retief expectantly. "And two Qua can combine to make a still more complicated creature?" "Huh? Where'd you get an obscene idea like that!" Ignarp looked shocked, an effect achieved by rotating his eyeballs rapidly. "A Four-decker is the ultimate product of evolution -- a Lumbagan -- like me!" "I won't say it's clear, Ignarp, but it's not quite as opaque as it was. But you still haven't explained why you spend so much time disassembling each other -- or just how you decide who's against whom." IIIgle comes in. Now it's perfectly natural and wholesome when everybody is out to get everybody else; but. when discrimination rears its ugly head -- that's different. And even that wouldn't bother me," Ignarp added, "Except I happen to be a member of the persecuted minority." "A minority usually implies at least two people with a few characteristics in common," Retief pointed out. "Since every Liimbagan is unique -- " "Except my kind," Ignarp-said gloomily. "Somehow, due to a component nobody's isolated yet, we've got something nobody else has got." "A disabUity?" "Heck, no, Retief -- they'd forgive us that. We're vastly superior -- that's what gravels 'em! Just a hint of our special skill, and the witch-hunt is on." "And just what is this trait that gives you the advantage -- " "Aha! That's our Big Secret! You see -- " A sudden sound of disturbance came from in the outer room: a dull clatter, a yelp, a thump that rattled the cups on the table. Something crashed against the door hard enough to splinter wood. "I might have known," Ignarp cried, leaping up. "Sold out by the vested interests!" Retief came to his feet, looking around the small, dimly lit room. The only visible opening was a small ventilator grill. "So long, Reticf -- ril be in touch -- " With a rending crash, the door burst inward. The creature that bounded through the opening was seven feet tall, had yellowish skin blotched with black and purple. Three gaunt, bristly, knokneed #, terminating in broad rubbery webbed feet, made up two thirds of its height. Four left and two right arms of graduated leiigths sprang from the hunched shoulders, protected by a carapace resembling the shell of a turtle adorned with twisted spikes. Atop a sho thick, tendon-corded neck rested a pointed head given over largdy to a foot-wide, purple-lipped mouth crowded with needle-like fangs and situated below a pair of wide-set eyes the size of tennis balls. The eyes were a Mood-shot yellowish white excqt for the off-centered, metallic-Mack pupils. A powerful prehensile tail ending in a three-fingered hand waved a gnarled steelwood club aloft. The monstrosity charged with a bellow. Retief spun the table into its path, ducked a wild swing as the giant crashed into the obstacle with a plank-splintering impact. At the open door he turned; the intruder was threshing its way clear of the remains of the boards, was no sign. Retief had time only to notice that the grill was missing from the register before the monster tossed aside a shattered timber and leaped toward him. Retief stepped out and slammed the door, dropping the heavy bar in place as the armored alien crashed against it. the squat flgure of the landlord was dimly visible, scrambling for cover. Retief reached him in two strides, caught the back of his coarse-weave tunic, lifted him to tiptoes. "A slight double-cross, eh, Fudsot? Who paid you?" he inquired genially, as the door behind him resounded to the berserker's blows. "Let me go, Terry," the landlord screeched, "or I'll see to it you're broken down into surgical spares -- " "What was the idea? Were you out to get me? Or was it Ignarp you were after -- or both?" . "You know so much -- you tell me," Fudsot grunt. "But Ignarp fooled you," Retief said. "He separated into subassemblies of a convenient size and left by the ventilator, right?" "You Terries aren't supposed to know about that," Fudsot muttered, "A lousy fate, even' for a trouble-maker like Ignarp." "So that's the last of Ignarp, eh?" "As Ignarp, yeah. His sweetbreads and tonsils are back where they started ages ago -- free-living IF Free#)ies looking around for a partner to start up a new tenner." Fudsot wagged his head mournfully. "A sad end for a social reformer of his zeal," Retief said. "Still, there's much to be said for the carefree life of an adenoid. I'll be on my way now, Fudsot -- but before I go, just what was that that broke up our drinking party? I've gotten accustomed to a certain pleasing variety in the local citizenry, but that chap was in an entirely new category." "I heard rumors, but -- " Fudsot broke off. "But what?" "But it would be bad for my health to spread 'em. How's about getting him outa my back room now, Terry? I got to set the place to rights for the pre-dawn dust-up crowd." "No, thanks -- I can't use him." "You mean -- you're leaving that monstrosity on my hands?" "Certainly. Mind if I use the back entrance?" "No! That's where -- I mean, there isn't one," the landlord finished sullenly. "That's where they're waiting to make the pickup, eh? Thanks for the tip." R etief pushed through a greasy door behind the bar, crossed a kitchen reeking of stale fat, slipped out into a narrow alleyway decorated with negr lected garbage containeis. A soft rustling came from a dense patch of shadow. A small, spindle-lged figure swathed in a dark doak step forth. From the folds of the garment a gloved grasping member protruded, gripping a small power gun. "So -- success attends my efforts. The moose has taken the bait and sprung the trap -- " "Mouse, I think you mean, Wilth," Retief corrected. "What brings you out in the damp night air?" "Drat," the Groaci hissed. "Who informed you of my identity?" "Don't you remember? The Ambassador introduced us last week, at the Mother-in-Laws Day reception." "I refer to the treacher who betrayed my disguise -- " "Oh, he's the same feUow who's standing behind you now with a crater gun aimed at your dorsal suture." Wilth started violently, causing one of his government-issue eyeshields to clatter to the cobbles. "Undone!" he keened, as Retief stepped forward to relieve him of his weapon. "Unhappy Wilth! I rue the day the mound burst to expose me to the harsh external world!" "By the way, what did you have in mind doing with this?" Retief inquired, aiming the gun negligently at its former owner. "My instructions -- I assure you, my dear Retief, nothing personal was intended -- were to intimidate you with the firearm, thereby causing you to accompany me to a designated place for an uninhibited interview with a Most Highly Placed Person." Most highly placed in the Groaci hierarchy, I assume." "But of course. Do you imagine I'm in the habit of trepanning -- if that's the word -- fellow diplomats -- even Soft Ones -- for the convenience of members of lesser races?" "I shouldn't have asked. And what was to be the subject of this conference? Brain surgery?" "Do you furthur imagine I am privy to the machinations of vously behind him. "As a courtesy to a colleague, would you kindly instruct your toady to point his piece elsewhere -- " his faint voice faded. "Where is the creature?" "He couldn't make it," Retief said. "Liquor inventory, you know -- but the intention was there. Now -- " "Hoaxed!" Wilth whistled. "Hoodwinked by vile Terran duplicity!" "Don't take it so hard, Wilth. No harm done; it's always a rewarding experience to make the whatever persuasion. I'll go with you." "Y ou'll -- ah -- accompany me to the rendezvous as planned?" Wilth goggled all five eye stalks at Retief. "Why not? The evening is still young." Retief snapped open the butt of the power gun, removed the energy cell, handed the weapon back to the Groaci. "Why, this is quite decent of you, Retief," Wilth whispered breathlessly. "What a pity all Groaci-Terran relations can't be conducted in the same spirit of amity." "They are, Wilth, they are," Retief said soothingly. "Shall we go? waiting." through tortuously winding streets -- hardly more than tunnels threading through the monumental jumble of Lumbagan architecture. Wilth halted at a . small but massive door set in a deeply recessed niche, pounded stealthily on the dark panels. Weak grayish light leaked out as the door opened. A Groaci in the uniform of a Peace-keeper peered out. "Inside, Soft One," Wilth ordered curtly. Retief preceded his putative captor along a cramped passage papered in a pattern of puce and mustard lozenges to a highly varnished bile-green door that reflected the watery glow of the ceiling dimstrip. The guard rapped, thrust the-door wide IF and motioned Relief throug. A Groaci in jeweled eybields was seated behind a wide desk. He waved a negligent three-fingered hand at Relief, indicating a stool. "Any difficulties?" he inquired of his underling in Terran. "Your Excellency would be amazed at how easy it was," WQth replied glumly. "I was even astonished myself." "To not accept the legends of Terry invincibility," the senior alien snapped, switching to the Groacian tongue, "lest you predispose yourself to quail in the breech!" He turned three eyes on Retief while holding the glare of the other two on Wilth. "I," he announced then, "am Hivemaster Shlush. You, I believe, are the fellow Retief?" Retief acknowledged his identity with a nod and seated himself. "You," Shlush continued ominously, "are not unknown to me by repute." "I'm flattered." "Don't be." Shlush hissed. "Your name. Soft One, is a byword for the Terran duplicity and meddling that have plagued Groaci foreign policy since the first intimations of our manifest Galactic destiny." "That's a rather uncharitable description of Corps policy. Hivemaster," Retief commented. "By the way, what brings you here? I don't recall seeing your name on the last Foreign Office list." "Not to pry into matters of no concern to iens," Shlush hissed. "In fact," Retief went on, "I seem to recall that you were rather suddenly retired to civilian life after that flasco on Grabnark Four -- " Shlush jabbed a digit at Retief, all five eyes canted alertly in his guest's direction now. "Your role in the humbling of the great is not forgotten, Retief, but now the era of Terry domination comes to an end. No more will we Groaci suffer graciously the intolerable interposition of foreigners between ourselves and the objects of our desires." "In the meantime," Jtetief suggested mildly, "I take it you'd like to have a little talk." "Indeed yes," Shlush whispered. "How perceptive of you, Retief." "Not at all," the Terran declared. "Wilth told me." "To have babbled of state secrets, litter-mate of di'ones?" the Hivemaster hiss at his underling. "Who, I, Excellency? Why, to have but hinted he'd bt be on his metacarpals -- " "To commit another indiscretion and to find yourself trussed by the polices alongside the Soft One!" Shlush turned back to Retief. "But I'm slighting my hostly obligations," he said smoothly. "Would you care for a little something while we chat?" "Brandy, thanks," Retief said. "You." Shlush addressed the guard still hovering by the door. "To fetch brandy at once. Black Bacchus will do." "To congratulate your Excellency on your Excellency's taste," the Peace-keeper hissed unctiously. "But to wonder if your Excellency would amplify your Excellency's instructions to include data as to where I'm s;upposed to fetch it from." "The usual source, hive-fellow of defectives!" "To do as commanded. Exalted One -- but don't, you ink-thay the erry-tay ight-may recognize the abel-lay?" "To assume you have it-way enough to oar-pay it in the itchenJcay!"Shlush favored "Retief with the Groaci equivalent of a sour smile. "I've instructed the fellow decanter reserved for important guests," he translated. "I'm sensible of the honor," Retief said. "Now, what was it you wanted to tell me?"  "Tell you? My dear Tei, you fail to grasp the full implications of the situation. It is you who are going to tell me!" "What would you like to know first?" Retief said promptly. # OU may begin with full deX tails of secret Terran armament schemes, overall invasion strategy, D-day tactical plans and close-support logistical arrangements." "I can cover that in a very few words," Relief said. "There aren't any." "Pah! You expect me to believe that an organization of the to play it by ear?" "Play what by ear?" Retief inquired interestedly. "The take-over. What else?" "The take-over?" Retiet' tipped an inch of cigar ash onto Shlush's polished desk top. "What of?" "Of this plague-spot known as Lumbaga, naturally." "Who's taking it over?" Retief inquired interestedly. "We are -- that is to say, you are. I mean to say, of course, having gotten wind of the perfidious schemes laid by you treacherous Soft Ones under the cynical guise of pretended participation in bogus peace talks, we Groaci have naturally been compelled to take appropriate steps to safeguard the endangered lives, property and sacred self-determination of the indigenous autochthones." "Remarkable," Retief said. "And I suppose that to properly protect the Lumbagans, it will b necessary for Groac temporarily to garrison a few troops here. And perhaps take over a certain number of islands for official use. And possibly to requisition a modest percentage of the planetary production and manpower for the IF fight against foreign exploitation. And a reasonable tax levy to support a portion of the expense of this selfless action is to be expected." . "I see you have a grasp of the realities of interplanetary dogoodism," Shlush acknowledged. "Now, as beings-of-the-world, why not just give me a brief rundown on your own development plans? Don't bother going into detail; I have specialists on my staff who'll assist you later in dredging up the odd unremembered trifle from the depths of the subconscious. For now. Just limit your expoMtion to the high points." ."Vou're too shrewd for me, Hivemaster," Retief conceded. "Did you think up this scheme yourself" "Ah-ah," Shlush chided his prisoner. "No prying, Retief. Not that it matters, of course, inasmuch as you'll soon be occupying a shallow excavation under the dungeon floor -- but it's bad form tipping one's opponents off to the details of one's operations, particularly as I have no time to waste. Now -- " "On a tight schedule, eh? Tell me, Hivemaster, is Ambassador Jith in on the plan?" "Jith is a dependable civil servant of considerable seniority," Shlush said smoothly. "It was deemed unwise to burden him with excessive detail regarding operations outside the sphere of his immediate concerns." "Just who is your boss in this operation, Shlush?" "Ah-ah -- mustn't pry, Retief," the Groaci wagged an admonitory digit at the Terran. "Suflice it to say he's a most unusual chap, a virtual Super-Groaci of most uncompromising kidney, not the sort, as he himself declares, to stand idly by while Groac is cheated of her Lumbagan patrimony. You'll meet him soon enough." "Let me see," Retief mused aloud. "As I recall, it was a Terry tramp captain who first put Lumbaga on the star maps. He stayed long enough to peddlea few gross of glass beads and take on a cargo of salted glimp eggs. Oddly enough, his report made no mention of the natives' warlike tendencies." "Doubtless he fortuitously happened along between massacres," Shlush said tersely. "But -- " "The next time Lumbaga cropped up in an offlcial dispatch, ten years later, was on the occasion of a run-in between a Terry survey crew and a Groaci gunboat. It appears your people were well tablished here by then." "Yes, yes -- and naturally enough, they took appropriate action to discourage unauthorized tourism. Now -- " survey craft was the wrong way to gQ about it. I'm afraid," Retief said philosophically. "Our sociological teams couldn't pass up a challenge like that. They came swarming in -- with suitable escorts of Peace Enforcers, of course -- to ferret out the unhappy incidents in the collective Groaci childhood that were responsible for your aggressions and -- " "I well recall the incident -- an unexampled instance of Groaci restraint in the face of Terran provocation." " -- and found a planetwide riot in progress," Retief continued. "They also turned up the fact that your boys 'were running a rather dubious traffic in hearts, lungs, and a few other negotiable commodities -- " --  "Specimens destined for Groaci zoos," Shlush snapped. "Our Groacian interest in exotic wildlife is well known." " -- which raised certain questions among the coarse-minded. There was even a theory afoot that you were disassembling the natives, shipping them out as Freebies and putting them back together for use in the sand mines." "A baseless allegation. Besides, the practice was at once discontinue out of deference to the prejudices of the unenlightened." "A far-sighted move, in view of the number of guns lined up on you at the time. The Interplanetary Tribunal for the Curtailment of Hostilities moved in then, and the war for peace has raged ever since." "I am not in need of a toenail sketch of recent Furthuronian history," Shlush hissed. "The maniknown to me -- " The excited Hivemaster broke off as the door opened abruptly. "To forgive this intrusion. Exalted One," the underling who had gone to fetch brandy hissed. "But -- " "To better have an explanation of surpassing eloquence," Shlush screeched, "or to dangle inverted from a torture frame ere tiffintime!" "The best. Excellency," the unfortunate fellow whispered, advancing into the room, closely followed by a hulking Lumbagan with a single eye, three legs, an immense grin, and a large, primitive needle gun in his fist. "To shoot him down!" Shlush hissed in his native tongue to Wilth, who stood frozen against the wall. "To -- to -- have apparently forgotten to load my pieces" the latter whispered and let the impotent weapon fall with a clatter. "Which one of you aliens is the head Groaci around here?" the newcomer demanded. Wilth's eye-stalks tilted toward his chief. The latter scrooched back in his chair, eyeing the aimed pistol. "Ah -- why do you ask?" he inquired cautiously. IF "On account of there's a Big Shot that wants to see him," the Lumbagan stated, studying the four foreigners in turn. "Better hurry. I don't know what assorted innards are bringing in the open market, but it will be less if th're full of steel splinters." "Merely -- ah -- a social call, I assume?" Shlush said hopefully. "Assume anything you like -- only snap into it. The Big Boy don't like to be kept waiting." The caller glanced at the timepiece strapped to his lower left wrist. "Besides, I change sides in half an hour and I don't like unfinished business hanging around." "Well, I suppose one must observe the amenities," Shlush said with a certain lack of conviction, rising slowly. "It's all right, Shlush," Rctief spoke up. "It's noble of you to cover for me, but we can't fool this fellow. I'll go quietly." "Ha?' Trying to pull a fast one?" The Lumbagan pointed the gun at the Hivemaster's head and squinted his lone eye along the barrel. "I've got a good mind to plug you for that. But to heck with it. I got to make my own loads for this popper, so why waste one?" He motioned with the bulky weapon at Retief. "Let's go, big boy." He paused. "Hey, you aliens all look alike to me, but it seems like you got a little different look to you, somehow." He studied Retief, comparing him with Wilth and the guard with quick side-glances. "Two legs," he muttered; "One torso, one head -- ah! Got it! They got five eyes each, and you only got two, kind of sunk-in ones. How come?" "Birth defect," Retief said. "Oh, excuse mo all to heck, pal. No offense. Okay, pick 'em up. We got a brisk walk ahead and the streets are full of footpads." Ill T WO of Lumbaga's small pink moons were in the sky when Retief and his captor, after traversing a passage hollowed in the thick walls of the pile housing secret Groaci Headquarters, emerged into the street. "This seems to be iny night for meeting the local civic leaders," Retief commented as they turned west, toward the waterfront. "Whom are you taking me to?" "A high-pay customer on Groogroo island," his guide said shortly, swiveling his asymmetrical head from side to side so as to bring his siqgle eye to bear first on one side of the route ahead, then the other. "If anybody jumps us, it's every guy for hisself," he notified the Terrao. "You expecting to be attacked?" Retief inquired easily. The alien nodded. "Naturally," he said glumly. "Why should tonight be any different from any other time?" "I understand street battles are the Lumbagan national pastime," Retief commented. "You sound a little unenthusiastic." "Oh, a little rumble now and then, a friendly fight in a bar, a neighborly clash in the alley, sure. Tm as normal as the next guy. But the pace is getting me down. Frankly, Mr. -- what was that handle again?" "Retief." "I'm Gloot. Like I was saying, Retief -- between you and me. I'd as lief take a break -- a long break -- from the fray. I got enough lumps to last me, you know? And there's plenty others feel the same." "Then why do you go on squabbling?" -- "That's kind of hard to explain to a foreigner. I'm just sashaying along, minding my own business, and all of a sudden -- zop! The old flghting frenzy hits me -- you know what I mean?" "I'm striving to grasp it," Retief said. A ten-minute walk brought them to the water front. An odor of ripe seafood dnd rotting wood rose from a lateen-rigged junk wallowing as if half sunk at its sagging wharf. A bulky Lumbagan with the usual fandom placement of facial features stepped out of the shadows to bar Gloot's way as he boarded. "Hi, Snult," the latter called in guarded tones. "This here is Retief. You can put him on my tab." "Yeah?" Snult replied without detectable enthusiasm. He barked a command over his shoulder. Two lafge locals with exceptional tricep development stepped forward. "Dump this spy in the drink," Snult grunted, pointing to Retief. "And then hang Gloot to the yardarm for half an hour for reporting in late." He turned his back and sauntered off. The two Lumbagans advanced, reaching for Retief in a businesslike way. He leaned aside, caught the proffered arm of the nearer and gave it a half twist, causing its owner to spin around and bow from the waist, at which point an accurately placed foot propelled the unfortunate chap off the pier. The second enforcer lunged, met a chop to the neck, followed by a set of stiffened fingers to the midriff. As he doubled over, Retief turned him gently by the elblow and assisted him over the side; where his sjplash mingled with that of his partner. Ten feet away, Snult paused. "Quick work," he said over his shoulder. "But -- two splashes?" Gloot stepped to his departing chief, seized him by the back of the neck and unceremoniously pitched him into the water. "Three," he corrected and thrust a large, six-fingered hand at Retief. "The cruise is off to a good start. We've been needing a changeof administration around IF here. Come on, let's hoist anchor before a platoon of cops comes pelting down the dock to rescue you." He swaggered down the gangplank, bawling orders. T here were few questions from the crew, who quickly adjusted to the change in manage 'ment, assisted by a number of sharp blows from a belaying pin wielded by the new captain. In a matter of minutes the anciept vessel had cast off td was threading her way out across the garbagestrewn waters of the bay. "A shipment of oobark," Gloot advised his guest, pointing out a passing barge as they relaxed on . the high poopdeck at the stern, quaffing large mugs of native ale and admiring the view of the moonlit jungle isle past which they were sailing. "It comes from Delerion, another few islands to the west. "Potent stuff, too. A pinch of foof'va your hookah and you're cruising at fifty thousand feet without oxygen." "Dope traffic, eh? Is that legal?" "No law on the high seas," Gloot said. "And damn little on land. I guess you'd call the foof trade semi-legit. They pay taxes -- if the free-lance Custonis boys are sharp enough to collect 'em. And they place a few bribes here and there."  "You seem to know a lot about the opposition's movements," Retief commented. "I ought to -- I heard all about it last week when I was a yhogutherer." "I didn't know you Lumbagans changed islands as well as affiliations." "I was a prisoner of war down there. I managed to escape during the changing of the guard. By the way, keep a few sharp eyes out for a low-slung boat with a big carbon-arc light on deck. Interisland Police. Th're supposed to be up at the other end of the line now, but you never can tell." "I can see you've done your homework, Gloot." "Sure. I got the schedules down pat last time I was on the force." "Don't these rapid changes of allegiance become confusing?" Retief inquired. "I'd think you'd run the risk of accidentally shooting yourself under the inipression you were on the opposite side." "I guess you can get used to anything," Gloot said philosophically. "There's Groo-groo coming up on the starboard bow," Retief said. "Isn't it about time to start tacking in?" Gloot yawned. "Later, maybe," he said. "I decided maybe it's too much trouble trying to ransom you. I prefer life on the briny deep to floundering arouiid in the creepers -- " He was interrupted by a shout from the masthead; jumping up, he aimed a spyglass toward a dimly seen shape iidii closer across the dark water. "Oh-oh -- get set. That looks like -- yep, it's the patrol. Hey, Blump!" Gloot sprain to the companionway. "Hard aport. And keep it quiet." k sluggishly about, a dazzling, yard-wide shaft of smoky blue light laced across the water, etching the privateer's crew a chalky white against the velvet black of shadows. "Heave to, you bilge-scum," an amplified voice bellowed from the direction of the light, "before I put a solid shot into your waterline!"  "We're in trouble," Gloot rapped. "That's old Funge on the bullhorn; I'd know his voice anywhere, One of the best pirate captains around when he's working the other side of the street." "Do we strike, Cap'n?" a crewman called from amidships. "Remind me to keel-haul you when this is over!" Gloot roared. "Strike, nothing. Swing our sternchaser around and ruA it out over the port rail." He charged across the deck, which canted sharply as the sailors dragged the small cannon into position. "Load with canister -- double-charge. Get a flrepot up here. Hold her steady on a course of one-eight-oh and stand by to come about fast." He tum to Retkf who was standing nearby, observing the preparations for action. "Better get below, mister," he snapped. "This is no place for noncombatants!" "If you don't mind. I'll stick around on deck. And if I may make a suggestion -- it might be a good idea to steer for shore." "For shore? You must be hysterical with panic. Everybody knows Groo-groo's swarming with carnivores that are all stomach and teeth, with jiist enough legs to let 'em leap on their prey from forty feet away." "In that case, I hope you're a strong swimmer." "Don't worry, Retief, those revenue agents are lousy shots -- " Gloot's reassurances were interrupted by a flash, a boom and the whistling passage of a projectile that sailed high overhead to raise a column of water a hundred yards to starboard. "I sec what you mean," Retief said. "Nevertheless, I think you're about to lose your command." He pointed with his cigar at the water sluicing across the buckled planks of the deck. "We're sinking." Cries rose from the crew, who suddenly found themselves ankle deep in water. Gloot groaned. "I guess I took that last corner too fast -- she's opened her seams -- " A breaker rolled across the deck. If A crewman, swqt off his feet, went under with a despairii cry. As the vessd wallowed the wa ters surged, rubied back across the half-submerged plankii, swirling around Retiefs shins. The crewman was no longer in evidence; instead, a swarm of disassociated parts splashed in the brine, as the Lumbagan's formerly independent components resumed their free-swimming status, making instinctiydy for shore. "Wdl, so long, Retief," Gloot cried. "Maybe our various limbs and organs will meet up again in some future arrangement -- " he broke off. "Ah -- sorry. I forgot  your hookup is a one-time d. Tough lines, Retief. Take a last look around. Here we go -- " "Let's swim for it -- it's not fw." "Well, I gue you could do that if you want to prolong the process. As for me. I'd as soon get it over with -- " "And miss finding out if the superstitions are true? Come on, Gloot, last one ashore's an amputated!." R etief dived over the side. He .stroked hard against the suction created the sinking hulk, surfaced in time to see the tip of the mast descend slowly from sight amid vigorously boiling water strewn with flotsam. Mul' titudes of Singldpns, which had formerly constituted the privateer's comfdement, churned , the waves, helping instinctively for shore. A ragged cheer went up from the revenue cutter. Gloot bobbed up a few yards away. "She was my first command," he said sadly. "I guess maybe she was put tpgether a little too much like us Lumbagans." "A mdanchdly moment," Retief acknowledged. He shrugged out of his jacket, pulled off his shoes and thrust them into his side pockets and set off at an easy crawl, Gloot dog-paddlingbeside him. The evening was cool, but the water was . pleasantly warm, mildly saline. Groo-groo congealed from the darkness ahead, resolving itself into a cluster of rhubarb-shaped trees above a pale streak that widened into a curvi beadi. They rode the breakers in, grounding a coarsb coral sand, waded through tidal pools to shbre. Dark jungle loomed ahead, impenetrable in the dim light of the moons. Retief scanned the beach, noted a small keg half buried in the cOedontheend. "At least we won't want for basic supplies," he commented as he extricated the container. "You're about to sample Teriy booze, Gloot." "Not bad," the local coinmented five minutes later, after the puncheon had been broached with a lump of coral and the contents sampled. "It bums, but my stomadi kind of lik it, In fact -- " he paused to hiccup. "I like it all over. Actually, I just suddenly realized life is just a bowl of bloopberries, now that my vision has improved -- " "I see you're one of those affectionate drunks," Retief said as Gloot flung an arm about his shoulders. "Better'take it easy, Gloot. You may need all your faculties intact for the evening ahead." Gloot grabbed inaccurately at a small free-flying gland. "Kootchie-koo -- ain't it cute, Retief?" he asked as it landed on his head. "A most appealing organ," Retief agreed. "But I think you'd better lower your, voice. 'L . "What for? Somebody snoozing?" Gloot stood, weaving slightly, "Tell the little guys with the hammers to go away," he mumbled, groping at his scalp; there was a sudden flutter as the visitor departed hurriedly. Gloot sat down hard on the sand. "Tell 'em to turn off the sireens and the bright lights," he moaned, "and take the stewed gym shoes out of my mouth -- " "Congratulations, Gloot," Retief said. "I think you broke the Galactic speed record for hangovers." "Wha? Oh, it's you, Retief. Lucky you happened along. I just been set upon by a strong-arm mob and worked over with lead pipes. Which way'd they go?" "You were too much for them,'" Retief reassured his companion. "They fled in various directions." "Yah, the yellow-bellies," Gloot muttered. "Oh, my skull." "Where on the island does this Big Shot hang out?" Retief asked. "Beats me. I was to of been met on the beach." "Let's take a look around," Retief suggested, studying the looming woods above them. "You check that way -- " he point ed to the south -- "and I'll look up here." Gloot grunted assent and moved off. Retief followed the curve of the shore for a distance of a hundred yards before the. beach narrowed and was pinched out by a rocky ridge extending down from the forest-clad slope above. There were no tracks, no empty beer bottles, no signs of animate life. He returned to the starting point. Gloot was nowhere in sight. He followed the Lumbagan's bootprints as they wove unsteadily across the sand, then turned toward the nearest tongue of forest. The trail ended directly under a stout branch extending from the mass of foliage. Above, barely visible among the obscuring leaves, was the freshly cut end of a coarsely woven rope. IV R etief studied the ground. Other footprints were visible IF here, but Gloot's were not among them. The marks leading away from the spot he noted, were deeply impressed in the sand, as if the owners had been burdened by a heavy weight -- presumably that of the Lumbagan. Retief started off along the clearly marked spoor leading into the deep woods. The darkness here was almost total. Creatures of the night creaked, chirred and wailed in the treetops. An intermittent wind made groaning sounds among the boughs. Nearer at hand, something creaked faintly. Retief halted, faded back against the knobby-barked bole of a giant tree. A minute passed in silence. Just ahead of him a small figure emerged cautiously from the underbrush -- a curiously truncated Lumbagan, advancing in a stealthy crouch. Gripping a stout club in a cluster of fists, the native sneaked along, crouched, peering under bushes and behind trees as he came. Retief silently circled the sheltering trunk, stepped out behind the stranger and cleared his throat. With a thin yell the native sprang straight into the air. He struck the ground running, but with a quick grab Retief snared him by the garland of teeth circling his neck. "I'm looking for a friend of mine," Retief said in the native tpngue. "I don't suppose you've seen him," "Him monster like you?" the terrified captive squeaked, hooking a finger under his necklace to ease the strain. "Another type of monster entirely," Retief said; he gave a succinct description of his traveling companion. "Negative, Sahib. Tribe belong me not nab monster fitting that description. By the way, how about letting go ceremonial collar before I suffer embarassment of bite own head off." "You'd be more comfortable if you'd stop tugging," Retief pointed out. "Against instinct not try get away from monster," the native explained. "Curious. A moment ago I had The distinct impression you were trying to get closer to me." "Iron maiden on other foot now. You eat now -- or save for snack?" "I'll wait, thqnks. Is your village near here?" "Usually don't stop to chat with stranger," the captive muttered, "but in this case looks like best bet to increase longevity. Monster right, I citizen of modest town half mile up trail." "I'd like to pay it a visit. How about acting as guide?" "I got choice in matter?" "Certainly," Retief said. "You can either lead me there or take the consequences." "Most likely lead monster there and take consequences. Chief not like stranger poking around." "In that case you can introduce me. Retiefs the name. What's yours?" "Zoof -- but probably change to Mud, once chief get eyeful of humiliating circumstances attending surprise visit." "Actually, Zoof, it's not absolutely necessary that I lead you there by the neck if you'll promise not to run out on me." "Got funny feeling monster run faster than me anyway. Okay, it's deal. I lead you to village; when you get there, you look over menu, maybe pick choicer specimen." "It's a promise." Retief said. "Nice teeth, " he added as he disengaged his hand from the necklace. "Loc product?'" "Nope, fancy imported, guaranteed solid plastic." Zoof started through the dense woods, Retief close behind. "No catchurn real tooth these days. Life in woods going to hell in handcart. Monsters ruin hunting; lucky chief make deal with Five-eyes for steady supply grits and gravy." "The Five-eyes you refer to wouldn't by any chance be Groaci?" "Could be. Skinny-leg city slicker, same big like me, all time whisper, like offer deal on hot canoe." "That's Ambassador Jith to the life. But I wasn't aware his interests extended this far back into the brush." "Sure, small monster go everywhere, do everything. All time ride giant bird, make stink, noise, pile Up stone, while big moiter trample underbrush, rig net, hunt, eat -- " "What do these big monsters look like?" Retief inquired. "Take look in mirror sometime, see for self." "They're Terrans -- like me?" Zoof twisted his head to study Retief. "Nope, not exact same, maybe. Not so much eyes. Some got more. Some two time so big like you, tear head off, eat one bite -- " "Have you seen the monsters yourself?" "You bet; see you, see Five-eyes, hear plenty rumor HU in gaps in information." "Are there any Groaci at your village now?" "We find out," Zoof said. "Home town just ahead." He led the way another fifty feet and halted. "Well, what monster think of place?" R etief studied the gloomy forest around him, insofar as he could see it was in no way different from the previous half mile of woods. "It's unspoiled -- I'll say that for it," he commented. "Is this Main Street?" "Monster kidding? Is snazzy IF residential section, plenty tight zoning, you bet. Come on, we find chief and boys over at favorite hangout. Old Log." "A bar?" "Nope, just swell place root for grubs." "I take it the Grubs aren't a ball team?" "More like hors d'ouvre," Zoof corrected. He led the way through a dense stand of forest patriarchs, emerged in a small, open glade where half a dozen Lumbagans, differing wildly in detail, wandered apparently aimlessly, gazing at the ground. One pounced with a sharp cry, came up with a wriggling creature, which he thrust into a sack at his waist. "My grasp of Lumbagan zoology is somewhat hazy," Retief said. "How do these grubs fit into the general biological picture?" "Play essential role," Zoof replied. "Grub grow up be kidney, jawbone, kneecap, you name it." "So much for future generations. Still, it's no worse than eating eggs, I suppose." "Not eat 'em," Zoof corrected. "Collect, sell to skinny-leg monster, get plenty Colonel Sanders fried chicken and other exotic chow, you bet." The grub hunters had interrupted their search to stare inhospitably at Retief. "Hey, Chief," Zoof greeted his leader, "this monster name Retief, express desire meet jungle big shot. Retief, shake grasping member of Chief Boobooboo, son of Chief Booboo, son of Chief Boob." "Grandpa name Boo, not Boob," the chief corrted sternly. "Why you want me, monster? Zoof not look tender?" "Actually I was looking for a friend -- " "Hmm, neat switch. Usual custom eat enemy, but after all, why be prejudice? Eat chum too, get varied diet." Boobooboo looked appraisingly at Zoof. "As it happens. I've already eaten," Retief said. "The friend I'm looking for seems to have gotten involved with a rope." "Monster bark up wrong flagpole," the chief stated. "Unsophisticated aborigine unequal to technical challenge of make rope." "Any idea who might have snared him?" "Sure." "Possibly you'd confide in me." "Why?" "I don't suppose the simple desire to do a good turn would be sufficient motivation?" "Not that unsophisticated," Boobooboo said flatly. "Good time remember ancient folk wisdom embodied in old tribal saying: What's In It For Me?" "What about a firm promise of a year's supply of pizza pies?" "Not much nourishment in promise," the chief pointed out. "Got better idea -- " Boobooboo lowered his voice. "Know where big supply eatables located; you help collect, maybe I get bighearted and tell all." "I think I'd prefer a more definite commitment," Retief said. "Strike out the 'maybe' and we might be able to get together." "Sure; just stuck 'maybe' in so have something to concede." "I see I'm dealing with a pro," Retief acknowledged. "En passant, where is the food supply located?" "Half mile that direction." The chief pointed. "Enough chow for whole tribe from now to next St. Swithin's Day." "I take it you've actually seen the groceries for yourself?" "Sure, same time deliver." "I see. You plan to hijack the supplies you've been selling to the Groaci." "Hijack loaded word. Just say decided to share wealth with underprivileged. Monsters got wealth -- we got urtderprivilege." "At the present rate. Chief, I predict your supply of unsophistication won't last out the winter. But why do you need my help? You have enough troops to stage a raid on your own." "Monster not get big picture. Skinny-legs spoil-sport hide comestibles away inside magic cave, patrol perimeter with plenty fearsome monster, tear simple tribesman apart with two hands while hunt fleas with rest." , "And you think I can penetrate this fortress?" "Maybe not; but better you than me and boys; we just simple pastoral types; hunt, fish, steal, not go in for heavy work." "On the whole. Chief, the proposition doesn't sound overwhelmingly attractive." "I figure maybe you feel that way; so save snapper for end: you come here ask about missing buddy? Monster in luck; get economical combination deal. Kidnaped pal same place victuals. Get two for price of one." "I think," Retief said, "I've been outmanuvered." Retief, the chief, Zoof and the bulk of the truncated tribesmen, stood in the shelter of a giant mumble tree, the soft mutterings of its foliage covering the sound of their conversation. "Straight ahead, can't miss it," the chief was saying. "But watch snares; you get caught same way absent chum, deal off." "Understood, Chief. And you'll keep your people posted in position to create a diversion in the event I have to leave the vicinity in haste." "Correct. We stand by, catch any wandering grub come galloping past." IF "It's been a pleasure dealing with you. Chief. If you ever decide to give up the rural way of life, drop me a line. The Corps could use your talents instructing a course in creative naiVet#." "Thanks, Retief. Keep offer in mind in case present caper not pan out." The forest was silent as Retief made his way along the dimly marked trail, but for a stealthy rustling in the undergrowth which ceased when he halted,, began again when he went on. He had covered perhaps a hundred and fifty yards when he rounded an abrupt turn and was face to face with twelve feet of tusked nightmare. For a moment he stood unmoving, studying the monstrosity looming ten feet away. Its bleary, pinkish eyes, three in number, stared unwinkingly at him from a lumpy face equipped with tufted whiskers placed at random around a vast, loose-lipped mouth, and a scattering of gaping nostrils. Immense arms hung almost to the ground from its massive shoulders. Three bowed legs supported the weight of a powerfully muscled torso -- the big fellow's generous pedal extremities were housed in gigantic sneakers with round black reinforcing patches over the ankle-bones. A long tail curled up over one clavicle, ending in a seven-fingered hand with which the creature was exploring the interior of a large, pointed ear. Other hands gripped a naked two-edge sword at least nine feet in length. Retief took a hand-rolled cigar from an inside pocket, puffed it alight, blew out pale violet smoke. "Nice night," he said. The monster drew a deep breath. "Sorry," Retief said, "I didn't quite catch that remark." repeated. Retief shook his head. "You're still not getting through." "Ahhrrgh?" "You do it well," Retief said. "Exceptionally nice timbre. Real feeling." "You really like it?" the giant said in a surprisingly high-pitched voice. "Gee, thanks a lot." "I don't know when I've seen it done better. But is that all there is?" . "You mean it ain't enough?" "I'm perfectly satisfied," Retief assured his new acquaintance. "I just wanted to be sure there wasn't an encore." "I practiced it plenty," the oversized Lumbagan said. "I wouldn't of wanted to of done it wrong." "Certainly not. By the way, what does it mean?" "How do I know? Who tells me anything? I'm just old Smelch -- everybody pushes me around on account of I'm easygoing, you know?" "I think I met a relative of yours in town, Smelch. Unfortunately I had to rush away before we really had a chance to chat." "Yeah? Well, I heard a few of the boys was to of been took for a glom at the bright lights. But not me. No such luck." #'lOU don't happen to know A who's been down for a barefoot stroll on the shore do you, Smelch?" the Terran inquired casually. "A party with three-toed feet." "Three? Lessee." Smelch's tailmounted hand scratched at his mottled scalp with a sound reminiscent of a spade striking marl. "That'd be mtJre'n one and less than nine, right?" "You're narrowing the field," Retief said encouragingly. "If I just knew how many nine was. I'd be in business," Smelch muttered. "That ain't nothing like say, six, for example?" "Close, but no dope-stick. Skip that point, Smelch -- I didn't mean to get technical: Were you waiting for anything special when I came along?" "You bet: my relief." "When's he due?" "Well, lessee: I come out here a while back and been here for quite a time, so what does that leave? Say -- half an hour?" "More like a jiffy and a half, give or take a few shakes of a iamb's tail.What's up at the top of the trail?" "That's what nobody ain't supposed to know." "Why not?" "On account of it's like a secret, see?" "I'm beginning to get a glimmering. Who says it's a secret?" Smelch's fingernail abraded his chin with a loud sound. "That's supposed to be another secret." Smelch's features rearranged themselves in what might have been a puzzled frown. "What I can't figure is -- if it's a secret, how come you know about it?" "Word get around," Retief said reassuringly. "Okay if I go up and have a look?" "Maybe you ought to identify yourself first. Not that I don't trust you, but you know how it is." "Certainly. I'm Retief, Smelch." He shook the hand at the end of the tail, which returned the grip firmly. "Sorry about the routine, Retief, but these days a guy can't be too careful." "What about?" Smelch blinked all three eyes in rotation, a vertiginous effect. "I get it," he said, "that's what you call a joke, right? I'm nuts about jokes, only the trouble is usually nobody tells me about 'em in time to laugh." "It's a problem that often plagues ambassadors, Smelch. But don't worry; I'll be sure to tip IF you off in advance next time." "Gee, you're a all-right guy, Retief, even if you are kind of a runt and all, no offense." T he sound of heavy feet came from up-trail; a squat, five-foot figure lumbered into view, as solidly built as Smelch but less beautiful, his various arms, legs and ears having been arranged with a fine disregard of standard patterns. One of his five hands gripped a fifteen-foot harpoon; his four eyes, on six-inch stalks, goggled atop a flattened skull which gave the appearance of having been matured inside a hot water bottle. "About time, Flunt," Smelch greeted the newcomer. "You're a shake and a half late." "Spare me any carping criticisms," Flunt replied in a tone of long-suffering weariness. "I've just come from an interview with that bossy little -- " He broke off, looking Retief up and down. "Well, you might at least offer an introduction," he said sharply to Smelch, extending a hand to the diplomat. "I'm Flunt. Pardon my appearance -- " he indicated two uncombed fringes of purplish-blue filaments springing from just below his cheekbones -- "but I just washed my hide and I can't do a thing with it." "Not at all," Retief said ambiguously, giving Flunt's feet a quick glance. They were bare and remarkably human-looking. "My name's Retief." "Goodness, I hope I'm not interrupting anything." "Not at all. Smelch and I were just passing the time of night. Interesting little island, Flunt. See many strangers here?" "Gracious, I hope not. I'm supposed to do dreadful things to them." Flunt gave Retief a startled look. "Are you by any chance astranger?" "Are you kidding?" Smelch spoke up. "He's Retief, like I told you." "Just so you're sure. Little Sir Nasty-nice wouldn't like it a bit if any outsiders sneaked a peek at his precious whateveritis. Really, for this job one needs eyes in the back of one's head!" "Yeah," Smelch said. "Lucky you got 'em." "Flunt, do you know anyone with three-toed feet in these parts?" Retief asked. "Three-toed feet? Hmmm. They're a bit passe this season, of course -- but I think I've seen a few around. Why?" His voice lowered confidentially. "If you're interested in picking up half a dozen at a bargain price, I think I may be able to put you onto a good thing." "I might be," Retief said. "When could I meet the owners?" "Oh, I don't think you'd like that," Flunt said soberly. "No, I don't think you'd like that at all, at all. And neither would little Mr. Sticky-fingers, now that I reflect on it. Actually, I shouldn't have mentioned the matter. My blunder. Forget I said anything." "Gome on, Retief," Smelcltsaid loudly. "Me and you'll just take a little ankle up the trail. I'll point out the points of interest and like that." He gave the Terran an elaborate three-eyed wink. "Capital idea, Smelch." "Look here, Smelch," Flunt said nervously, "you're not going to go sneaking around you-knowwhere and getting you-know-who all upset about you-know-what?" "I do?" Smelch looked pleased. "Maybe you don't; it's been dunned into your head hourly all your life -- but then you've only been around for a week -- " Flunt turned to Retief. "I hate to sound finicky, Retief, but if this ummyday tries to ip-slay you into, well, anyplace you shouldn't ee-bay, well -- one has one's job to do," He fingered the barbed head of his harpoon meaningfully. "I can give you a definite tentative hypothetical assurance on that," Retief said crisply. "But don't hold me to it." "Well, in that case -- " Retief felt Flunt'S eyes on him as he and Smelch moved up the trail toward whatever lay above. V F or the first hundred yards, nothing untoward disturbed the silence of the forest at night -- nothing other than the normal quota of chirps, squeaks and scuttlings that attested to the activities of the abundant wildlife of the region. Then, without warning, a gigantic shape charged from the underbrush. Smelch, in the lead, late in swinging his broad-headed spear around, took the brunt of the charge solidly against his chest. His explosive grunt was almost drowned in the sound of the collision. The antagonists surged to and from, trampling shrubbery, shaking trees, grunting like beached walruses. Suddenly the stranger bent his knees, rammed his head into Smelch's midriff and rose, Smelch spread-eagled across his shoulders. He pivoted sharply and hurled Smelch into the undergrowth, snapping off a medium-sized tree in the process. The victor paused only long enough to beat out a rapid tattoo on his chest and wait until a brief coughing fit passed before whirling on Retief. The Terran sidestepped the dimly seen monster's first rush, which carried the latter well into the thicket beside the path. Smelch reappeared from the opposite side, shaking his head and muttering. The stranger came crashing back onto the scene only to be met by a two lefts and a right haymaker that halted him in his tracks. "Sorry about that, Retief," Smelch said contritely, as his anIF tagonist toppled like a felled oak. 'But the mug got my dander up. He shouldn't ought to of came out leading with his chin anyways." "A neat one-two-three," Retief commented, blowing a plume of smoke toward the fallen fighter. "Let's take a closer look." He parted the brush to look down at the casualty who lay sprawled on his back, out cold. The ten-foot figure was remarkably conservative for a Lumbagan, he thought: only two legs and arms, a single narrow head with close-set paired eyes, a long noe and mouth, an unimpressive chin. The feet, clearly outlined inside rawhide buskins, featured five toes each, matching the hands' ten fingers. "What's the matter?" Smelch said. "You know him?" "No, but he bears a certain resemblance to a colleague of mine." "Geeze, the poor guy. Well, beauty ain't everything. Anyways, here's your chance to pick up a set of dogs at a steal, if you know what I mean." He rammed an elbow toward Retiefs ribs, a comradely gesture capable of collapsing a lung had it landed. "I think I'll pass up the opportunity this time," Retief said. H e stepped forward to investigate a strand of barbed wire vaguely discernible in the gloom. It was one of three, he discovered, running parallel to the trail and firmly attached to stout posts. "JRetief, we better blow," Smelch said. "Like Flunt said, nobody but nobody don't want to poke his noses and stuff in too close around you-know-where." "Actually, I don't think I do," Retief corrected . his massive acquaintance. "Know where, I mean" "Good," Smelch said in a relieved tone. "You're safer that way." "Not afraid, are you?" "Yeah." Smelch nodded vigorously. "I hear they got ways of making a guy regret the day his left leg met up with his right." "Who says so?" "Everybody, Retief! All the boys been warned to stay clear, once they was outside -- " "You mean you've been inside?" "Sure." Smelch looked puzzled, an expression involving a rapid twitching of his ears. "How could I of not been?" "Flunt's been there, too?" "Natch. You don't figure 'the moomy-bird brung him, do you? That's a little joke, Retief. I know you know the moomy-bird didn't bring him." "How about this fellow?" Retief indicated the unconscious Lumbagan stretched at his feet. "He came from inside, too?" Smelch clucked sympathetically. "I guess they must of left out some o' your marbles, Retief. Where else would Zung of come from? In fact -- " he lowered his voice confidentially -- "he ain't never graduated, poor sucker." "Maybe you'd care to amplify that remark a little, Smelch." "Zung is one of the boys which they ain't been allowed out in the big, wonderful world like you and me." Smelch spread several hands expansively. "Except only maybe a few feet to clobber anybody that comes along. What I figure is -- " his voice took on a solemn note -- "him and the other ones, they ain't all there, you know? Rejects, like." "Rejects from what, Smelch?" "Shhh." Smelch looked around worriedly. "I don't like the trend of the conversation,which we're treading on shaky ground, especially this close to you-knowwhat." "No, but I think it's time I found out." "He -- you ain't planning on climbing the fence?" "Unless you know where the gate is." "Sure -- right up the trail about a hundred yards or maybe ten. I ain't too precise on fine detail." "Then I'll be off, Smelch. Give my regards to Flunt when you see him." "You're really going to sneak back into you-know-where and grab a peek at you-know-what? Boy oh boy, if you-know-who sees you -- " "I know. Thanks for clarifying matters. By the way, if you should run into a fellow with three legs who answers to the name of Gloot, I'd appreciate any help you could give him." "Sure. You let me know if we see him." "We?" "Heck, yes. You don't think I'm going in there alone, do you? And we better get moving. Zung's starting to twitch." up the path, Retief was again aware of the soft rustlings and snufflings he had noted on and off since his arrival on the island. Through a gap in the shrubbery he caught a fleeting glimpse of a stealthy figure which ducked out of sight as he paused. The gate -- a wide construction of aluminum panels and barbed wire -- blocked the trail a hundred feet above the point where they had encountered Zung. A greenshaded spotlight outlined it starkly against the black foliage. A padlock the size of an alarm clock dangled from a massive hasp. "Any more guards hidden out around the area?" Retief asked. "Naw -- with Flunt and me doing a tight security job down below and the other bum working in close, who needs it?" "An incisive point," Retief conceded. They walked boldly up to the gate. Smelch tried it, seemed IF surprised when it failed to swing open. "Looks like it's stuck," he commented, and ripped it from its hinges, lock and all, tossing the crumpled panels aside. Metal shrieked and crashed. "Nothing like direct action," Retief said admiringly. "But from this point on I suggest we observe a trifle more caution, just in case there's anyone up there whose suspicions might be aroused by the sound of a three-car collision this far from the nearest highway." "Say, pretty shrewd," Smelch said admiringly. "I always wanted to team up with a guy which he could figure the angles." The path continued a few yards beyond the former gate before debouching into a wide cleared strip adjoining a high board fence that extended for some distance in each direction. "Home sweet home," Smelch said nostalgically. "The old place sure has changed since I ventured out into the great world." "Has it?" "Sure. After all, that was a couple hours ago." "This is where you were born and raised, in other words." "Yeah -- inside the fence is where I spent my happy childhood, all four daysof it." "I'd like to see the old place." "Well, old Sneakyfeet Won't like it -- but to heck with him and his dumb rules. Who but a alumnus would want to look inside anyways? Come on, Retief." Smelch led the way to an inconspicuous gate which yielded to his efforts, not without a certain amount of splintering. Retief propped the door back in place and turned to regard an extensive array of ranked cages stacked in long aisles that led away in the moonlight to the far line of the fence. A dispirited yammering chorus of sound started up nearby, reminiscent of visiting day at a pet hospital. A vaguely zoo-like odor hung in the air. R etief approached the nearest row of cages. In the first, a creature resembling a rubber rutabega with spidery legs slumped dolefully against the bars. Adjacent, a pair of apprehensive-looking ankles huddled together for warmth. "Freebies," Smelch said. "Just in from the jungle. Little do the poor little fellers dream what a high-class destiny is in store for 'em." "What destiny is in store for them, Smelch?" "Right this way," the Lumbagan invited, indicating the next rank of cages. These were somewhat larger than those in the first section, each containing a creature giving the appearance of having been assembled from spare parts. Here a spindly leg drummed the fingers of a lone hand springing from where a foot might have been expected; there a bored-looking lower lip, flanked by a pair of generous ears, sprang directly from an unmistakable elbow. In the next echelon, the cages were still larger, occupied by specimens of a more sophisticated appearance. A well-developed paunch with a trio of staring brown eyes at the top squatted on four three-toed feet, watching the visitors incuriously. A remarkably human-looking head with a full beard swung from the roof of its prison by the muscular arm that was its sole appendage. "Uh, some of the boys look a little weird," Smelch said apologetically, "but in the.end they mostly turn out handsome devils, like me." "Someone seems to have gone to considerable trouble to set up this lonely-hearts farm," Retief commented. "In the natural state, I understand matches among Freebies take place at rare intervals. This looks like mass production. Any idea why, Smelch?" "Nope. I ain't one of them guys which he asts questions all the time, you know what I mean? I mean, why poke the old nostrils in and maybe get 'em stuffed full of lint, right?" "It's a philosophy without which bureaucracy as we know it would soon wither away," Retief conceded. "What was your job when you were here, Smelch?" "Well, lessee, there was eating. That took a lot of my time. Then there was sleeping. I liked that pretty good. Then -- lessee -- I guess that just about wraps it up. Why?" "You must have a strong union," Retief said. "Why were you here?" "Geeze, you know that's a question which a guy could wonder about it a long time if he wouldn't drop off to sleep first. Personally, I got a like theory that before we can attack the problem of transcendentalism, we got to examine the nature of knowledge and its limitations, making a appropriate distinction between noumena and phenomena. I figure by coordinating perceptions by means of rationally evolved concepts of understanding we can proceed to the analysis of experience and arrive at the categorical imperative, with its implicit concomitants. Get what I mean?" "I think possibly I've been underestimating you, Smelch. I didn't know you read Kant." "Can't read, you mean," Smelch corrected. "Nope, I never had the time for no idle pursuits, what with that heavy schedule I told you about." "Quite understandable, Smelch. By the way, Flunt mentioned you'd only been here a week. Where were you before that?" "Well, now we're getting into the area of the metaphysical, Retief, which when you examine maIF teriai phenomena by inductive processes you arrive at a philosophical materialism, not to exclude ontological and epistemological considerations, which in geieral could be assumed to denj metaphysics any validity in the context of Aristotelian logic. Or am I just spinning my wheels?" "Did you work that out for yourself, Smelch, or did somebody tip you off?" "Huh?" "Never mind. I don't think I'd grasp the full significance of the answer anyway." T hey passed the last of the cages, these occupied by a bewildering variety of Lumbagan life forms in a wide range of colors and shapes and displaying a remarkably diverse endowment of limbs, sensory ejuipment and other somatic elements. "They look vigorous enough," Retief commented as one hefty specimen gripped the bars and drooled at him. "But I get an impression they're not too bright." "Well, sure, first they got to go through the indoctrination center. You can't expect an agglomeration which last week it was grubbing roots in the woods to be a instant intellectual. That takes a couple days." "I see. Where do we go from here, Smelch?" "How about the cafeteria? I got a yen for some good old home cooking." "Let's save that until after I've met You-know-who," Retief suggested. "Mondays they usually got mudon-a-mortarboard," Smelch said nostalgically, testing the air through his multiple nostrils. "Also on Wednesday, Saturday, and all the other days. Lucky it's my favorite. But I guess you're right, Retief. We got to make our courtesy calls before we chow down. I guess old Sneakyfeet -- " Smelch paused. '"Hey, talking about sneaky feet, old You-knowwho has got three toes on each foot; I barged in on him once when he was just climbing out of a tub of hot sand. Wow, if language was skinning hooks. I'd of been flayed to the ribs in no time. That's when I seen 'em. His feet, I mean." He broke off as a faint, rhythmic sound became audible, swiftly growing louder. The running lights of a copter appeared above the treetops, winking in a complicated pattern. The machine sank out of sight beyond the fence. "What do you know, Retief -- that's old Whatzis himself," Smelch cried delightedly. "But now that it's time to make the introductions," he added with sudden doubt, "I kind of wonder if it's a good idea. If he's in a bad mood he could maybe interpret it as me not doing my job of keeping outsiders on the outside." "Let's hope he doesn't take a narrow niinded approach," Retief said encouragingly. He had reached the section of fence opposite the point where the copter had descended. He jumped, caught the top, pulled himself up in time to see a hurrying figure in a dark cloak and a pale headgear disappear into a small structure at the edge of the clearing. He pulled himself over and dropped to the ground. A moment later Smelch joined him. "That copter's been busy tonight," Retief said. "What's in the building?" "All kinds of neat stuff, like the cafeteria," Smelch said. "Did I mention they got mud-on-a-mortarboard?" "You did. Let's go take a closer look." They reached the door through which the heli's passenger had disappeared. It opened and they stepped into a brightly lit corridor. Light gleamed through a glass-paneled door at the far end. When they reached it, muffled sounds were audible from the room beyond. VI R etief took a small buttonshaped object from his pocket, pressed it to the door, put his ear to it. "... you still hesitate?" a suave voice said. "Possibly you are deterred by ethical considerations, a reluctance to betray those who have placed their trust in you. Dismiss the thought, fellow! What harm to honor if nobody blabs, eh?" Snorting and threshing sounds followed. "Ah -- Exalted One," a breathy Groaci voice whispered, "to offer a suggestion: the removal of the gag to facilitate compliance with instructions." "Um. Thank you, Chish. I was just about so to order. Guard!" Heavy footsteps sounded, followed by a ripping sound, a hoarse yell, a shuddering sigh. "Just one," Gloot's voice said yearningly. "Just one little ocular, right by the roots -- " ' Retief tried the doorknob, found it locked. He quickly extracted a small but complicated device from an inner pocket, applied it to the latch. There was a soft click. The door opened silently on a small dark room lined with coat hooks; beyond was a second room, clinically furnished in white. Gloot sat in a steel chair under a ceiling glare panel. He was strapped in position by heavy bands of wire mesh. An elaborate network of color-coded wires led from a cap-like device clamped to his head to a gray steel cabinet resembling a ground-car tune-up console. A Lumbagan, if anything larger and more baroque than Smelch, IF leaned against the wall. A uniformed Groaci stood by a door in the opposite wall. Before the captive stood a slight figure nattily attired in bile-green Bermuda shorts, an aloha shirt in clashing pinks and orange and violet Argyles. "Well, my old friend Nith, formerly of the Groaci Secret Police," Retief said softly to Smelch. "I wasn't aware his duties had brought him to these shores." "Now, fellow," Nith demanded of Gloot, "who sent you here?" "Nobody sent me; me and a chum came together." "Aha! This chum -- what power does he represent?" "He's a Groaci," Gloot said. "A Groaci?" "You heard me. Five-eyes. And a big wheel at that." "AmpliHed One," Chish hissed. "To begin to see the light! Lackaday! To have accidentally abducted a member of the personal Nith waggled his eyes playfully at Gloot. "In your report to your superior. I'm sure you won't find it necessary to mention this little contretemps, eh? Just look upon it as a slight misunderstanding, easUy mended -- " "Upthrust One," Lt. Chish interrupted, "The possibility that though this one's companion is of the noble Groacian stock, he himself might yet be in the pay of inferior races -- " "To be sure, Leftenant," Nith .said smoothly. "To have been about to raise precisely that issue." He faced Gloot. "Confess all, unfortunate dupe. You were the prisoner of the Groacian noblebeii, correct?" "Well -- technically he was my prisoner. But between you and me. Five-eyes, I was beginning to wonder who was in charge." "You dared impede the freedom of a High-Born One? You abducted him here against his will?" "Naw, it wasn't that way," Gloot said. "It was kind of a joint venture, like." "Joint venture? I fail to postulate ahy conceivable circumstance under which the interests of Groac and of an aboriginal would coincide." "Dough," Gloot said succinctly. "Mazoola. Bread. You know." "You shared an interest in gournaet cookery?" "Cripes, how'd you know that?" "Further association with us Groaci will accustom you to such casual displays of omniscience," Nith said smoothly. "But -- to have implied that it occupied the status of co-equal with its Groaci companion," Chish objected. "To have spoken allegorically, as is customary with artists! To have implied only that His Supernalness's shared interest in matters gastronomic. But ndw to wonder -- what brings Groaci brass to this dismal backwater, unannounced? The possibility that Supreme HQ is checking up on me. Tell me, fellow," he addressed Gloot, "what was the purpose of your Groaci master's visit to these remote environs?" "To see what was cooking, what else?" "Yes, yes, of course -- a clever cover story. But in addition to his culinary researches, what was the mission of the High-Born?" "If he had one he never told me," Gloot said. "To be expected that his Grandeur would not confide in an underling," Nith murmured. "Estimable Broodmaster, sir" Chish hissed. "To hypothesize: might not these same intruders be a veritable inspection team, dispatched by Ambassador Jith, who, jealous of his prerogatives, may have introduced them here by devious means, the better to check up on your operation unheralded?" "Exactly what I had deduced," Nith whispered and started for the door. "Certain reactionary elements have long desired my downfall. What better time than now to bring long schemesto naught by meddlesome probing, thereafter to cry me culpable? Forewarned, I'll see to certain matters regarding the voucher files; meantime, dispatch the prisoner instantly, lest he level feckless charges against my person!" N ith skittered through the door and was gone. Chish made a rude gesture at the closed door and turned to Gloot, drawing his pistol. "No violence, now," he cautioned the Lumbagan as he removed the cranial attachments of the veracitometer. "And remember to mention my name in glowing terms to yoir master. That's Chish: C-H-I-S-H, by a gross miscarriage of justice a mere Leftenant -- " He broke off as Retief stepped through the door, Smelch behind him. Uttering a faint cry, the officer whirled toward the door by which his superior had just departed. The Terran reached it first. "Guard! To me!" Chish keened, but as the Lumbagan behemoth lumbered into action, Smelch stepped behind him, gripped hands with himself, raised the resultant picnic-ham-sized aggregation of bone and muscle overhead and brought it down atop the fellow's cranium with a resounding thump, felling him in his tracks. "Poor old Vump, he always had a glass head,"  Smelch commented. "Nice one!" Gloot yelled. "But save old Nith for me!" "Unhand me, Terran," Chish whispered, trying unsuccessfully to dodge past Retief, "To have important business requiring my urgent attention -- " IF "You're confused, Leftenant," Relief said. "It was Broodmaster Nith who had the pressing appointment." "Indeed? To have never heard of him." "Too bad. I was hoping you could tell me whom he works for." "Never, vile Soft One!" "I'd avoid these long-term predictions if I were you, Chish. They have a tendency to unravel at the edges." Relief looked past the Groaci to Gloot, busily freeing himself from the last of his entanglements. "Don't break anything, Gloot; we wouldn't want to short the leftenants wiring." "Where'd the other one go?" Gloot demanded. "That's the one I want. I want to pluck those eyes one at a time, like picking ripe froom-fruit! How about it, you?" he glowered at Chish, who recoiled from the menacing figure towering over him. "Where's the other Terry?" "The -- the other Terry?" the Groaci hissed in agitation. "What other Terry?" "You know what other Terry!" Gloot roared. "Oh, that Terry," Chish said hurriedly. "Why, I do believe he's occupying the, er, guest suite, just across the passage." "Yeah?" Gloot looked baffled. "What's he doing there?" "He was, ah, assisting me in certain experimental activities," Chish replied. "Which reminds me. I'm overdue for my saline infusion, so if you'll kindly unhand me -- " Gloot pushed the Groaci away and went across the room and into the passage. He paused before the door across the hall and rapped. A faint, uncertain cry answered him. "Whattaya know?" he said. "He's in there." He tried the knob, then stepped back and kicked the stout panel; the plastic cracked. A second kick shattered the lock, and the door banged inward. A slight figure appeared in the opening, checked at the sight of the Lumbagan. "Hey," Gloot said weakly as Relief came up behind him. "That's not -- " "Well, there you are at last. Relief," First Secretary Magnan gasped. "Heavens, I thought you'd never turn up!" .Ilooking from Magnan to Relief. "Another Groaci with only two eyes, just like you. Relief -- and I just noticed that Terry you're holding onto is wearing three fakes, just like that other Terry, Chish. What gives?" "Duplicity on a vast scale," Relief said. "It's creeping in everywhere these days." "You labor under a misapprehension, dull-witted bucolic!" the Groaci began, subsiding in midword at a minatory tweak. "What's this person referring to?" Magnan inquired, favoring Gloot with a distasteful look. "Is he somehow under the impression -- " "He's a great admirer of the Groaci, Mr. Magnan. Naturally he leaped to the conclusion that you enjoyed that status, since you resemble me so closely." Retief gave Chisjh's collar an extra halftwist as the latter attempted to speak. "How come," Gloot asked .bluntly, "this Groaci's got the same shortage of eyes as you, Retief?" "Quite simple, Gloot. He's a relative; we're both members of the ape family." "Oh. But what's he doing here, palling around with these foreign ers?" "Simplicity itself," Magnan said. "I was seized by a brace of brigands and whisked here for some obscure purpose unconnected with normal diplomatic proced ures." The First Secretary looked severely at Chish. "Per' haps you he some explanation?" "I'm sure he does." Retief assisted the struggling Groaci to the chair and with Gloot's enthusiastic aid strapped him in position, fitting the cranial attachments in place atop his cartilaginous skull amid his eye-stalks, which drooped dejectedly. "Alas for lost opportunities," the officer mourned. "Had I but known of the imminen#e of my downfall, I might at least have had the pleasure of making plain to the abominaUe Nith my true assessment of his worth!" "Too bad, Chish. Maybe I'll find a chance to make it up to you," Retief said. "Now, I believe this modd has the automatic prevarication-suppressor. It will shoot a nice jolt through your trigeminal nerve if you accidentally stray into inaccuracy. Just set it at max, Gloot, to save time." "Base alien, thus to serve an innocent official harmlessly engaged in the performance of his duties -- " "Later, Chish. Who was the Big Shot?" "One Swarm-master Ussh, a most prestigious official. You'll rue the day -- " "Probably. Where's OiQega Station?" "I haven't the faintest -- yip -- the faintest intention of lying. I was about to say -- eek! On a desert isle some leagues from here, drat all Soft Ones!" "Which one?" Gloot demanded. "Rumboogy? Delerion?" "Sprook!" Chish whispered. "I could wish you no more dolorous fate than to set foot in its miasmic swamps!" "The needles say he's telling the truth," Gloot said. "As he sees it," Retief said. IF "Unfortunately, false information doesn't register as long as he believes it. I have a feeling his boss wasn't keeping him fully informed." "It is you, vile counterfeit -- " Chish started and broke off, listening. Faintly from afar a clattering sounded. "Ha!" The Groaci hissed in triumph. "In instants a squad of Peace-keepers will be upon you to put an end to your presumptuous invasion of sacred Groacian symbolic soil, as well as to your grotesque imposture!" "What's he talking about?" Gloot demanded. "I refer to the understandable aspirations of lesser races to the lofty status of Groacihood -- " "He also means the cops will be here any minute," Retief cut in. "I wonder if you'd be kind enough, Chish, as to direct us to the nearest exit." "A door -- at the end of the passage there. A passage leads thence to a hidden egress -- and good riddance to you!" "Well, we'll have to be saying good night now, Leftenant. When Vump comes to perhaps he'll unstrap you. You can while away the time by planning what you should have said to Nith when you had the chance." "True," Chish whispered. "Gone are my dreams of early advancement. But I may yet get a crack at that lousy civilian." "Let the thought sustain you in your hour of trial," Retief said. T en minutes later, after carefully skirting the spot where Flunt guarded the trail, Retief, Magnum and Gloot followed the tracks left in the soft moss of the trail by the fleeing Groaci, Nith. The path, while narrow, was high and dry, twisting and turning to avoid the boles of giant, moss-hung trees rising from the dark water, skirting the deeper pools. In a small, open patch of spongy ground the trail ended abruptly. There was no sign of Nith. "Well, whattaya know," Gloot commented, peering into the surrounding darkness. "Who would of thought the little Terry was that fast on his feet? He's gone and got clean away, so I guess we might as well get started back -- " "Listen," Retief said softly. A faint cry was repeated somewhere ahead. He started off at a run, picking a route from one root-clump to another. A hundred feet farther on he emerged into the open to witness a curious sight -- from a sturdy bough overhanging the path, Nith dangled by one leg in mid-air, supported in an inverted position by a length of stout rope. "Good of you to wait, Nith," Retief said. "An excellent spot for a confidential talk." "To cut me down at once and to enjoy the eternal gratitude of the Groacian state, renewable annually at a modest fee," the snared alien whispered. "Stumbled over one of your own trip-wires, eh?" Retief said sympathetically, "It's one of the hazards of the diplomatic way of life." "What is this talk of diplomatic wiles? As it happens, I am a simple scientist, here to observe the nest-building habits of the Lesser Tufted Adam's Apple -- " "Sorry, Nith, an ingenious cover, but blown. I'm afraid. We met a few years back when you were number two to General Fiss, the time he tried to take over Yale." "Tour Director Fiss and I were interested only in the excavation of artifacts of the Yalcan culture," Nith protested. "You Groaci have pioneered the science of instant archeology, true," Retief conceded, "but good form requires that you wait until the owners aren't using the bones any longer before you try to wire them together in a glass case. However, we have more immediate matters to discuss at the moment. Let's begin with where you were headed in such haste," "I find it singularly difficult to marshall my recollective faculties while suspended in this unseemly position," the Groaci hissed. "You'd find it even more difficult if the point of attachment were your third thoracic vertebra," Retief pointed out. "Long will this day live in infamy," Nith wailed. "Very well, Terry, I'll reveal my destination, but only under protest. As it happens, I maintain a modest retreat in the foothills above -- to it I retire on occasion to meditate. Now cut me down promptly and in my report I'll do my best to minimize the shabby role you played in this sorry contretemps." ## late for secrecy now," M. Retief said as Gloot and Magnan arrived panting, splashed with mud and festooned with algae. "Well," the First Secretary said as he spied the dangling alien, "at least he had the decency to attempt suicide -- though one might have known he'd bungle it." "You speak of suicide. Soft One?" Nith keened. "Such indeed is the fate of those who would invade the sacrosanct precincts of my bucolic hideaway." "Don't imagine for a moment that your threats intimidate me," Magnan replied loftily. "It's just that we happen to be leaving now anyway. Come, Retief, suitably padded -- discussed in adequate detail, that is -- my report of the disasters we've encountered up to this point will serve adequately to impress the Ambassador with my zeal." "An inspiring thought, Mr. IF Magnan. Just picture his expression when you tell him you've discovered there may be a plot afoot to take over Lumbaga and that you hurried back to let him know what, without wasting time flnding out when, where, why, and how." "But as I was about to say," Magnan continued quickly, "why dash off just when we're on the verge of achieving a coup of such stunning proportions?" "Now, just how would one go about finding this weekend cottage of yours," Retief queried Nith. "You imagine, presumptuous alien, that I would reveal details of my personal affairs to such as you?" "My mistake, Nith." Retief turned to Magnan and Gloot. "It seems we'll have to find it on our own. Shall we go, gentlemen?" "What -- and leave me here suspended, prey to any passing appetite, to say nothing of the risk of incipient apoplexy?" Nith shrilled in protest. "Yeah, that would be cruel," Gloot said and drew his knife. "I'll just slit the sucker's throat -- " "I capitulate," the Groaci hissed. "Proceed north-east by east to a lone foot tree, take a right, proceed another hundred paces upslope and you will confront my confidential lair. I appeal to your better natures to pry then no more, but to betake yourselves in haste to more congenial surroundings, there to report favorably on this concrete evidence of the importance of the reflective life in the philosophy of the benign Groaci." "I don't get it," Gloot said. "How come this Terry's all the time putting in a plug for you Groaci?" "Conscience," Magnan said crisply. "I suppose you may as well cut him loose now -- provided he promises not to go scuttling ahead and spoil our surprise." "I assure you I will scuttle in another direction entirely," Nith whispered as Gloot slashed the rope, allowing him to drop to the ground with a painful impact. He sprang up and disappeared along the backtrail. "I'm not sure that was the best move we've made all evening," Retief said. "But I suspect we'll know for sure very soon. Meanwhile, let's go take a lobk." point high above, shining down through the trees dotting the steeply rising slope. "Well, whattaya know," Gloot said. "I thought the little runt was lying, but here's his meditation parlor -- just like he said." "Why, the very idea," Magnan whispered. "Ambassador Jith never mentioned funding any R and R facilities in the hustings." They emerged onto a talus slope. From here they were able to make out the silhouette of a duster of towers rising from the crest of the peak. The lighted window went dark; a moment later a glow sprang up at another. "Apparently Nith doesn't do his thinking alone," Retief said. "If the place is full o' Terries," Gloot said, "what's supposed to Iceep 'em from blasting us into Freebies before you can say oops?" "Nothing much. Accordingly, I recommend extreme stealth from this point on." Twenty feet higher they encountered a night of narrow steps cut into the stone. Retief climbed over the handrail beaded with moisture in the damp air and led the way upward, Gloot and Magnan close behind him. At a landing another twenty feet higher the steps took a right-angled turn. The drop below was vertical now; the tops of trees rustled in the faint breeze. Far below a cluster of lanterns moved on the shore. Far across the water the lights of the capital floated on blackness. Gloot started to speak, then changed his mind. "Never mind," he muttered. "The more I know the less I like it. I'm even ber ginning, to get a funny feeling it was your idea and not mine to grab you from Groaci HQ." At the next landing, by leaning far out over the rail to look up, Retief was able to see a row of shuttered windows set in a squat, thick-walled structure of a bilious ochre color. The building appeared to consist of several wings, set at slightly different levels in accommodation to the contours of the rugged peak on which it was built. "Quite a layout -- " Gloot started and broke off as feet clacked above. A spindly figure in a flaring helmet and a spined hip cloak leaned over the railing of a terrace, peering down the barrel of a blast-rifle with five alertly canted oculars. "Hssst! To advance and give the password," a thin voice whispered sibilantly. "To contain yourself in patience, hive-mate of brood-foulers," Retief whispered sharply in Groaci. "To have had a brisk trot to report the failure of the incompetent Nith! To require a moment in which to respire!" He motioned to Gloot. "You go first," he whispered softly. "Pretend to be scared." "Pretend?" The Lumbagan choked. "I'm petrified! But what the heck, I don't aim to show the purple glimp-feather. Here goes." "The impropriety of your nattering -- and my curiosity as to whom you natter with!" the Groaci Peace-keeper hissed. "The prompt satisfaction of your curiosity," Retief whispered back, motioning Gloot past. He followed up the final IF flight of steps. As the Lumbagan reached the sentry's terrace the latter hissed and swung the gun to cover him. "The impropriety of taking hasty action' Retief said sharply. The guard swiveled a pair of eyes toward him and uttered a faint Groaci yelp of dismay. "A Soft One -- " he started, but his feeble cry was cut off abruptly by a smart rap to the side of the jaw delivered by Gloot. Retief deftly caught the victim's helmet as he collapsed. R etief quickly scouted the narrow gallery on which they now found themselves. From the platform at the end a complicated system of rods atop a tower was visible. "Curious," Magnan whispered. "Trideo antennae here? I wasn't aware Lumbaga boasted transmission facilities." "I have an idea the transmitter hasn't gone into full service yet," Retief said. Further discussion was interrupted by a faint whop-whopwhop, which grew swiftly louder. A copter swept low over the tree tops, made a sliding turn and came back to hover for a moment before settling gently to the roof of the building. The pilot -- a small, thin-legged individual wrapped in a black cloak and wearing a solar topi -- hopped down and disappeared into the shadows. Light shone a moment later from an opened hatch in the roof, into which the new arrival descended, closing the panel behind him. "Give me a leg up, Gloot," Retief said. "Anything for you, pal," the local said dubiously, grasping his own shin firmly. "But are you sure you can use it?" "On second thought, just a boost will do," Retief amended. Gloot offered linked hands as a stirrup; Retief went up the wall. The roof was deserted but for the silent copter squatting inside a yellowpainted circle. He leaned back to lend a hand to Magnan, then to Gloot. Together they crossed to the trapdoor. It opened soundlessly. Steep steps led down into deep gloom. At the bottom, Retief used his pocket flash quickly to check the room; it was empty but for stacked crates and cartons bearing stenciled markings. "Electronic gear," Retief said. "And surgical supplies." "Here's one labeled: Acme Theatrical Services," Magnan whispered. "Curious, I never suspected the Groaci had an interest in amateur dramatics." "I suspect they may have entered the field at a professional level," Retief said. The storeroom opened into a narrow, dimly lit passage. Faint murmurings sounded from behind a door. Retief went to it, put his ear against the panel... to have come within an ace of discovery!" hissed a breathy Groaci voice. "To make all haste now -- " "The inadvisability of rushing the cadence!" another voice replied. "To not louse up the triumphant culmination of my researches!" "Yes, yes, to get on with it. To have a tight schedule." A muted humming sound started up; a faint odor of ozone filtered through the closed door. "Sounds like an illegal transmitter," Retief said. "What's illegal about a transmitter?" Gloot demanded. "Let's find out." Retief turned the doorknob silently, eased the door open an inch. Two Groaci, one in bile-green shorts and orange and violet argyles, the other in a stained white laboratory smock and holding a clipboard, stood before a wide panel thickly set with dials, switches, oscilloscope tubes and blinking indicator lights. One side of the room was given over to stacked cages in which eyeballs, kidneys, adenoids and other forms of Lumbagan wildlife perched disconsolately on twigs or moped glumly in corners amid scattered straw. "... the completion of preliminary testing," the technician was whispering, "to be ready now to conduct field trials of limited range, after which, on to the final stage in the fulfillment of selfless Groaci objectives with all deliberate haste!" "To spare me the propaganda," the other snapped. "To have read the official handouts. To now tellingly demonstrate the effectiveness of the device without further procrastination." T he technician turned to the control panel, began setting dials in a complicated sequence, referring frequently to the clipboard. "Haste, haste," the other Groaci muttered. "To not procrastinate in the eye of the metaphorical cannon -- or is it the mouth of the needle?" He stepped forward suddenly and, before the other could intercept him, pushed the largest button on the panel. With a hoarse bellow Gloot plunged past Retief, slammed the door wide and bounded into the room. The two Groaci whirled, uttered shrill yelps and dived in opposite directions. The small creatures in their cages had gone into a flurry of activity, Retief noted peripherally, hurling themselves against the wire mesh as if frantic to come to grips with their neighbors. The momentum of Gloot's charge carried him full tilt against the button-studded console. Lights flashed; harsh buzzings sounded ending in a crackle of arcing electricity. Gloot stagIF gered back and sat down hard. The lab animals subsided as abruptly as they had leaped into motion. Retief jumped forward in time to nab the technician as he dithered, unsure which way to run. A door slammed at the back of the room. "Retief! What in the world -- " Magnan quavered, peering from the door. "Oh boy," Gloot muttered, fingering his head with all three hands as he sat weaving in the middle of the room. "Oh boy oh boy oh boy -- " "Would you care to amplify that remark?" Retief asked, holding the struggling Groaci. "I guess I blew it, huh?" the Lumbagan said blurrily. "I don't know what come over me, Retief. It was like Festival time and Spring Rites and the Fall Offensive all hit me at once. All of a sudden I was raring to go. Too bad that Terry got away. I would have liked to field-strip the little rascal Just to see what color Juice ran out of him." He eyed Retiefs prisoner wistfully. "The fit's passed -- but I still got kind of a lingering urge to pull that Terry apart, one skinny leg at a time." Far away, an alarm bell clanged harshly. "Now are you undone, abominable intruders," the Groaci hissed. "In moments my well-trained guards will fall upon you, your misshapen members to distribute over the immediate landscape." "Retief, 'we have to get out of here at once," Magnan yelped. "If a platoon of Peace-keepers should get their nasty little digits on us -- " "Yeah, let's blow," Gloot agreed. "Me and cops never did get on too good together." R etief released the Groaci, who at once darted for cover behind the nearest rank of cages. The hall was empty. A lone Peacekeeper appeared at the far end of the corridor and set up a weak shout as they dashed for the storeroom. Inside, Retief and Gloot paused long enough to stack a halfdozen crates against the door before ascending to the roof. Magnan was at the parapet, staring down into the darkness. "Trapped," he hissed. "Retief -- the grounds are swarming with them! And -- " he uttered a stifled exclamation. "Retief! Look!" In the gloom below Retief could discern the forms of several dozen armed troops in flaring helmets, polished greaves and spined hip. cloaks, moving efficiently out to surround the building. "Retief -- what does it mean? This laboratory, hidden in the wilds; that insane monster farm and that horrible little Nith -- and his obscure experiments -- and now Groaci troops secretly garrisoned in the boondock?" "It means we know enough now for a preliminary report. If you'll give Ambassador. Pouncetrifle the details of what we've learned -- " "But, Retief -- what have we learned?" "That the Groaci have worked out a method of controlling Lumbagan evolution, plus a method of selectively stimulating the natives' natural love of hostilities." "But -- whatever for?" "You'd better get going now, Mr. Magnan, I seem to hear the sounds of a posse pounding on the door down below." "Get going? You sp-speak as though I we-were expected to descend alone into that lion's den!" "Not descend -- ascend. The copter is a standard Groaci export model -- " "Yes, but -- but I don't have my driver's license with me!" A loud thumping sounded from below as the stacked cases toppled. Gloot slammed the trapdoor and stood on it. "Better hurry, Mr. Magnan," Retief said. "Head due west and stay clear of the peaks." Magnan made vague sounds of protest, but scrambled awkwardly into the copter. He pressed the starter; the rotors turned, spun quickly up to speed. "It seems a trifle irresponsible, dashing off and leaving you here alone, Retief," he called and winced as thunderous pounding shook the trapdoor. "I hope them Terries don't take a notion to send a few rounds of explosive slugs through this hatch," Gloot said, struggling for balance as the door heaved under him. " -- but as you point out, duty calls," Magnan added quickly and, with a hasty wave, lifted off into the night. as the sound of the machine faded. "You said Ambassador Pouncetrifle? I thought he was the head Terry." "I think it's time for me to clear up a slight misapprehension you've bwn laboring under, Gloot," Retief said. "Those aren't actually Terries down there -- they're Groaci." "Huh? But they look just like what's-his-face, Nith, only bigger!" "Correct. That's because Nith is a Groaci, too." "But if he's a Groaci -- then what about whozis -- the one that just run out on us?" "Mr. Magnan," Retief confided, "is actually a Terry." "Aha! I should of known. Talk about masters of disguise. Pretty slick, the way you got rid of him -- " Gloot paused reflectively. "But -- if they're Groaci down there, how come we don't just open up and shake hands all around?" "They think I'm a Terry." "Oh, boy, that complicates things. How come you don't tell IF 'em who you really are and -- " 'Undercover operation." "Oh, I get it. Or do I?" Gloot said vaguely. "But I guess I can worry about that later, after we get out of this mess. What nifty trick are you going to pull out of the hat now? Frankly, if I didn't have lots of confidence in you, Retief, I'd be getting worried about now." "I think you may as well go ahead and worry, Gloot," Retief said. "On this occasion I'm fresh out of hats." "You mean -- " The hatch gave a tremendous lurch, sending the Lumbagan staggering. It flew open and a Groaci warrior bounded forth, power gun aimed, his fellows crowding out behind him. "He means, nocuous encroacher, that now indeed is your fate upon you!" The white-jacketed Groaci technician moved forward. "How about it, Retief," Gloot said from the corner of his mouth. "We could jump 'em -- but what I say is, why give 'em the fun of blowing us into sausage?" "Wait!" a piercing voice called from the rear. The Groaci soldiery fell back, came to rigid attention. In the sudden silence the technician ducked his head servilely, stepping aside as an impressive figure wrapped in a black cloak with a twist of gold braid adorning the stiff collar strode forward. Typically Groacian except for his six-foot height. the newcomer stared Retief up and down, ignoring G#ot. "So, impetuous Terry," he rasped in a voice surprisingly vigorous for a Groaci. "We meet at last." "Swarmmaster Ussh, I presume?" Retief said. "Your Ultimateness has led us an interesting chase.'' "And one pursued to your indescribable sorrow," Ussh grated. tal monster farm," Retief said. "The woods seem full of unsuccessful experiments in forced evolution." "As I suspected, the true implications of what you've seen has been lost on your limited imagination. Soon, however -- " "I think I got it. Manipulating Lumbagans at random is all very well, but it would be a bit difficult to stage anything more organized than a free-for-all unless you could elicit uniform responses. Ergo -- uniform puppets." "You've correctly gauged the more pedestrian portions of my plot, Terran dupe! But you've failed utterly to grasp the incredible scope of my true greatness! While you dashed hither and thither, assembling your trifling clues, my giant intellect has been coolly completing the flnal detail work. And now -- tonight -- the New Age dawns, ushered in by the successor to all previous life forms, namely myself!" "What is this guy, nuts or something?" Gloot muttered. "If he's so busy why's he standing around making speeches?" "He's trying to find out how much we know," Retief said. Swarmmaster Ussh waved a negligent hand. "Petty minds can but ascribe petty motives. What you may or may not know is a matter of supreme indifference -- and I include any fragmentary facts in the possession of your flown accomplice, for whose absence from this group certain incompetents will suffer. In fact, I freely confide in you: tonight I assume planetary rule. Tomorrow I issuemyultimatum to the Galaxy. Next week -- but contain yourself in patience. You yourself -- in chains, of course -- shall serve as my emissary to carry the terms to yourformer masters! As for the Untouchable, you may retain him as your personal menial." "I assumed you had a reason for not shooting us immediately. "I do nothing without a supremely practical motive." Ussh stated flatly. "And now -- will you go to your durance peacefully or will it be necessary for me to have you dragged by the heels, a most undignifi progress for a future Slave Ambassador." "I think a period of quiet contemplation may be just what we need at this point," Retief said. T he dungeon into which Retief and Gloot were conducted cut deep into the rock beneath the secret Groaci lab, was a damp chamber, six feet by eight, without lights, furniture or other amenities. The narrow portal through which they had entered was barred by a thick door of solid iron. The ceiling was a seamless surface of rough-hewn stone, as were the walls and floor. "At least we got a drain hole," Gloot commented after they had conducted an examination of their prison by the light of Retiefs cigar lighter. "If worst gets to worst, I can always flush myself down the sewer; but don't worry, pal. I'll stick around and keep you company until you starve to death before I split -- and I do mean split." "That's thoughtful Gloot, but maybe it won't come to that." "Aha -- so you have got a couple aces up your sleeve. I figured. Come on, Retief, let me in on the scheme. How are we going to hoist these Terries -- " "Groaci." "Whatever you call 'em, I still don't like 'em. What dramatic stroke are we going to bring off now?" "First we find a comfortable spot on the floor," Retief said. "Yeah? Okay, I'm with you so far." "Then we wait." "I'll be frank with you, Retief: somehow the program don't sound too promising." IF "It's all I have to offer at the moment." "Oh." A pause. "Are we, ah, waiting for anything in particular?" "I'd be inclined to jump at anything that comes along." "You must be joshing, Retief. How can anything come along to jump at. We're locked up in an underground dungeon with only one hole in it, namely the one the bilge runs out of?" "That narrows it down," Retief conceded. "You mean -- " "Shhh -- listen." A faint rustling sound became audible. Retief thumbed his lighter; the pale flame cast a feeble glow across the slimy floor. Something stirred below the four-inch drain orifice. An eyeball crept into view on spidery legs, swiveling to look around the cell before emerging onto the floor. Behind it an ear fluttered up the shaft, circled the chamber, came to rest in a far corner. A hand crawled into view, paused to hold up two fingers in a V, then turned to assist a set of sweetbreads over the coping. "Cripes," Gloot muttered as more and more Freebies swarmed into the cell. "What is this, a convention? The place is crawling with vermin!" "Steady, Gloot," Retief cautioned. "When I said jump, I didn't mean literally." "It figures the crumbums would stick us in a hole infested with parasites!" "Keep your voice down, Gloot. If our jailors suspect we have guests, they'll soon be along to break up the party." "Yeah -- even a bunch o' Terries -- or Groaci -- foreigners, anyway -- ought to have the decency to fumigate the place if we put up a howl -- " Gloot broke off, his mouth hanging open in an expression of horrified outrage. "Why, the lousy, dirty, obscene little buggers!" he gasped. "Right out in public, too!" Under the feeble beam of the lighter, the eyeball had edged close to a generously proportioned nose which waited coyly for its advance. They touched, groped -- and melted into a close embrace. A second eye appeared from the drain, glanced around, rushed to the conjoining couple and promptly took up a position on the opposite side of the nose. An upper lip linked with them, as other candidates crowded around, while more and more streamed up from the depths. "It's -- it's a regular orgy, like I heard about but never got in on!" Gloot blurted, and raised a large, booted foot to stamp out the objectionable spectacle; Retief caught his ankle barely in time, dumped him on his back. "Easy, Gloot," he said. "It's time you faced up to the facts of life." "Just wait until I get my other lung in place," a breathy voice squeaked from the direction of the congregating singletons, "and I'll give that big hypocrite a piece of my mind! Maybe that'll raise his IQ to the moron level so he can understand me when I tell him what I think of him." "I thought maybe it was you who's been dogging my footsteps," Retief said. "Welcome aboard, Ignarp. You couldn't have come at a better time." IX iRetief," Ignarp said five minutes later. He was completely reassembled now, his component parts having settled into position and accommodated themselves so perfectly that the lines of juncture were barely visible. Being able to reassemble gives us a big advantage. That's why the rest of 'em are out to get us!" "The reasons normal Lumbagans got no use for these degenerates," Gloot stated with contempt, "is on account of they got no finer feelings. When they put theirselfs together thataway, they as good as admit all us Lumbagans evolved from lower formal" "Ontogeny recapitulates philogeny," Ignarp said smugly. "Everybody knows that." "Sure -- but decent folks don't admit it!" "Which brings us to the question of why you trailed me here," Retief said. "I tdld you I'd keep an eye on you -- " "Yes, I saw it fluttering in the middle distance." "And it looks to me like maybe things are even worse than we thought. And you're the only one that maybe can do something about it. Ergo -- here I am. What can I do? Get you some light reading matter? Take last messages to loved ones?" "Better yet, you can get us out of here." "I don't know, Retief," Ignarp said, eyeing Gloot, who stood at the far side of the cell, arms folded, a sullen expression on his face. "Why should I go to bail this clod out of stir?" "Because I'm afraid my plan won't work without him," Retief said. "Who needs him?" Ignarp challenged. "All I have to do is slide back out the way I came in -- " "I still don't believe it," Gloot muttered. "Me -- associating with this degenerate. Having to stand here and listen to him talk about it." " -- infiltrate the building and reassemble inside. Then, when you pound on the door and yell and the guard comes to work you over with the rubber hoses, I jump out and nail him." "I got a better idea," Gloot said. IF "Retief, you lend your coat to this deviate: we set up a yell, and when the bums come running, they open the door and see the two of you up against the wall thumbing your noses. Naturally, they come charging in -- and I jump out behind 'em and lay 'em low." "Some plan," Ignarp commented. "They see Retief without his coat and a total strainer wearing it, and that's supposed to lull their suspicions?" "Okay,  borrow his coat -- " "So they see him without a coat and me naked -- and. they figure I'm you, only two feet shorter and better looking -- " "No, I got it. Retief borrows my coat -- " "You're not wearing one, dummy. "So he keeps his coat! You get back of the door -- " "Don't tell me what to do, tall, spotted, and grotesque!" "You got a nerve, short, blotchy, and depraved! I got a go mind -- " "Want to bet? We do it my way. See you later, Retief -- " "How about waiting long enough to hear my proposal, Ignarp?" "Well -- okay. Who wears your coat?" "I do. It's you two fellows who have some changes to make." "Huh?" Gloot said uneasily. "What you got in mind?" Ignarp said suspiciously. "Somethii far worse than you think," Retief said. "Tell me, Ignarp, how would you like to see Lumbaga pacified by a dictator?" "You kidding? We like to fight among ourselves. Having all the fat in the hands of the exploiting classes is bad enough without some spoilsport depriving us of our national sport and pastime. Forget it, Retief -- " 'D BE glad to, but I'm afraid a fellow named Ussh has a more tenacious memory. Uidess we do something to stop it, by this time tomorrow Lumbaga will be at peace -- permanently." "Well, what are we hanging around here for?" Ignarp demanded. "Let's try my dan, and -- " "All the more reason to get going on my plan!" Gloot cut in. "Gentlemen," Retief interrupted, "there comes a time in any friendly fight when it's wise to pause and give a thought to consequences. At this moment the opposition is busy putting the finishing touches on a plan that's been years in the making. The occupying armies are already marchii on the capital -- and we're sealed in a vault forty feet underground, engaged in a jurisdictional dispute." "Uh -- well -- " Gloot said. "It doesn't look good, does it?" Ignarp said soberly. "The proposals now before us," Retief said, "would afford a few satisfying cracks at the heads of our captors and might even get us as far as the end of the hall before the inevitable end. What's required is a plan with sufficient scope to carry us through to a successful conclusion." "I'll buy that," Gloot said. "But -- " "Out with it, Retief," Ignarp said. "I've got a funny feeling I'm not going to like this." "Probably not," Retief agreed. In a few brief words, he outlined his proposal. A stunned silence followed. "Retief! And I thought you were a fine, upstanding fellow -- for a foreigner," Ignarp berated him weakly. "If I hadn't heard it I wouldn't have believed it," Gloot said in a choked voice. "Well, how about it, gentlemen?" Retief said. "We don't have much time." "You expect me to lend countenance to a thing like that?" Ignarp protested. "It's'enough to make your eyebrows crawl !" "What if my friends heard about it?" Gloot muttered. "It's not traditional," Ignarp complained. "It's against nature." "Mongrelization -- " "I'll be dragged down to his level -- " "It'll never work." "Couldn't we talk about it first? For a few years, say -- or maybe a century or so?" "It's now or never, fellows," Retief said. "After tomorrow every Lumbagan on the planet will be herded into a Freeby farm and integrated forcibly, regardless of his sensitivities." "Me?" Gloot said. "And that -- that -- dilettante?" "That -- that oof -- and me?" Ignarp wailed. "It's that -- or something worse," Retief said with finality. "Could you at least -- douse the light?" Ignarp said. "I need a shot o' rum," Gloot said. "Of course." Retief handed over his flask and switched off; the dim glow faded. In the darkness there were soft, tentative scufflings, faint mutterings; Retief paced the cell -- three paces, back three paces -- whistling softly to himself. Time passed. Silence fell. Retief paused. "Ready, gentlemen?" "We -- I -- guess so," a curiously mellow voice answered. Then, more strongly; "Yes, ready, Retief." He flicked on the lighter. In its glow stood not the dumpy Ignarp nor the lanky Gloot, but a tall, superbly muscled figure, brawny arms folded over a mighty chest, four golden eyes glowing from a broad and noble brow alight with intellect. IF #OW do I -- we look?""the Tlidealized Lumbagan inquired. "Ready for anything," Retief said. "By the way, what do I call you now? Somehow neither Ignoop nor Glarp seems to fit the new you." "What about -- Lucael?" "It's better t)ian Michifer. Now, Luke -- if you'll pardon the familiarity -- I think we'd best get on with the next phase without delay." "The next phase?" "As the first Octuple Lumbagan in history, I assume you have unique abilities. Let's find out what they are." "Yes -- I see. The conclusion is logical. By introspection, I note that I have, of course, enhanced physical strength and endurance, exceptionally keen hearing and vision." Lucael paused. "A most interesting effect," he said. "By bringing either pair of eyes to bear on an object, I of course achieve the familiar stereoscopic effect: three-dimensional sight -- a vast improvement over the monocular vision of the former Gloot identity. But when I bring both pairs into play simultaneously, channeling the impression through my compound occipital lobes, there is an exponential improvement. I can clearly perceive nine dimen-' sions: five spatial, two temporal, and two more the nature of which will require careful analysis -- " the resonant baritone faded off as Lucael stared, somewhat crosseyed, at the corner of the room. "You'll have plenty of time later for research in depth, Luke. For the moment we'd better stick to the practical applications." "Of course. The first order of business, clearly, is to adjust spatial coordinates in such fashion that our loci lie external to the enclosure by which we are at present circumscribed." "Unequivocally, if not succintly, put. Any suggestions?" "Hmmm." Lucael glanced at each of the four walls in turn. "Solid rock to a depth of several hundred feet on all sides." He stared at the floor. "Twenty-five miles of rock, underlain by a viscous fluid at high temperature and pressure. Fascinating!" "That leaves the ceiling," Retief prompted. "To be sure." Lucael glanced up. "Yes, this is the simplest route." He glanced at Retief. "Shall we go?" "After you." The super-Lumbagan nodded, folded his arms -- both pairs -- and rose gently from the floor. In the moment before his head would have contacted the ceiling the rocky surface seemed to shimmer, fading suddenly to invisibility! Without pausing, Lucael rose steadily up, waist, knees, ankles, to disappear from sight. A moment later a sharp, breathy cry sounded, followed by a dull thump. caught the edge of the circular opening now miraculously existing in the stone slab, pulled himself up into what appeared to be a guardroom. A lone Groaci lay stretched on the floor, peacefully snoring. '"It was necessary to numb his cortical synapses -- temporarily, of course," Lucael said apologetically. "Poor little creature, so full of vain plans and misconceptions." "Aren't we all," Retief said. "Luke, let's see how good you are at finding things at a distance. We need fast transportation." "Let me see... Hmmm. I detect a boat at a distance of three hundred yards on an azimuth of #I " # '." "What kind of boat?" "A hand-hewn canoe sunk in four fathoms of water. There's a large hole in the bottom." "Skip that one, Luke. How about a nice two-man copter?" "No -- nothing like that. However, I note a modest power launch lying at anchor some two miles to the east." "Ensign Yubb must still be busy pacifying the army. I believe his boat was powered by a small fusion jet. I don't suppose -- " "I've already started it," Lucael said. "Just a moment while I lift the anchor -- there. Now, let me see: which is reverse? Oh, yes. Now, all ahead, half speed until she's past the bar -- " "Nice work, Luke. While you're bringing her around to this side of the island take a quick scan of the building." "Very well. A guard or two dozing in the keep. Two Groaci in sick bay with contusions. Half a dozen unfortunates lodged in the brig. Ussh seems to be gone. Yes, I detect his aura -- a most powerful one -- some ten miles t# the east, traveling fast." "It's time we emulated him. Let's go, Luke; we don't want to miss all the excitement." "You refer to the moment when Ussh announces his assumption of power and his program of Galactic conquest?" "No," Retief said. "J mean the moment when he discovers that Newton's Third Law applies to politicians as well as ping-pong balls." They met no opposition as they left the now almost deserted building. Lucael picked a route down the hill through the dense woods to emerge on the beach just as the unmanned power launch rounded the curve of the shore and headed in toward the beach. They splashed out through the shallows as the engine cut; the boat glided silently up to them. Aboard, Lucael restarted the engines and Retief took the helm.  "Ussh's first column has just entered the city from the west," Lucael announced. "He himself is at this moment leading a procession along Brigand Street toward the IF palace. Rioting seems to be proceeding as usual."" "Let"s be grateful for His Ultimateness"s fondness for dramatic gestures,"' Retief said. "If he'll occupy himself with his victory parade for an hour or so we may be in time." "In time to thwart his coup?" "Probably not. But with luck in time to tage a small coup of our own." He opened the throttles and the powerful boat surged ahead across the dark water toward the city lights fifteen miles to, the east. T he shadowy shapes of Groogroo, Delerion and Rumboogie rose in turn from the darkness, slid past on the port side, dwindled astern, none showing any signs of life with the exception of a few small campfires glowing high on their forested slopes. Ahead, the lights of Thieves' Harbor spread wider, reaching out to enclose them as they passed the breakwater. The wharves were deserted as the sleek craft nosed up to the Municipal Pier. Retief cut the power, tossed a line around a piling and jumped to the wharf. "The place looks strange without at least one small street fight in progress," he said. "Apparently it takes a war to bring peace to Lumbaga." "The crowds have gathered near the palace complex," Lucael said. "A cordon of armed troops surrounds the area. Ussh is in the ballroom, in company with a number of off-worlders." "Is Ambassador Pouncetrifle among those present?" Retief described the Terran Plenipotentiary. Lucael confirmed that he was included in the group. "They seem to be linked togetheT," the super-Lumbagan added, "by means of a chain attached to a series of metal collars which in turn encircle their necks." "Apparently Ussh intends to establish a no-nonsense foreign policy," Retief commented. "The idea has merit, but in the present case we'll have to try to introduce a little nonsense after all." "Interference may prove difficult. All entrances are blocked by the crowd. I can of course levitate myself to any desired point within the atmosphere, but the amount of extra weight I'm capable of carrying is limited." "Piggyback is out, then. Let's try the back door where your Ignarp segment and I first met." Retief led the way across the plaza and down Dacoit street, poorly lit by the widely spaced gaslamps, deserted now, littered with the forlorn fiotsam crowds leave behind. They were within a hundred feet of the inconspicuous door when a small party of helmeted and greaved Groaci soldiers emerged suddenly from a narrow cross street ahead. The officer in charge hissed an order; his troops spread out to block the way, then one by one crumpled to the cobblestones. The officer, the last on his feet, stared uncomprehendingly at his collapsing command, then belatedly jerked his pistol from its sequinned holster only to drop it, totter two steps, and fall. Lucael staggered back against the wall of the building beside them, his face working like yeast. "Geeze -- I just had the screwiest nightmare," he muttered, almost in Gloot's voice. "Another -- lousy trick by -- unprincipled exploiters, ril wager," he added in Ignarp's petulant tones. "Luke! Pull yourself together!" Retief snapped. "You can't afford to go to pieces now!" Lucael's features twifched and subsided. The four golden eyes settled back into position. "I -- find that -- there are limitations to my power output," he said weakly. "Come on, Luke. Just a little farther." They covered the remaining yards to the doorway. The heavy door opened on the musty passage. "From now on save your strength for emergencies," Retief said. "I think I can guarantee there'll be a steady supply." through the dusty passages, ascended the stairs to the kitchens, which they found deserted and showing signs of rapid evacuation. A cramped spiral service stair led from an alcove beside the dumbwaiter to the upper stories. At the top, faint voices muttered beyond the door which opened into the private-apartment wing. "A party of minor Groaci officials," Lucael said, speaking with his eyes closed. "They seem to be placing wagers as to whether Terra will be granted colony status or merely regarded as conquered territory." He paused. "They're gone now." Retief eased the outer door open half an inch; crimson carpet led to a pair of massive, carved purplewood inner doors, just closing behind the sporting aliens. Retief went swiftly forward, got a foot between the doors before they closed. The anteroom beyond was empty; through a low, arched opening. the barbarically splendid ballroom was visible, crowded with a mixed throng of locals and aliens. In an elaborately carved chair at the far end of the room sat a towering Lumbagan draped in a robe of Imperial purple, flanked on one side by Colonel Suash at the head of an honor guard of matched native troops in shining cuirasses and polished helms, power guns at present arms, impressive in spite of a number of black eyes and bandages in evidence. At the other side of the throne stood a detachment of Groaci Peace-keep-v ers in full uniform. A gaggle of Groaci functionaries, including IF Ambassador Jith, stood nearby. Ambassador Pouncetrifle, leaning sideways because of the weight of the chain on his neck, stood before the throne; a dozen or so members of his staff huddled behind him in a tight group, none apparently craving the honor of sharing the front rank with the Chief of Mission. "... sensible of the honor and all that, your Imperial Highness," the Terran Ambassador was saying, "but see here, I can't simply offer Terran recognition of your regime on my own authority." "Let's simplify the proposition," a deep bass voice boomed from the Imperial chair. "Acknowledge our divine right and sign the treaty and we'll allow you to linger to observe our coronation before you are whipped back to your kennels." "Ah, if I might venture an observation -- " A faint voice spoke up from the Groaci delegation. Ambassador Jith stepped forward. "While one fully appreciates the eminent propriety of the installation of a native Lumbagan regime entertaining kindly sentiments toward the Groacian state -- " "Yes, yes, get on with it!" the enthroned Lumbagan rumbled. "To be sure. Your Imperial Highness -- I merely meant to suggest that perhaps a less precipitate approach to the question of recognition -- " "Our photograph, hand-tinted by skilled coolies, will be distributed to every village, hamlet, and town in the Eastern Arm. Recognition wise, we'll be better known than that fellow Whatzizname who won the nogdle-knitting contest on TV!" "Doubtless, sire, your fame will be quickly spread abroad -- " "No broads! As an asexual race, we Lumbagans look with disfavor on any sport we can't get in on. That's enough of the subject. On with the formalities." His Highness favored Pouncetrifle with a scowl involving three eyes and four eyebrows. "Well, what about it, Terran? Do you want to acknowledge the legitimacy of our gracious rule and receive an exequatur allowing you to go on using up our Lumbagan air -- or would you prefer to play a stellar role in the first death sentence we hand down from our newly established throne?" "Apparently Your Imperial Highness is having his little jape," Jith hissed in apparent dismay. "As Groacian Plenipotentiary, I must advise that the Groacian state would look with extreme disfavor on the establishment of any unfortunate precedent with regard to informal methods of diplomat disposal. A simple declaration of persona non grata -- " "Nope. Italian food gives us heartburn," the Imperial figure decreed. "And if we hear any more static from aliens of any persuasion we might just revise our whole plan for Galactic enlightenment to include you Groaci out!" A n unusually tail and robust Groaci stepped forward from the rear rank. "Ussh!" Lucael whispered. "Pm sure that matters need not come to that," Ussh said unctiously, "Doubtless His Excellency, on further consideration, will wish to withdraw his objection." The Emperor-elect, who had slumped rather vaguely on his throne as the Groaci spoke, sat up alertly. "Very well; on with the executions. We'll make a note to send for a fresh set of Terries more amenable to reason -- " "To protest this unwarranted assumption of authority," Jith whispered urgently in his own language to Ussh. "To remind you -- Special Appointee or otherwise -- that I am ranking Groacian official here!" "I see no reason to coddle Terran spies," the other replied in Lumbagan. "This is Groac's opportunity to get in on the ground floor -- why annoy His Imperial Highness with minor quibbles on technical points?" "To point out that once these natives begin lopping alien heads, Groaci organ clusters may be next to roll." RetieFs companion was staring at nothing, his eyes half closed. Ussh stirred uneasily, looked around the ornate room. "It appears that I now confront an intellect equal or superior to my own," Lucael murmured. "He sensed my touch and instantly erected barriers, the strength of which I cannot assess." "Enough!" the enthroned Lumbagan spoke up abruptly, as if returning from a reverie. "Captain -- "he pointed a limber digk at the guard chief -- "escort the condemned to the courtyard and give your marksmen some unscheduled target practice. No need to finish them off in a hurry; just keep peppering away until they stop twitchmg. "Time to move," Retief said. "Luke -- stay out of sight and keep an eye on Ussh. No matter what happens, stay tuned to him -- and don't tip your hand prematurely." "What's your plan, Retief? I'm not at all sure I can control him -- " "No time for plans; we'll have to play it by ear," Retief said and thrust the doors wide. "Hold everything gentlemen," he said as all eyes turned toward him. "There are new dispatches just in from the hustings that cast a different complexion on matters." X F or a moment total silence gripped the chamber. Then: "Seize him!" Ussh snarled. When the guards failed to IF move he repeated the order in a shout. "Don't slip out of character, Ussh," Retief said. "You're just a troops work for His Putative Highness the Emperor-to-be." "Retief!" Pouncetrifle blurted hastily in Terran. "Run for it, man! The official comset is in my quarters, at the back of the wardrobe under my golf clubs. Send out a code three-oh-two -- " "Uh -- what about it, Your Highness?" Colonel Suash said hesitantly, still standing fast. "Is it your command to nab this foreigner?" The would-be emperor's mouth sagged slightly open. His expression was that of someone lost in thought. "His Highness -- " Ussh said and paused. He seemed to be struggling silently with himself. "Looking for just the right word, Ussh?" Retief inquired amiably. He turned to the colonel. "Relax Suash," he said. "As you can see. His Highness is having second thoughts on a number of matters." "Take -- " the Emperor said. Retief took a swift step toward Ussh, who recoiled. "Stand back, Terran!" he hissed. "Your Highness?" said Colonel Suash, staring up at the musing figure on the throne. "Ughhrrr," the royal claimant said, gazing vacantly into space. "Ah -- Your Highness?" Suash repeated. "In the, uh, absence of any new orders, I presume I must carry out the executions?" "Just a minute. Colonel," Retief said. "You Lumbagans don't take orders from foreigners, do you?" "Not on your second-best toupee I don't," the officer snapped. "So don't try to give me any!" "By no means. Colonel. I'm referring to Swarmmaster Ussh, who represents himself as a Special Appointee of the Groacian High Council." "I don't take orders from him either." "No," Retief said, and pointed to the throne, "but his would-be Highness does." "What?" The officer half drew his dress sword and turned to the emperor-elect. "Do you mind if I chop this foreigner down right here, Your Highness, for that crack he just made about you?" "Ungunggunggg," the enthroned Lumbagan mumbled. His head rolled on his shoulder; his mouth hung slackly open. Abruptly he closed it, pulled himself upright. "We were just, ah, pondering our next pronouncement," he said briskly, as Retief took another step toward Ussh, who stood frozen, two eyes canted tautly toward the throne, the other three hanging limp. At the Terran's advance, he spun to face him. 'Now, Colonel -- " the Emperor-to-be paused, mouth open. "Yes, Your Highness?" the colonel watched in dismay as his ruler-presumptive's expression relaxed into vacuity. "You might as well address your remarks to Ussh," Retief advised the officer. "He's the brains of the operation." "See here, Retief," Pouncetrifle spoke up. "The intellectual prowess of the Emperor is no concern of ours -- " "It's the intellectual prowess of Ussh I'm thinking of at the moment, Mr. Ambassador. He has a number of rather unusual capabilities." "Lies!" Ussh shouted. "Fantasies! The ravings of a disordered imagination! I'll see you all hanged for disrespect to His Imperial Highness! It's all a plot to discredit the people's choice, elevated by acclamation to the Lumbagan throne!" He was interrupted by a slithering sound, followed by a heavy thump as the Emperor slid from the elaborate chair and sprawled full length on the dais, snoring gently. #T'S a plot, all right, Ussh -- A but you're the one behind it," Retief said. "It wasn't His Imperial Highness who mobilized the troops and took the capital by storm -- it was you." "Guards! Shoot them down in their tracks for aggravated UsemajesteV Ussh shouted. "What about it. Colonel?" Retief addressed the guard chief. "Was it our slumbering host who gave the order to march on the capital?" "Well -- not personally, of course. General Ussh notified me -- but he was simply relaying His Imperial Highnesses' commands -- " "Wasn't it also Ussh who passed along the instructions that organized your unit in the first place and handed out the orders regarding the secret laboratory?" tion material you're discussing!" "Not . any more. You've been taken in. Colonel. Those were all Ussh's ideas -- " "Mr. Retief!" Ambassador Jith spoke up. "May I remind you that I am Principal Officer here and that I have given no such instructions to any member of the Groaci delegation -- " "I'm sure you haven't, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "But Ussh seems to have taken it upon himself to use your name." "Very well!" Ussh hissed suddenly, wheeling to face the irate Groaci, who shrank back. "Perhaps I have employed unconventional methods. But clearly it's to Groac's advantage to go along with the fait accompli As soon as the Emperor is safely ensconced on his throne. I'm in a position to IF assure you that Groac will be the object of very special attentions by His Imperial Majesty," "What's that?" Colonel Suash roared. "Are you suggesting that the Emperor o-f Lumbaga is nothing but a tool of foreign interests?" "Not at all, Suash," Ussh hastened to reassure the officer. "Merely that the new Lumbagan government can rely on the full support of Groac." He turned back to Jith. "What about it. Your Excellency?" he said urgently. "You'll agree that it's clearly your duty to support His Highness' claim -- " "Don't listen to him, Jith," Pouncetrifle blurted. "You're quite right -- Groac has no business whatever sticking its olfactory organ into Lumbaga's affairs, especially when I was right on the verge of proposing a wellrounded scheme for installing a provisional governing committee under Terran sponsorship -- " "You presume to tell me my duties, Harvey?" Jith cut in Swarmmaster Ussh so cogently points out, Groacian obligations in support of formerly exploited peoples require that I put aside ordinary protocols for the nonce and -- " "I don't like it," Suash spoke up. "It sounds to me as if you aliens are getting ready to slice Lumbaga up among yourselves! Accordingly, as senior Lumbagan national present. I'm assuming temporary command. And my first act will be to order the lot of you to the port to embark inside of thirty minutes, with or without your suitcases!" "Fool!" Ussh snarled. "Do you imagine your feeble native regime can survive for a moment without the sponsorship of Groac? If it weren't for His Highness' temporary indisposition he'd have your head for this!" "And I might add, my dear Colonel," JLith whispered piercingly, "that at a word from me, units of the Groacian Grand Battle Fleet are prepared, if necessary, to land and restore order here!" "You wouldn't dare," Pouncetrifle quavered, jowls aquiver. "Would I not?" Jith contradicted. "I see a great Groacian triumph in the offing! And now, Colonel," he addressed the officer, "you and your chaps may withdraw. I'm sure that His Highness will be himself in a moment -- " The Emperor stirred, sat up. "Well, just felt a short nap coming on," he mumbled as he scrambled to his feet. "Now, you just run along as Jith suggested, Suash, and -- " "How do you know what he suggested?" Suash snapped back. "You were out stone cold on the floor." "Yes, well, as to that -- " "He knows," Relief said, "because Ussh is feeding him his lines."Tlyour senses, Terran meddler?" Ussh yelled. "Everyone in the room heard His Imperial Whatsit's cogent comments!" "Uh-huh -- but you were doing his thinking for him -- what there was of it. Unhappily for the future of the empire, you can't think of two things at once. Right now, for example, you're busy being indignant with me -- and your candidate for the crown is relaxing on thejpb." Every head but those of Ussh, and Relief swiveled to regard the figure slumped again bn the throne. "Heavens!" Magnan gasped from the sidelines. "You mean we were about to offer our credentials to a ventriloquist's dummy?" "Not quite. He's alive -- but when Ussh assembled him he carefully left out the more useful portions of the brain." Suash stared uncertainly from his potential sovereign to Ussh, who stood with canted eyestalks in a pose of total concentration. "If that's true -- " "Nonsense, Colonel," the Lumbagan emperor-elect said firmly. "I repose the fullest confidence in Ussh, a marvelous fellow and my most trusted advisor. Now I think you'd better run along. We have matters of high state policy to discuss." "Don't go," Pouncetrifle cried. "Colonel Suash, I call on you in the name of humanity to remain present -- there's no telling what might happen in the absence of witnesses." "I take orders from His Highness, Terry." Suash snapped. "And he said go. Accordingly, we're going." The colonel barked a command. His troops right-shouldered arms and marched away across the polished floor. "Relief -- do something," Pouncetrifle wailed. "Do what, Mr. Ambassador?" Ussh inquired in tones of triumph. "His Highness has spoken. And now -- " he paused until the last of the Lumbagan soldiers filed from the room and the tall doors shut behind them -- "and now, with those trouble-makers out of earshot, on to the disposition of the Terran spies -- " He drew a power pistol from inside his ornate jacket. "A pity they should happen to be shot down by accident as they led an attempted assault on His Highness' person, but such are the tribulations that beset those who would stand in the path of empire." "You wouldn't -- " Pouncetrifle gasped. "See here, Ussh," .Ambassador Jith whispered. "You don't actually mean to commit violence on the persons of the Terrans, I trust? To deport them in restrainIF ing fetters, yes. But I forbid you to do # iway with them entirely." "It will be our little secret, Your Excellency," Ussh cut in curtly. "His Imperial Highness has matters under complete control." "Are you quite certain of that?" Jith asked, eyeing the presumptive ruler, who now stood swaying slightly, gazing into the middle distance. "He presents the appearance of an unsuccessful lobotomy case." "Why not tell him the rest of the secrets, Ussh?" Retief said. "Let him know how clever you really are. Describe your discovery of a sure-fire method for assembling Lumbagans to order -- according to any genetic code desired. Tell him about your experiments, which produced some rather unusual types, some of whom proved useful for special purposes, such as terrorizing the populace. Describe youF soldier farm and let him in on the secret of the lab where you worked out the details of your hostility transmitter -- " "Silence, spy!" Ussh shouted. JLr urged. "Give the ambassador full details on how you plan to soldiers modeled after himself and equipped by Groac, and use them to set up a modest empire in this end of the Arm, after which you'll no doubt establish branches on all the likely planets to raise spares for the army. With forced feeding you can produce a fully equipped infantryman in a little under three weeks, giin and all -- " "Ha-ha," Ussh said. "You will have your little jest, eh? Gallows humor, I believe it's called." "You made your big mistake, of course, Ussh, when you let Suash and his boys leave," Retief said. "He was your only chance to make it stick -- " "So you imagine." Ussh spun to face Jith. "The time has come for the carrying out of His Highness' commands. If you would like to do the job personally it would be a gracious touch in keeping with the close relations existing between Lumbaga and Groac." "Wouldn't it though?" Retief said. "If you could con Ambassador Jith into committing himself to the murder of a covey of Terries he'd have no choice but to back your play. Fortunately, he won't be so foolish -- " "You think not!" Ussh snarled. "Jith -- order them shot -- now!" "Don't you dare, Jith!" Pouncetrifle yelped. "I absolutely forbid it -- " "Forbid, you say?" Jith whispered. "You go too far, Harvey -- " The Groaci Ambassador faced Ussh. "If you're quite sure the Terrans planned the murder of His Highness, it of course becomes my duty to -- " "To listen to the rest of the story," Retief said. "There are a couple things Ussh forgot to mention -- " "Details, details!" Ussh yelled. "The important fact is that I, at the head of an army of dedicated troops, will lead the way to the conquest of vast new territories, eliminating or enslaving inferior peoples along the way, and in the end organizing the entire Galaxy as a single Empire under a single rule!" "A glowing picture," Retief said. "But of course Ambassador Jith has no reason to lend support to the scheme." "Have I not, Mr. Retief?" Jith whispered. "I admit Swarmmaster Ussh has employed unorthodox methods -- but if the end result is a Galactic Empire under Groac -- " "Correction, Mr. Ambassador. Groac will be among the first victims." "Victim? Of her own troops, under her own general Ussh? Preposterous!" "It's true that Ussh and his army will be in position to cut quite a swath, with Groaci backing and Groaci material. And no doubt in what's known as an accommodation with the de facto situation. But you're forgetting an important datum. The troops who'll be doing the conquering won't be Groaci; they'll be Lumbagans, no matter how many eyes they happen to have." "Well -- as to that," Jith stalled, looking to Ussh for counsel. "I assume that as honorary Groaci, true to their exalted somatotype, we may rely on General Ussh to keep the interests of his mother-world in the forefront of his mind."I-"And his mother world is Lumbaga." "Clearly he's taken leave of his senses," Ussh grated. "Granted, he's a most unusual Lumbagan," Retief went on. "Normally, once an accretion of Freebies reached the Four-decker stage -- at which point intelligence appears -- their finer sensibilities prevent them from carrying evolution any farther. But it appears that General Ussh broke the taboo." "What vile allegation is this?" Ussh yelled.  "Careful, Ussh, you'll give yourself away," Retief said. "It doesn't seem to vile to anybody but a Lumbagan." "This is all nonsense, of course," Ambassador Jith purred. "But tosatisfy my curiosity -- go on, Mr. RetielT' "Ussh -- or whoever the original Lumbagan personality was who had the idea -- overcame his scruples and integrated himself with another individual -- possibly a Trip; a sub-intelligent creature, but of course the combination has IF capabilities that exceed those of either of the original components. Unfortunately, he used his enhanced mental powers to concoct a scheme to take over Lumbaga first, then the rest of the material Universe. Naturally he needed help; he made a study of the foreigners present on his world and picked the Groaci as the likeliest partners. With his abilities, it wasn't hard for him to readjust his external appearance to match yours, Mr. Ambassador -- " "He's raving!" Ussh yelled. "How could anyone possibly -- " "It wasn't easy, at first -- but you figured it out. Some of your practice models are still running around in the woods, making Groaci tracks to confuse the trail. But in the end you were able to palm yourself off on a few malconlist some behind-the-scenes help to set things up for your coup -- " "That, Terry, is your final error," Ussh grated and aimed the gun at RetieFs ribs. "Ussh -- control yourself," Jith keened. "What simpler than to give the lie to this fantastic allegation?" "Is it fantastic?" Retief said. "Ussh, deny you're a Lumbagan -- but do it in Groaci, just to be certain your fellow countrybeings don't miss any of the finer nuances." "Bah, prepare to die, witless Terran -- " "Ussh, if you expect my aid and support -- do as he says," Jith hissed. Ussh hesitated, then turned to include the Groaci delegation in his field of fire. "Think what you like, Jith. You'll dp as I bid or die with the Terrans. I'll explain to your successor how you and the Lumbagans slaughtered each other, only myself surviving -- then I'll enlist his support and on to empire!" "Why -- why, RetieFs right," Pouncetrifle gasped. "Jith -- he won't speak Groaci -- because he can't -- at least in a way to fool you. He's an imposter!" Duped," Jith wailed. "Undone by my credulity -- faked out of position and into unwitting support of a non-Groaci conquest by an underling -- and a bogus one at that!" "Don't feel too badly," Retief said. "He only intended to use you Groaci to finance his first few local takeovers. As soon as he'd consolidated his gains, Groac would have been quietly consolidated into his empire, with the help of a number of pseudo-Groaci agents who would have infiltrated Groac by then." "Race on, Retief," Ussh invited, "Familiarize these fools with the scope of their folly and then -- " Ussh whirled as the tall double doors burst wide. Lucael strode forward, his golden eyes gleaming. "Yes? What is it?" Ussh barked uncertainly. "You have dispatches from the field? Or -- " He staggered suddenly, as if struck a heavy blow between the eyes. "Treachery!" Ussh gasped -- and Lucael stopped in his tracks, stood swaying. Face to face the two super-Lumbagans stood, locked in mortal -- though invisible -- conflict. "Ussh," JRetief called. The imitation Groaci half-turned -- and in the momentary distraction, Lucael struck. Ussh gave a hoarse cry, stood dithering for a moment... Like a tree struck Dy lightning, the false Groaci's body shivered and split. For a moment there was a wild scramble of parts as the former superbeing's components regrouped themselves into two separate entities, arms and legs and ears scuttling for their assigned plates. In a moment two short, sullen individuals stood where Ussh had been, staring apprehensively around at their astounded audience. "Why -- it's Difnog and Gnudf, the Lumbagan observers!" Pouncetrifle gasped. "And apparently," Jith whispered, "They were more observant than we suspected!" XI Terran diplomats, freed of their shackles, had huddled with their Groaci colleagues for an impromptu meeting. 'Well, then," Ambassador Pouncetrifle said crisply, "since General Ussh seems to have opted for a return to civilian life and His Highness is permanently catatonic, it appears we're left with the administrative problem of setting up a pro-tem housekeeping government As Terran emissary, :I'll reluctantly assume the chief role in affairs -- " "Hardly, My dear Harvey," Jith interjected. "Inasmuch as the present contretemps was produced in part by Grecian efforts -- " "Pseudo-Groacian efforts, need I remind you!" "A mere quibble, Mr. Ambassador. Groac will undertake to set up a caretaker government, with the assistance of Colonel Suash and his native constabulary -- " "Gentlemen," Retief said. "Aren't you forgetting the Emperor?" "Eh?" 'What's that?" Both plenipotentiaries turned to survey the Imperial figurehead, who stood erect now,gazing sternly at the assembled foreigners. "You need not trouble yourselves, gentlebeings," he said curtly. "I'll handle the government of Lumbaga -- to the extent that Lumbaga needs governing." He turned, stepped up on the dais and seated himself on the throne. "Item number one," he said impressively. "Any foreigner found meddling in Lumbagan affairs will be shipped home in a plain wrapper. Item number two -- " "If we could go back for a moment to item one. Your Highness -- "Make that 'Majesty,' Pouncetrifle. I've just assum Imperial dignities for the duration of the emergency." "To be sure. Your Majesty. I'm certain that on reflection you'll want to rescind the restriction on Terran participation in Lumbagan national life, inasmuch as, as worded, it would tend to somewhat restrict the free play of diplomacy -- " "Precisely. Item number two: since that government governs best which governs least, I intend to provide only the best for my people. Accordingly, all laws are declared illegal, including this one." "Hmm." Pouncetrifle mused, "since His Majesty seems clearly to be non compos mentis Jith, it's clear that duty requires that responsible authorities step in -- in the interest of the welfare of the Lumbagan people. I trust you're with me?" "Assuredly, Harvey," Jith whispered. "I suggest we find quieter quarters for His Majesty; possibly space could be found in the former root cellar, while you and I proceed to arrange matters in consonance with the principle of the greatest good for the greatest number. And inasmuch as we Groaci breed like flies, I suppose you'll concede the obvious primacy of Groaci interests." "No need for dispute," the Emperor cut in decisively. "Inasmuch as neither of you will have anything to say about Lumbagan affairs from now on." "He's raving." Pouncetrifle stated flatly. "Jith, I call you to witness that His Majesty was babbling incoherently at the time I was forced to have him restrained. Retief -- assist the poor fellow down from his chair -- " "Curious accoustics in this room," Retief said blandly. "I thought for a moment your Excellency was proposing that we lay hands on a foreign Chief of State." "Mutiny, eh?" a Terran colonel barked. "Well, fortunately for democracy. I'm here to carry out the wishes of the people as interpreted by regs and expressed via appropriate channels -- " He advanced on the throne. Ten feet from it, he found himself floating an inch off the floor, his feed paddling vigorously. A brace of underlings sprang to his side, found themselves adrift, rising lightly as balloons toward the ceiling. Pouncetrifle uttered a bellow as he floated up from the floor, followed by Magnan and the rest of the staff. Jith uttered a faint cry and drifted upward, attended by his staff. Only Relief and Lucael remained on their feet. "Now that you've heard the details of the new constitution," the Emperor advised the levitating bureaucrats, "I declare the audience to be at an end. Don't bother backing from the presence-just disappear." At his words there were a series of sharp plops as air imploded to fill the vacancies created by the suddenly absent dignitaries. "I hope you didn't thrdw them completely away," Relief said. "Once they get their feet on the ground, I have an idea they'll take a realistic view of the proper role of diplomacy in the development of Lumbaga." "They're sorting themselves from among the tubers in the subbasement," His Majesty said. "And now -- I declare Parliament dissolved -- until -- the next time -- " he slumped on the throne and snored. Relief turned quickly to face Lucael. "Well done, Luke. I was wondering how long you could hold' out." "If anybody asks," the superLumbagan said in a failing voice, "tell them -- their Emperor -- will return -- whenever the situation demands. And now -- farewell. Relief -- " There was a final sharp implosion and Relief was alone in the throne room.TlSecretary Magnan said, "now that the excitement is over, one wonders if the entire affair weren't merely the product of group hysteria." They were sitting at a long plank table in the Imperial Feast Hall, dining somegency banquet rations in company with a cosmopolitan crowd of Terrans, Groaci, and Lumbagans. "Frankly, I'd be tempted to dismiss the incident as sheer delerium," the Terran colonel put in, glumly spooning in caviar. "If it weren't for the fact that I've suffered a virulent recurrence of an old potato blight -- " His expression brightened. "Of course, the condition will neccessitate my being invalided home for a few months' convalescent leave, which time I might spend quite profitably penning a memoir of recent events, possibly titled: The Importance of Mass Hallucination in Military A fairs,  "How about The Hallucinatory Importance of the Military in Mass AffairsT' Magnan proposed tartly. "Gosh, Relief," Gloot said as . the men of war and peace sparred verbally. "So you were really a Terry all along. Makes me feel kind of dumb to of been chumming around with the enemy. Lucky I changed sides." "You claim there's two kinds of Terries, male and female," IF Ignarp said. "Frankly, you all look alike to me." "Oh, there's a vas deferens between us," Retief assured his guest. "And I never got my ransom dough," Gloot said glumly. "On the other hand, I found out running things ain't all a bowl of cherries." "One taste of government was enough for me," Ignarp agreed. "I'll settle for good old anarchy any time." "Umm," Magnan smiled loftily. "But of course you chaps know nothing of the intricacies of politics. Now -- " he indicated the head of the table, where Jith and Pouncetrifle huddled -- "notice the resilience with which the ambassadors are coming to grips with the new realities, or whatever they are, of the situation, working out the rather complex protocols of establishing formal relations with a nonexistent government." "As long as they stick to shooting despatches back to headquarters and putting on charades for visiting politicos. Okay," Gloot said. "But the first time they step out o' line -- whammo! The Legendary Magical Emperor will be back on the job -- and next time they're liable tp wind up digging their way into the root cellar from below." "I hardly think the Lumbagan in the street is in a position to criticize matters of Imperial policy, Mr. Gloot," Magnan said According to Hoyle by Fred Hoyle  Geoffrey Hoyle One of the world's great astrophysicists teams up with his son Geoffrey (as they did in Rockets in Ursa Major) to bring you a new book of Science Fiction at its fascinating best! At all bookstores, # Harper # Row # # E. #d St, N.Y. #l# coolly. "I hope your association with Mr. Retief on his expedition upcountry hasn't given you a false sense of involvement in matters over your head." "You must be kidding, Terry," Ignarp said. "Gloot here is Minister of Imaginary Affairs in the Lumbagan government-inexile." "Government in exile?" Magnan frowned. "The only place for a government to be," Ignarp confirmed. "And I jist accepted a post with the Department of Education as Commissioner of Superstitions." "You're stamping them out?" Magnan queried confusedly. "Heck no. I'm starting new ones in keeping with a Tine old tradition dating back almost twenty-four hours." "Speaking of superstitions," the colonel said behind his hand to Magnan, "I think we'd do well to initiate a few of our own devising. For example, a carefully tailored myth to the effect that Terrans can work miracles -- like turning water into vintage Pepsi, for example -- " He broke off, staring in horror at the glass before him which rose gracefully into the air, its contents darkening to deep purplish red. The colonel followed it with his eyes as it took up a position directly over his head and inverted itself, discharging a cooling stream of effervescent fluid over the officer's startled features. After the colonel had left the table -- a departure noted by all present, accompanied as it was by a well-directed jet of liquid emanating apparently from thin air -- Magnan dipped a trembling finger in the puddle on the table and tasted it. "Pepsi?" Retief inquired. "Burgundy." Magnan choked." He rose hastily. "I think I'd best add a number of emendations to my preliminary repprt," he muttered, "lest it appear that I was so short-sighted as to doubt the existence of magic." He hurried away. "I thought you fellows had gone out of the miracle business pending the next crisis," Retief addressed Gloot and Ignarp as the two locals gripped hands across the table. "But since you haven't, try that last one again. Only this time don't spill any." A moment later they raised three paper-thin goblets of purple wine, touched them together with a musical clink. At the far end of the table. Ambassador Jith caught the gesture, raised his glass in response. "To a new era in interplanetary relations," he whispered cheerfully. "To peace and plenty for almost all -- within reasonable limits!" "That reminds me," Ignarp said, be wondering why I didn't redivide the loot along more practical lines while I was Emperor." "While you were Emperor," Gloot retorted. "While I was letting you go along for the ride, you mean -- " "You big slob, I was the brains of the outfit!" "You little creep, I handled all the tricky parts -- " "Gentlemen," Retief interjected, "We were about to propose a toast, remember?" Gloot lifted his glass. "To our friends, the good guys," he said. "And to our enemies, the bad guys," Ignarp added. "And to the hope," Retief said, "that someday we'll be able to tell which are which."  IF You yourself must die a little    name to possess, and there was of course no way for him to know until the end of his career that he would be forever famous among connoisseurs of murder as Ninefinger Jack. John Smith's marriage to his ninth bride, Marcia Runyon, took place on the morning of May the thirty first. On the evening of May the thirty-first John Smith, having spent much of the afternoon pointing out to friends how much the wedding had excited Marcia and how much he feared the effect on her notoriously weak heart, entered the bathroom and, with the careless ease of the practiced professional, employed five of his fingers to seize Marcia's ankles and jerk her legs out of the tub while with the other five fingers he gently pressed her face just below water level. So far all had proceeded in the conventional manner of any other wedding night; but the ensuing departure from ritual was such as to upset even John Smith's professional bathside manner. The moment Marcia's face and neck were submerged below water, she opened her gills. In his amazement John released his grasp upon both ends of his bride. Her legs descended into the water and her face rose above it. As she passed from the element of water to that of air, her gills closed and her mouth opened. "I suppose," she observed, "that in the intimacy of a long marriage you would eventually have discovered in any case that I am a Venusian. It is perhaps as well that the knowledge came early, so that we may lay a solid basis for understanding." "Do you mean that you are a native of the planet Venus?" "I do," she said. "You would be astonished to know how many of us are already among you." "I'm already quite astonished," said John, "to learn of one. Would you mind convincing me that I did indeed see what I thought I saw?" ered her head beneath the water. Her gills opened and her breath bubbled merrily. "Nature, on our planet," she explained when she emerged, "has bred as the dominant race our species of amphibian mammals, in all other respects superficially identical with Homo sapiens. You'll find it ail but impossible to tell us from humans except maybe by noticing those who, to avoid accidental opening of the gills, refuse to swim. Such concealment will, of course, be unnecessary when we take over complete control of your planet." "And what do you propose to do with the race that already controls it?" "Kill most of them, I suppose," said Marcia. "And might I trouble you for that towel?" "That," pronounced John, with any handcraftsman's abhorrence of mass production, "is monstrous. I see rriy duty to my race. I must reveal all." "I am afraid," Marcia observed as she dried herself, "that you will not. In the first place, no one will believe you. In the second place, I should then be forced to present to the authorities the complete dossier which I have IF gathered on the cumulatively interesting deaths of your first eight wives, together with my direct evidence as to your attempt this evening." John Smith pressed the point no further. "In view of this attempt," he said, "I imagine you would like either a divorce or an annulment." "No," said Marcia. "There is no better cover for my activities than marriage to a member of the native race. In fact, should you so much as mention divorce again, I shall be forced to return to the topic of. that dossier. And now, if you will hand me that robe, I intend to do a little telephoning. Some of my better-placed colleagues will need to know my new name and address." As John Smith heard her ask thq long-distance operator for Washington, D.C., he realized that he would be forced to take action immediately. He did. First with knife, then with gun. Through the failure of the knife, John Smith learned that Venusian blood has extraordinary, quickclotting powers and Venusian organs possess an amazingly rapid system of self-regeneration. And the bullet taught him a further peculiarity of the blood: that it dissolves lead -- in fact thrives upon lead. His skill as a cook was quite sufficient to disguise any of the commoner poisons from human taste. The Venusian palate, however, not only detected but relished most of them. Marcia was particularly taken with his tomato aspic a Varsenique and insisted on his preparing it in quantity for a dinner of her friends, along with his sole amandine to which the prussic acid lent so distinctively intensified a flavor and aroma. of divorce, even after a year of marriage, evoked from Marcia a frowning murmur of "Dossier..." the attempts at murder seemed merely to amuse her. Finally John Smith was driven to at the State University, recognized as the ultimate authority (on this planet) on life on other planets. The professor found the query of much theoretical interest. "From what we are able to hypothesize of the nature of Venusian organisms," he announced, "I can almost assure you of their "destruction by the forced ingestion of the best Beluga caviar in doses of no less than one-half pound per day." Three weeks of the suggested treatment found John Smith's bank account seriously depleted and his wife in perfect health. "That dear Gilly!" she laughed one evening. "It was so nice of him to tell you how to kill me; it's the first time I've had enough caviar since I came to Earth. It's so dreadfully expensive." "You mean," John demanded, She nodded. "And ail that money!" John protested. America's greatest physiologist took an interest in John Smith's problem. "I should advise," he said, "the use of crystallized carbon placed directly in contact with the sensitive gill area." "In other words, a diamond necklace?" John Smith asked. He seized a water pitcher, hurled its contents at the physiologist's neck and watched his gills open. T he next day John purchased a lapel flower through which water could be squirted -- an article he thenceforth found invaluable for purposes of identification. The use of the flower proved a somewhat awkward method of starting a conversation and often led the conversation into unintended paths; but it did establish a certain clarity in relations. It was after John had observed the opening of the gills of a leading criminal psychiatrist that he realized where he might find the people who could really help him. From then on, while Marcia was engaged in her activities preparatory to world conquest, whenever he felt he was unobserved he visited. insane asylums, announced that he was a free-lance feature writer and asked if they had any inmates who believed that Venusians were at large upon Earth and planning to take it over. In this manner he met many interesting and attractive people, all of whom wished him godspeed in his venture, but who pointed out that they would hardly be where they were if all of their own plans carried as hopelessly as his. From one of these friends, who had learned more than most because his Venusian wife had made the error of falling in love with him (an error which led to her eventual removal from human society), John Smith ascertained that Venusians may indeed be harmed and even killed by many substances on their own planet, but seemingly by nothing on ours -- though the wife had once dropped a hint that one thing alone on Earth could prove fatal to the Venusian system. At last John Smith visited an asylum whose director announced that they had an inmate who thought he was a Venusian. When the director had left them, a squirt of the lapel flower verified the claimant's identity. "I am a member of the Conciliationist Party," he explained, "the only member who has ever reached Earth. We believe that Earthmen and Venusians can live at peace as all men should, and I shall be glad to help you destroy all members of the opposition party. IF "One substance on Earth is deadly poison to any Venusian. Since in preparing and serving the dish best suited to its administration you must be careful to wear gloves, you should begin your campaign by wearing gloves at all meals -- " This mannerism Marcia seemed afforded her by her marriage and, even more particularly for the delights of John's skilled preparation of such dishes as spaghetti airaglio ed dlVarsenicOy which is so rarely to be had in the average restaurant. Two weeks later John finally prepared the indicated dish. Marcia had praised the recipe, devoured two helpings, expressed some wonder as to the possibility of gills in its creator, whom she had never met, and was just nibbling at the smallest bones when, as the Conciliationist had foretold, she dropped dead. Intent upon accomplishing his objective, John had forgotten the dossier -- nor had he even suspected that it was in the hands of a gilled lawyer who had instructions to pass it on in the event of Marcia's death. Even though that death was certified as natural, John rapidly found himself facing trial for murder, with seven other states vying for the privilege of the next chance at him should the trial fail to end in conviction. With no prospect in sight of a quiet resumption of his accustomed profession, John Smith bared his knowledge and acquired his immortal nickname. The result was a period of intense prosperity among manufacturers of squirting lapel flowers, bringing about the identification and exposure of the gilled masqueraders. But inducing them, even by force, to eat the substance poisonous to them was more difficult. The problem of supply and demand was an acute one, in view of the large number of the Venusians and the small proportion of memperform the sacrifice made by John Smith. It wjs that great professional widower and amateur chef himself who solved the problem by proclaiming in his death cell his intention to bequeath his body to the eradication of Venusians, thereby pursuing after death the race which had ruined his career. All that had to be done, he pointed out, was secretly to slip a bit of human protoplasm into random meals -- and the sheep would be separated, by death, from the goats. The noteworthy proportion of human beings who promptly followed his example in their wills has assured us of permanent protection against future invasions, since so small a quantity of the poison is necessary in each individual case; after all, one finger sufficed for Marcia.  "There! I told you! I told you!" John, the miner, was sheathed in folds of black scaly skin. Sweaty, unaccustomed muscles smarting from lengthy surface travel, he squinted into the haze above the water. "I don't see anything," he said in a voice suitable to his physical status. One large black armored knuckle clicked nervously. Quint's verdant fur ruffled in the salt breeze. "Oh, you can't see anything, cave-eyes," he said. "I can, too," said John, shading his enormous red eyes from the sun's painful rays as much as from the insult. "I can see as good as you can. Better. Remember in the ruins -- " "Cannot," Quint spat back. "Cannot! Cannot! " It was the wrong time and the wrong place and John was in the wrong mood. He was hot and thirsty and full of muscle aches -- even his long toes longed for a return to the dark moist earth they were used to. The harsh dry sand gritted under his nails. Fire flashed deep in his miner's eyes. "I can see good enough to grab you, you little green ape," John said, his long right arm and clicking mandible snaking out as if after a diamond in the wall of one of his tunnels. Quint yelped and tried to sidestep but his agility was not enough. The thin black digits choked off his wind and then the fight was really on. All the others could see was their backs -- Quint's small and green, John's large and black -- in the center of a swirling tornado of sand. "All right! All rights Champ said. He waded in as he might have shoved his way into a torrential mountain stream after succulent fish in his far homeland. His huge meaty paws grabbed both combatants and held them far apart, one on each side of his massive gray chest, "Enough of this stupidity. Enough of fighting! Our fathers fought sufficiently for all!" "But it's there, I tell you." Quint said, his voice becoming shrill as he struggled in the giant's paw. Excitement and frustration were bringing the Monk to tears -- but the Champ's hands were bringing him and John close to strangulation as they struggled. Finally both relaxed and panted for breath and Champ's grip loosened slightly. "I think Quint's right," said a small voice from Marv's back. They all turned. "I think I see something also, way off near the curve of the bay." Champ turned and squinted into the blue distance. "Too far for my poor eyes, too far. All I can see is sand, but if you -- " "I do," said the small voice. "It's white, like the sand. Blends in. But it's there." Champ let the fighters slide to the gritty sand, where both lay limp and panting. 'See," Quint managed to gasp, 'Harold -- Harold agrees with me " Champ looked down at the prostrate green monk and black miner. "Don't you two flght no more," he said seriously. "No more." "I -- I guess I can't sec too good," John mumbled from where he lay. He looked up at Champ's massive figure looming above him. "Too good," he repeated. Marv used his long supple tail to help Quint resume his seat. The party started off again across the blowing golden sand. John struggled to his feet, glanced back at the dark rolling mountains of home, then at the sea and the straggling party around the red dragon called Marv. He sighed deeply from his miner's lungs and followed sullenly. through heavy sand brought the party close enough for all to see the object easily. It was a boxish, low rectangular affair, large enough to contain them easily, if they could find a way into it and if it proved hollow. Maybe they could use it in the fall to avoid the purple mists. Maybe it contained some treasure like the cave full of canned peaches John had found the summer before. Its color was like the sand. As they came closer they could see that the object was pitted by the constant blowing of harsh crystals. Many years must have pas since its construction in the oldtime. And it was oldtime -- of that they were all sure. The group of friends traveled mainly in silence. Champ had little to say at any time. He liked to think of himself as a doer rather than a thinker like Harold or a talker like Quint. John was too depressed to talk. He tried to think of dark caves and moist soil as he dug his sharp toes into sand time after time, step after tedious step. Quint didn't want to pick another fight with the miner. He knew that anything he said might rub John the wrong way and he was trying to get back his wind after the morning's hassle. Marv didn't talk because he couldn't -- not with his mouth. He was not equipped with vocal cords. He would have had a lot to say, but he couldn't say it and that was that. Marv was not one to storm at cruel fate -- he nodded and thought his esoteric thoughts and kept them to himself as he marched patiently across the beach. Harold shivered under the thin blankets that shielded his frame from the bitter wind. He was doing his best to cling to Marv's swaying back. Harold was too tired to talk. When they were only yards away Quint hopped (flew?) from his place on Marv's back and skipped IF to the crumbling structure he had discovered. "See! See!" he shouted into the fresh breeze and at the sea. "I told you! Here it is! What fun!" He scampered, jumped to the low roof and did a playful dance as the rest came up to the walls. Quint's prancing feet set flying showers of fine loose dust and little pieces of wall. "Cut that out," Champ said in agitation. Quint laughed. The giant reached out a hand to catch the Monk, but was too slow. Quint scampered out of reach to the far side of the roof. "Can't catch me!" he cried. "Naaaa!" He laughed again. "Who wants to?" John muttered sullenly, but nobody listened to him. Harold carefully slipped off Marv's broad red back, bracing himself against the heavy wing muscles. He straightened his spindly legs, took a deep breath, then started to examine the side of the building near him. "See, Mary," he said, fingers running lightly over the crumbling white surface, "it's from the oldtime. My daddy built this. And he flew, too, better 'n you. Maybe I can find out where he went. Maybe I can find out where they all went, our folks. Maybe we can all go home. Come on, Marv, let's see if we can find them." Marv nodded, keeping his thoughts to himself as only Marv could, and folloiyed Harold. John looked about him. Champ was lumbering down'to the ocean to catch some flsh for lunch. Practical idiot, uncaring lummox... John wondered what had ever possessed him to join the group. Why? Why? All they ever gave him was spite and backtalk. He hated them. Then he remembered the long cold nights by the Tree near the purple glowing Pit and the voices -- and he shivered. Still -- he did hate them. If only there were someone else, some other human company -- with a shake of his head to clear it of cobwebs of memory, John reached, dug his nails into the top of the roof and hauled himself up. Quint saw him and deftly flicked a pebble at him. It hit -- and stung. "Hah!" yelled Quint in glee. "Can't catch me, can't c atch me!" And the little green fool hopped out of reach, smiling from tufted ear to green tufted ear, showing small pointy white canines. John idly waved his long arm, anger dying in frustration. "Who wants to? Who wants to anyway? Go away, leave me alone." "Ahhh," said Quint in mock pity. "Can't stand to be wrong, John? Sore loser? Awhhh." "You!" John's long fingers found a loose piece in the rocklike material of the roof. He hurled it at Quint, who pumped his wings just once and skipped out of the way. "Hah-hah-hah. Poor, poor John. Can't do anything right." Quint dropped off the edge of the building to find someone else to play with. "Damn idiot," John called after him. Damn idiot, John repeated in his thoughts, folding his long triple-jointed legs under him. Damned if I can enjoy this cruddy game. Fll just sit here and sulk, he told himself and that was what he did. lto Marv. "Look, iron." He was leaning against a break in the building's pale surface bn the side away from the burning sun. A I#rge rusted plate was set in the grainy material of the walls at that point and Harold was examining the pitted surface. "It's got to be iron -- or steel. I wonder, could it be a door? Maybe somebody's inside." Harold tapped the door lightly and a few flakes of rust fell to the sand at his feet. He tapped a little harder, listening -- a hollow gong sound answered. That, and nothing else. "Maybe, Marv, maybe they all went through this door and left." Marv nodded silently. Harold peered closer. "Runes," he said, noticing scratches, etchings of oldtime letters in the rusty flaking surface. "Writing. American. I wish I knew how to read. I wonder what -- " Harold reached out one fragile#ight-boned hand and gently traced the outlines of the letters -- what letters he knew not. "I wonder what -- I wonder what they said to each other, Marv." "Hey! Heeey!" came a voice that they recognized as Champ's. "Heey!" It came from a few yards away, oyer a sand dune. They discovered Champ at the bottom of a large pit. As sand was still cascading about the lip -- an obldng circle about thirty feet in diameter -- it appeared the giant had been the victim of a cave-in, a common occurrence around oldtime ruins. Champ had a string of still flopping fish around his neck. "Oh, hello up there," he said as they peered down. "I seem to have gotten lunch a little sandy." He shook his head. "Sandy." "Are you all right?" Harold asked. "I don't know. I guess so. I was walking back with lunch -- and then I was down here. I guess there was a cave-in." Indeed, there was even a cave -- a few feet from where Champ was seated, a small black mouth gaped at them, glints from inside promising unexpected delights. "What's in the cave?" Harold asked, pointing. "Huh? What -- oh." Champ squinted at the black mouth. "Yeah, looks like oldtime stuff. IF Metal, Gimmicks. Things. Over there, too." Champ pointed to a place almost directly to Harold's right. The boy shifted his head to look at a tall pillar of oldtime metal, pointed at the top and flared at the base. It reached up from below where Champ was seated -- part of the base was covered by sand almost up to ground level. Its coat of white paint had aged to match the yellow entombing sand. It looked pretty, with its metal and white paint and a black strip or two here and there. Near the bottom a few oldtime runes like those on the door, chipped and peeling, could still be made out. "I wish I could read," Harold whispered to himself again. voice dragged the boy back to the present. "Huh?" "Help. Help get me outa here. Now?" Champ's sad brown eyes looked even sadder at the bottom of the pit; for once the giant found himself in a situation in which his great muscular bulk was a negative rather than a positive factor. "Oh. Oh, yeah, sure. I'll get John -- " ButJohn had already come. "Did I hear somebody mention a cave?" he asked. Harold turned. "Yes. Down there. See it? Want to explore it and help get Champ out?" "I don't know if I do," John said, pouting, shaking his head. "Aw, John -- somebody has to help Champ out." "Oh?" "We all gotta pull together -- " The miner frowned sadly and shook his head. "I can't dp it -- and certainly neither Marv nor Quint -- " "Yes," John saidsharply. "Certainly not Quint." "Come on, John. We need you," Harold pleaded. "Oh, all right. Just remember you said it." John looked over the lip of the depression. God, do you ever need me, he thought to himself. You babies couldn't get along without me -- couldn't survive a day. Thinking of a cave he'd once found by the yellow river, he nosed down and then over like an inchworm, first digging ahead into sand as far as he could stretch, then looping his body until his toenails were directly behind his hands. All the way down the gritty slope, John inched and slid and scraped on his thick-skinned belly. Soon he was slipping down the few last feet to Champ. "Good to see you, John." "Good to see you, Champ." John smiled, stood up right and brushed off his dull black skin. "Let's explore -- then I'll get you out." He held down a hand to the giant. "Okay." Champ smiled back and came to his feet. edge of the pit, swinging his feet. Marv couldn't sit down any more than he could talk. "I wonder what it is," Harold said, indicating the pillar. "Maybe it's a pen-cil.'-' Harold had difHculty with the unfamiliar word, which he'd picked up from a hexmanstory-teller over by El-A desert, so he said it again. "Pencil. Or a stove. Or a car. Oh, maybe it's a car and John will find the controls and then I'll figure out how to drive it, like I did the can opener, and weUl all go for a ride. Oh, I wish -- " "Hi, gang," said Quint, coming up the slope. "What's up?" The Monk was covered with sand. He should have been totally exhausted and ready for bed, but he was still eager. "Champ fell down in that hole," Harold told him. "Now John and Champ are exploring a cave." "Wow! Wow # wowowow. I'm going down too." Quint scampered out of Harold's reach, ignoring the boy's frantic command to stop. He went down the sandy slope, using his wings to brace himself and slow the fall. Harold sighed, resigning himself to fate. At the bottom Quint found John and Champ in the cave. It was a small cave -- large enough , only for the three of them and maybe one more. There was a lot of oldtime equipment .around -- stools and rusty old chairs with broken legs and a large metal wall thing with dark dirty glass squares on it and little switches and buttons and all sorts of fun things. Both John and Champ were sitting on the stools and playing with the buttons. They hadn't noticed him -- he'd surprise them and play, too. Quint jumped onto a table and started pressing every button in reach with all his fingers and toes. "Surprise!" he chortled, laughing in glee. Gosh, this is fun! he thought, scrambling on top of a metal shelf and prancing on the pushy things he found there. His arms searched over his head for more things to play with. When Quint caught the looks on Champ's and John's faces he laughed even louder. "Where the hell did you come from?" John asked irritatedly. "Hey," said Champ, "stop that! We're exploring, not playing!" "Hahahahah!" Quint screamed, pressed a button. Lights went on. "Wow!Hahahahah!" Rewarded, he pressed more. A flashing red light went on over John's head. A shrill siren sounded. "Wow!" cried Quint again. This was the best game yet! John glanced about wildly. The little fool, he thought. You can get killed fooling with oldtime stuff -- and that ape will do it yet. "Hahahahah!" screamed Quint. "Can't catch me -- " Champ threw a fish at him. Then things happened fast: IF Quint pressed another button, a pretty red one. John grabbed a metal rod, that was attached to something, to throw at Quint. That little ass! John thought, straining at the rod. There was a deep roar, like sudden thunder. The rod in John's hands came dowHy not off. The rod came scraping down and John's face was illuminated with harsh white light from outside and then another roar swelled even louder and flames burst from the metal the dancing-fighting-throwing animals that once might have been men -- or at least men enough to Tight and kill -- to a crisp and then in an instant to fragments of those crisps. And Harold had just time to say, "I wonder -- " and Marv had just time to nod before they, too, became chunks of burning meat as the missile roared into the twilight of the beach. H alfway around the scarred body of Earth was a small village. It had rows of corn and barley outside its rough log palisade. Two horses, three cows and one calf pastured on the harsh tundra grass beyond the crops. Twelve human beings lived in this village. Suddenly over the head of Creon, the headman, the commissar, the leader, there appeared high in the sky a burning streak. Creon looked up from his toil and used his gnarled hand to shade his eyes, that he might better see. A divine revelation came to him. "God," he mumbled to himself in his own language. "God!" He turned back to the village and started running madly, waving his hands, plough forgotten in the dust. He shouted, "God is coming!" And the other eleven human beings -- or reasonable facsimiles -- turned from their work to look up to the heavens. The calf stopped chewing to look up. too. But before they could react or breathe out in ecstasy or say a word (even the calf, who normally thought very fast and spoke even faster) the missile reached the right altitude for the two treasured spheres of metal that made up its warhead to coine together and bellflower blossomed on the scarred and bleeding Earth, burning the village and the corn and the barley and the horses and the cattle and the calf and the humans... and all that was left was sand blowing in the breeze off the sea...  After the Word was lost, men found it and gave it a name. D agger sidled along the stained wall, his sandaled feet almost silent on the grit and refuse, his senses alert and his weapon ready. They're along here somewhere, he thought, around the fringes of this Dead Area... Dagger had seen the whole tribe but once, a few weeks before. He and his tigers had been running from a raid in the Eight Thirties, scampering wildly through broken walls, jumping through the rips and tears from level to level, while holding tightly to two struggling women and some sacks of stolen food. His raiders had cut through an ancient, fire-blackened auditorium, into a huge lobby. The small tribe had been ready for them with knives and slings. The tribe's fighters had formed a ring about two small cooking fires on the broken floor, with the women inside the circle -- except for two who had long knives and looked able to use them. They'd heard the Tigers coming for six levels and the knives on the far side were searching the darkness for flankers, just in case. They had been very pro about it. Dagger remembered, not attacking right off, but obviously ready to defend. The laughing Tigers had crashed to a halt, knives out in an instant, and everyone had stared tough at everyone else until Dagger's family had edged past, weapons ready, and had then broken into a run across the lobby, with the wenches wailing even louder. Rolf had slammed his brunette alongside the head and shut her up and the blonde had quieted when she saw how far from #I they had come. Tiger country. Where they grow the tough ones. But Dagger still couldn't forget the blonde he had seen in the family huddle with the tribe they had surprised. Damn, she was something special... Tawny and smooth, with ripe mounds of breasts showing through and around the short-laced vest she wore. Beaded leather skirt with a long knife in the belt. She had crouched over a crying child, soothing it, her dark blue eyes on the sudden invaders. She had looked ready to defend. Dagger couldn't get her out of his mind. Hell, he didn't need another woman; he had two already. But this one is special, he told himself. Was the child hers? She looked too young to have birthed a squaller, but maybe so. Some of those tribes over by Frisco and down around Mexicompany were big on young bearers. Maybe this tribe was from Pacifica, or even the Catalina sector. They were always a crazy bunch, like the flock of tribes that started that zongo religion about the Second Coming of the Great Architect. They said he would come any day now. Zongo, the whole bunch. When Dagger asked, Rolf and Claw and Stripes said they had never seen the tribe before. Gary had wanted to go snatch a wench or two but the others had talked him out of it. They knew a tough bunch when they saw one. "Wait till four or five of these wenches sneak off or get sick or something," Rolf had told Gary. 'Then we'll go looking for fresh meat." Gary had looked up from his algae soup and said, "I had meat once, you know." They'd all heard his big story, but no one stopped him. "I was just a cub with the Wolves then, before I came over here. We found this little family, not even a tribe, that had barricaded themselves into a whole floor. A floor! This whole sector was theirs and they'd blocked iip all the entrances and fused slabs over the breaks and burns. And they had cattle, man, cattle. Greatest bunch of zongo animals you ever saw! Bony backs, big bloated bellies and breasts swinging underneath -- yeah, really!" Gary had waved his soup spoon while the others patiently waited. It wasn't bad hearing about meat animals once in a while. It sort of kept the dream alive that somewhere, hidden away, was a whole bunch of meat critters: cattle, sheep, chops, maybe big fat rdasts. "Damnedest taste I ever had. We ate ourselves sick and -- well -- that was the end of the cattle. When we came back the whole damned tribe got sore at us, started the big fight that broke us up. Which is why I'm over here now." "We know," Claw said, scratching a plastic wall with his metal hook. Changing the subject, Rolf said, "I'm thinking of a few new wenches. Maybe if we went down to six hundred or so and over toward the Arrowhead sector -- there was some pretty fancy floors over there in the old days. Still have some tasty little wenches twisting their tails around there." "Yeah," the others agreed and they quickly fell into their favorite conversation: Where Might Be The Best Place To Find Wenches, Loot, Food, Adventure. B ut Dagger hadn't really been listening. He drifted from the group and looked down through a rent in the floor at the new ones penned up with the old ones they couldn't trust. Why were wenches always running away? It wasn't as if any other tribe was better off. Not really. Oh, sure, the Frisco bunch have some zongo pleasure machines that still worked and the Mexicompany grew a lot of stuff besides algae on Top. He'd heard that one flock of zongos had found water running through their subsub-basement and had, hooked up a gadget that gave them electricity, freeing them from the solar cells on Top. Dagger walked away from the ripped entrance to the girl's confinement box and went to the place where Donna and Sherise were boiling clothes in a big metal pot. Donna looked at him with a certain speculation and gave him a slow smile, but Dagger ignored her. She was tired of Claw, that was all. He could tell. Or maybe she hated Claw for trading her once to the Panthers. Maybe she wanted Claw killed in a fight with Dagger. In any case. Dagger passed. IF What he didn't need was to lose a good friend and a Tiger just because some dumb woman wanted something different. In the next room Demon was hunched over some books. "Hey," Dagger said, pulling up a broken chair and seating himself carefully. "Give me some words." The skinny, long-faced young man looked up with a weary expression. "I'm reading, Dag. Can't you ask your silly questions some other time?" "They're not silly questions, you book freak. You're the only ace who can tell what I want to know. Well, you're the only one I know, anyway. "How come the women keep running off?" "They don't. Most of them settle down, don't they?" "Naw, they're always slipping away, going back." "Those are the ones you notice. They go because they have a lover or a family or a baby back there. Steal the baby with the wench and you'd have a lot that would stay." "Come on. Demon, you know we don't want any zongo yelpers around. They'd drive us crazy." Dagger was disgusted with Demon for not understanding that. "We move faster without kids, man." "Women, you lights-out daggerman, are different from men." He held up a hand against Dagger's grin. Different, man. Notice how when we stop somewhere the women start nest-building? Clothes are fixed, beds made up out of next to nothing. Cleaned floors. Figuring out ways to make things easier, right?" "Yeah, but that's what they're supposed to do, isn't it?" "It's the nest-building in them, Dag. And to them nests mean yelpers and squallers. Suckling kids is real woman stuff, something we just don't understand. When you don't take the kids the women go back. When you bash in the heads of the ones that are birthed you kill something inside the wenches and they go away." Dagger stared gloomily at an unidentifiably stained wall. "Why are they that way. Demon? I treat my women fine and I've had three go away." "Why are you the way you are? They're the way they are because that's the way women are." Dagger looked at Demon and sighed. "Why do you run with us? You're the one with the education. You could probably get into the Citadel or go up to Shasta and get taken in there. A lot better, man. Three bowls a day, things that work, even pleasure machines, I heard." Demon leaned back into a badly repaired chair and drummed his fingers on the book before him. "I was in Citadel once when I was a kid. My uncle was a teacher. He got us in. But they don't have everything. They're missing parts. big parts. Do you know what opera is?" Dagger shook his head. Demon knew all kinds of zongo things. "It's singing -- music and talking and a story. They had one opera. Just one. On an old tape. I didn't understand the language and they didn't either, but it was fantastic. Like finding a whole store, somehow untouched, with all the labels on everything. They had tapes. Picture tapes they could play on a few old oiachines. Sound tapes. They had some books. I read all the books till there wasn't any more to read. So I left. To find books. And whatever else I can find." There was a long silence. Dagger remembered how Demon had come out of the dark and fought Hoss. He had maimed Hoss so bad they had had to cut his throat and put him out of his misery. A good man lost for trying to throw a book on the fire. They'd almost exiled Demon for that but he had looked so zongo standing there, the book in one hand, with Hoss's blood on it and the long knife in the other, stained red to the hilt. "We can't afford two losses in one day," Rolf had said and that was it. "I found you a book once, remember?" Dagger said. "A big one, with pictures in color. Funny pictures -- like nothing I'd ever seen." "It was an atlas, Dag. Pictures of the world as it was before they covered it all up." "That must have been a long time ago." Dagger grinned. "Hey, what's this book? Is this the one you found last week when we came through that whattyacallit?" "Residential sector. Occupied up to-oh, twenty, thirty years ago. People living right in rooms all the time, the same rooms, just like in Citadel." "That's sure zongo. Why live in the same place all the time when you could run around and see things? Living like that would kill me quick. I'd rather cut my own throat." Dagger paused. "Is that what the wenches want? Settling down, staying in one dumb place till some knife pack comes and takes everything? That's really getting the Big Zongo!" "Some people like it. Dagger." "It ain't for me, no damn good for this knife, man, no damn good at all." Dagger shot a dark look at the two women stirring the clothes and then turned back to Demon, who was studying his book again. "What's the book?" he asked again, peering around Demon. "It's incredibly old, a copy of a copy of a copy, I think, bause they didn't have inerts then to print on. The original must be a thour sand years old and it's about a time long before that." "A fairy tale, like you read us in Desertown?" IF "I don't know. I wish I did. It seems crazy, really zongo, but I think it was real -- once, anyway." He closed the book and pointed to the title. "Howard Pyle's Book of Pirates." "What's a pirate?" "He was a lot like us, I think. Only he sailed ships on a sea of water and fought other men and took their wenches and treasure." Demon opened the book to a picture of a golden box on a rough blue floor. "That's water and that's a ship. See those men? They're attacking the ship." "Water? That much water? That's as big as a floor! Toad told me that when he came through Pacifica there were whole floors filled with water." time, before they had Vto cover everything up there were seas. Oceans. Covered threefourths of the whole Earth." "How many floors deep?" Dagger asked. "This was before they had floors and levels. Everything was open and there were fish to eat and meat animals on the ground." "Boy, that's hard to believe. Just bare ground. I saw some in Sierra and in Desertown, but it was sure nothing much. Just rough and hard and dry. Floors are better." Demon smiled and showed him a picture of two men Fighting. "It's called, Who shall be captain? Remember when Rolf and Turk fought? Like that?" "And that's their tribe sitting and watching? Where are their wenches?" "Pirates ran in a different sort of tribe. They'd go out in these ships on the water and find other places to raid and bring their loot and wenches back to an island where their other loot and wenches were." "Is an island like a sort of safe place, like Citadel or Sierra Tower or Shasta?" Demon nodded. "That way no one could steal their stuff while they were gone, huh? Pretty smart." Dagger peered again at the picture. "They sure look like they know what a knife is for. Show me some more." "Look at this one. A captain has captured a town and is getting loot from the people that live there." "Oh, like when we took Desertown? And those turtles gave us wenches and food and anything we wanted just so we wouldn't kill them?" He looked at the picture more closely. "They're mean, all right. That one guy has a goddamn long knife." "That's a sword. It's a very long dagger but specialized... Look here -- they're dividing the loot." "Still no wenches. What's the matter with those guys? They zongo?" "No, I don't think so. Pirates liked wenches all right. Hell, Dag, that's why I'm reading, to find out things. Now go away and let me read," Dagger rose and stretched. "Pirates sound like a fine tribe. How many were they?" "I don't know. Thousands, maybe." "Thousands?" Dagger was shocked. "They must have owned the whole world, a bunch of long knives like that." Demon smiled wearily. "There were a lot more people in those days. Anyway, the pirates were all wiped out -- or they gave up -- or settled down." "Settled down? You're faking me down a floor, man. No studs that look like them are going to settle down." Demon shrugged and hunched over his book. Dagger watched him uncertainly and then walked away. He sat down and thought about a lot of things -- the girl he had seen and pirates and the life he was leading. It was the most undisturbed thinking he had ever done. Or ever needed to do. And the more he thought the more he remembered the girl. Tawny she was -- and a fighter. He kept thinking about her until he couldn't stand it any more and he went looking. He found the burned floor where the lobby fires had been and tracked an ashen footprint down two floors and a little west before he lost the trail. But he kept on hunting and then, unexpectedly, he found them. The soft low sound of a wench's crooning came from a split in the building that went up and down maybe twenty floors. Dagger crept close to the broken edge, crawling silently for the last thirty feet. There they were, camped near the ripped edge of the floor just below the opposite side. Dagger lay watching, searching for her and not finding her. Maybe she ran away, he thought. Then there was a scurry of entering feet and the women were laughing and hugging three of the men who had arrived with bulging lootsacks. And she came out of the room to the rear and took one of the sacks and started setting out the algae cakes and green tubers. Was the one she got the sack from her man? She had the food set out and the other sacks were emptied and the little piles redivided. The girl stood iip and stretched, her breasts tight against her vest and the flat, taut tawniness of her stomach was bared. Then she looked up and straight at him. Dagger froze in place. He knew she saw him and his muscles tensed for flight. But she wasn't moving. She was just looking and alert. Her hand rested on her knife hilt. IF Shes not afraid. Dagger said to himself in astonishment. Slowly he raised his head so that she could clearly see his face. He could still be off and running before they could possibly get across that big rip in the structure. He saw the tenseness go out of her body. For a long time she just stood looking at him. Then she smiled. It was the smile that made Dagger go away. A smilel He trudged back through the floors and levels, up ruined escalators and down through cracked floors, along curved passages and . around ancient hexahedrons, along dim passages where even the glowevers had failed. She smiled! She didn't cry alarm. She didn't run. She didn't do anything. She , had checked the turf and decided there was only one knife -- and she had smiled! Dagger went back to his tribe and thought. Then he went wench hunting. That was a wench he wanted. He tracked her group to the edge of a Dead Area, then across a huge blackened ruin where one whole sector had exploded, then around a dried-up recreational park where anything could hide, and down a tall, dusty factory row. He was certain they were close because the last Tire had still been warm. He sidled along a wall and peered through a ruined door. A faint sound froze him and it was a minute before he moved again. Song? Yes, it was someone singing. He slipped quietly through several rooms of charred garbage to another passage. The song was louder and he knew exactly where it came from. As quiet as a nightcreeper he drifted toward a door and looked into the ruined garden beyond. This was the palace of some long dead prince or merchant baron. A cracked and empty pool was beyond the screen of struggling greenery. The tribe had camped in the pool around a dry fountain. And she was in plain sight. D agger watched in motionless silence until the tribal chief dimmed the lights and everyone settled down for the night. Three guards roamed the perimeter, but Dagger was used to keeping motionless and they did not detect him. Now what? he asked himself. Sneaking in there could get my throat vented. None of my brother knives wanted to come with me on a zongo mission so I cant muscle my way in. Dagger slept fitfully for an hour, then crept back and found a place two floors up and a way north. # track em and watch for my chance. For two days he was the ghost behind them, to their side and once, even ahead of them, when he hunkered down in a rusty storage bin in a place where they might camp. Imperfect visions of himself leaping into their midst and carrying her off before they reacted kept bothering him. That way Vd only have one way to run... Nothing worked or presented itself for exploitation until two days had passed. He found a water leak from above and cautiously tested it. The water was good, which meant he might expect them to use it. He climbed up one floor and lay close to a hacked-out hole made by some other hunter. One of the other wenches came first, then two of the older women, one with a quiet yelper. The squallers are very quiet with this tribe... Then she came. Alone. Dagger watched her move. Watching her, he almost forgot his mission, she was so pretty and so graceful. She had filled the jug and was turning to go before he acted. He dropped through the hole. She was too quick for him and her knife was in her hand when she turned. There was fear in her face. But not panic, he thought approvingly. She recognized him. There was a moment's wavering, then her knife hand was out, the blade was steady. But she hadn't cried out. Dagger smiled at her, slowly moving closer. "I'm Dagger. My tribe is the Tiger tribe. I want you to be my woman." Her eyes flicked beyond him, then around. "There's no one else," he said. "Just me. I don't want to hurt anyone. I just want you." "No," she said, the point of her knife weaving in a menacing manner. "I have a man." "No, you don't." Dagger didn't know why, but he suddenly felt this was true. "I don't think you have a man. But you want a man." "Not a Tiger man. They're raiders."  "We're pirates," Dagger said proudly. "You kill, take -- " The knife point was still weaving expertly. Her eyes darted again and her muscles were tense. "You kill babies. You break. You do not build." Dagger felt helpless. "We don't all kill. Demon reads books. He saves books! He read to us about Mother Goose and Walden Poftd and the long-ago people." He tried smiling again. "Books?" The girl was uncertain and Dagger stepped closer. "Yes, books. Books about life back then, you know, before. I've read a lot of books. About pirates, for instance. Did you know that most of the world was under water at one time? Ships sailed on the IF water, big golden ships full of men. And the whole world was dirt and water and sky, lots of sky, with air and birds in it, just like the murals, but not like up Top. Different. I could teach you about books," he said softly. "You read? You know about -- " Dagger knocked aside the knife and grabbed her. She screamed and he hit her on the chin. It took two blows before she slumped, dropping the jug, which broke, and the knife, which clattered. In an instant Dagger had scooped her up and was running. Behind him he heard a woman cry out, then the bull roar of several men shouting orders. He banged both her head and her feet, going through a place where a wall had fallen. He jumped a slidefall and raced down a passage, his heart thumping madly. Twist, turn, confuse. Labor up that broken stair to another floor, then double back overhead and down that ramp to end three floors below and heading west. Cut north. Lower her down an old elevator shaft, swing her limp body into a maintenance passage. Knock her out again when she struggles and carry her on your back through two whole sectors before collapsing. Dagger tied her up and fell back, breathing hard. He listened for pursuit, then grinned weakly. OuMwisted them! He sprawled on the grit of the battered floor and looked at the girl. Even with bruises she was beautiful. He reached out and touched her skin. Warm and smooth. His trembling fingers unlaced the front of her vest and he peeled back the imitation leather to expose her breasts. Full and firm. He wanted to touch but he couldnU bring up his hand. She awoke angry, afraid. She ignored her bared bosom and her tied wrists and ankles. "You zongo creeper-eater! You burned-out box! You Tiger!" Dagger raised his fist and started to hit her but her look blazed at him. "Go on. Tiger!" she taunted. "Knock me out again! That's all stealing!" She spat at him ineffectually. "You wouldn't know a book if it bit you!" "Books don't bite." Suddenly Dagger laughed. "You think books bite?" He grinned at her and suddenly wasn't angry any more. They all cursed him at first, but they came around. Except for the ones that ran away. "I suppose you want to take me to that filthy tribe of zapped-out vandals you call a family?" "Why not?" Dagger's pride was hurt. "They're a damn good bunch of knives. Better than anyone we meet." "Sure they are -- you run from the ones that you can't lick!" Dagger forced down the angry venom. She didn't really know the Tigers like he did. She'd change her mind. "You will learn to like them," he said softly. "I don't want to learn to like them!" Dagger looked at her through slitted eyes. "Could you learn to like me?" The question cost him and he wished he had not spoken. Knock her out and carry ner home... But she was silent. "Well?" he growled. "Perhaps. If you weren't so zongo. If you bathed. And didn't lie so much." "Lie?" "Yes, lie about books. Books are very precious and you lie about them, just to catch me." "I didn't lie about the books. Demon has books. Demon reads books to all of us, whenever he finds them. I've heard a lot of books. Robin Hood, he was like a pirate, who lived in a big sector like garden. There was a wench who told stories about zongo things. Floors that fly. Meat animals that fly. Princes that go out of citadels and run with tribes of knives. Oh, I have heard many books!" The girl looked at him. Her eyes were blue and her long hair yellow. Her breasts were tawny and round. Dagger knew now how Demon felt about books. "My name is Loree. If you read me books I will be your woman." Dagger hesitated. Demon read the books, not he. "I will see to it that books are read to you," he said grandly. "Then I will be your woman." She paused, then shyly asked, "You have other women?" "Yes," Dagger said. He was proud that he had had more than one almost all his life -- or since he got his first real knife. "Oh," Loree said, but her voice said much more. "Come, I will cut you free." 'His knife was in his hand but she stopped him with a pulling away. "How do you know that I won't run?" He grinned. "If you did not lie you will not run. If you lie and run, I chase and catch and will not trust you again. But if you do not run it will be easier." The girl made a sound which he could not easily understand, then moved her wrists around to be cut free. Two slashes and she could stand. She did not run. Dagger grinned again and sheathed his knife. "Come," he said, starting out, "I will read you books." How he would do so he did not know. But he would find out. His life had changed. Dagger thought, but just how, he was not sure.  IF science fiction who don't also read other forms of fiction and considerable non-fiction, I shall be happy not to make their acquaintance. True, there is a kind of man whose mind is so narrow that a fly standing on his nose can paw out one eye while kicking out the other. But in our field, I like to believe, a man can be a true fan without being a fanatic. For myself. I'll choose to read anything that gives me genuine pleasure or illuminates the universe of man and of nature. During the past year, while reading assorted science fiction, I also had the pleasure of exploring books I hadn't previously read by such authors as Eric Ambler, Nevil Shute, Thornton Wilder, Carl Jung, Hermann Hesse and James Cabell. I should also add the name of one woman -- Georgette Heyer -- whose excellent craftsmanship and consistency make a form of story I usually dislike a joy to read. Without such "outside" reading. I'd soon lose perspective, since our science-fiction literature may be judged good or bad only by the standards that apply to all literature. At its best, of course, science fiction can add another dimension to writing. It can go outside customary bounds to widen the range of human experience, broaden man's challenge to his own limits. (Fantasy can also do that, but too often at the expense of rationality.) As a consequence, the best writers of science fiction have developed'a flexibility of outlook, together with a joy in a deeper look, often lacking in most other fiction. Theodore Sturgeon (Putnam, #). The message of the title is a heartening one, but there is nothing else on the jacket to say that the volume is science fiction. Indeed, as Sturgeon points out in his Foreward, many of the stories are not sf in nature at all. At least half of them certainly are not. Fine. They have the feel of science fiction -- the good part of that strange tingle up the backbone that usually goes only with a first-class sf story. They have an inside-out insight that simply doesn't come out of the normal mainstream. And there is also the iceberg quality -- most of the thought given to them is below the surface where it only affects you after you are hit by his points. With a single exception, these are all new Sturgeon stories, only one of which appeared in a sf magazine. The # exception is To Here and the Easel, originally from a softcover anthology. The story may be fantasy or it may be a sort of allegory, but it definitely is the most readable outcry from the darkness of creativity I've ever seen. Outwardly it deals with a man caught between our reality and the world of Orlando Furioso, Inwardly, it may tell you why Sturgeon -- and many other writers -- sometimes vanishes for a time. I've always loved the story, but I'm biased by experience. Slow Sculpture appeared in Galaxy and won this year's Nebula award as the best story of its length. The award was earned, too. There are ten other stories, each somehow unique. One deals with Nothing at all -- literally, and in capitalized form. My favorite is Brownshoes, a quietly intense short story; in my opinion, this is the final summation of what Sturgeon has been patiently learning about human love for a quarter century of his writing career. The closest to conventional -- and to me, least effective -- is Jorrys Gap; and eVen that story is one I'm glad I read. Sturgeon is not only alive -- he's very well indeed. After reading the book, I feel much better, too! It's not all science fiction, but it is all highly recommended. mostly what I call visions: that is, they are essentially stories of man's achievements, of his hopes and of his possibilities. But if you insist on reading nightmares, you can satisfy your appetite with some rather beautifully dark ones in Alone Against Tomorrow, by Harlan Ellison (Macmillan, #). IF I find this the best collection of Ellison's work, that has been published. Apparently the author agrees, since he lets the stories speak for themselves, rather than telling us about them in lengthy prologues. Aside from a very brief introduction, they appear without blurbs -- and they need none, since some of them are already classics. Several of them are award-winning stories, with either a Hugo or Nebula to their credit. But of more importance, they are consistently stories with unified and strong emotional impact. I don't normally care for a catalog of the many short stories in a book, but the important ones are here:  Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream: Repent, Harkquin! Said the Ticktockman; and eighteen others. If you like Ellison's work, you'll surely find your favorite here. (My own happens to be O Ye of Little Faith but maybe that's because I was around at the beginning of the story. Harlan Ellison let me auction him off to the highest bidder, promising to write a short story using any three words the bidder supplied; he then sat down in the middle of the crowd and proceeded to write -- and surprised me by writing a darned good story that way.) If you haven't liked Ellison, some of these stories may change your mind. By and large, I find many characteristics of these stories are those which often irritate me. They use science and all of our attitudes toward the scientific method as rainwear, to be discarded when not necessary or put on whenever the flood comes. Also, they often seem to assume that some current attitude or social insanity is of ever-enduring importance. Yet a strange consistency is apparent here. When his use of either science or of current attitudes is considered against the total effect of the man's writings, it becomes evident that neither is the real nugget. Ellison is concerned with man's reaction to science; and with current insanities as disgressions from the main route of man's evolution toward -- hope-fully -- a degree of rationality. In a highly individual fashion, these stories wed the mainstream of our literature to science fiction. They deviate a long way from standard science fiction. But unlike the science fiction nightmares of some mainstream writers who have tried our field, they have consistency, they create their own worlds and they are worked out rigidly from theory to test. I recommend the book, particularly as a necessary balance to the tooeasy visions that are more common now. Starlight, by Hal Clement (Ballantine, #), is about as pure science fiction as can be written -- that rare and difficult form known as hard-science fiction. The situation, the background and the most important characters are all ones that could not be put into any other type of story -- and they all derive from a carefully detailed examination of scientific possibilities. This is the long-awaited sequel to Mission of Gravity, which I consider the best novel of its type ever written. The creatures from the former novel, capable of standing up to six hundred times our gravity, are enlisted by Earth to explore a strange new planet called Dhrawn, which may be either a planet that grew too large or a star that didn't quite make it. One exploring party is undf Dondragmer and the whole is commanded by Barlennan, both characters from the former book. Above them, but unable to get down into the forty gravities of Dhrawn, is a group of humans. The exploring party gets into serious and unexpected trouble, due to the strange nature of the planet with its unknown seasons and its unstable mixture of water and ammonia in the atmosphere. And the humans stew and try to help, while Barlennan seems to be carrying on some kind of undercover operation of his own to blackmail Earth into giving him some advantages. The novel is good and manages to be suspenseful. If it were other than a follow-up to a genuinely outstanding novel, I might be very well pleased with it. But it lacks both the fascination in detail and the fully developed interest in the characters that it should have. Partly the trouble lies here in the fact that Dhrawn presents only one major oddity to us; once we begin to accept the oddity of its atmosphere and the behavior of freezing and thawing, little else develops. It remains too much the same. There are hints that Dhrawn is so radioactive in spots that its temperature varies from ultracold to super-hot and that the world lies between stellar and planetary in nature. But little is ever made of this. Mostly the story loses its impact because the aliens are too much old friends. We already know them. Barlennan's plans remind us of similar ones in the previous book, however much his methods vary. The humans are so far out of the scene of action that the space allotted to them in the story seems far too great. Benj, the young man on the orbiting observatory, seems to fill far more space than necessary; and he's a little too good -- in behavior and in finding ideas -- to make a very interesting character. It's a good book, but it's greatly overshadowed by its predecessor. The science in it is excellently IF worked out and convincing. But I wish more of Clement's thoughts on the world of Dhrawn had been put to use in varying things on the planet. The behavior of water and ammonia mixtures is interesting, but even that amount of science can't sustain a novel well. F ew novels should be considered for pure scientific knowledge, of course. Fiction should entertain. Facts are better presented in non-fiction works and a few factual books are both fascinating in themselves and conducive to deeper pleasure in fiction involving backgrounds from honest science. Donald H. Menzel has been a recognized name in science fiction for decades. He has written fiction and articles for magazines and has done art work which has brightened our covers, though he refers to his imaginary Martian creatures as "doodles." He is also a highly regarded scientist, having been Director of the Harvard University Observatory for fourteen years. Now he has done a beautiful and highly informative book on his subject: Astronomy (Random House, #). This volume covers just about everything in the light of current knowledge, with an excellent look at the past and the evolution of the science. It is highly readable, easy to follow -- and it has some of the best illustrations and the most useful sky maps I have seen. If you want a reference book on this subject that can be read for pleasure, I can think of none better. If you are interested in the Moon you'll find a great bargain in Lunar Atlas y edited by Dinsmore Alter (Dover Publications, #). The book and the photographs are large, easy to study and the text is remarkably complete. It appears in soft covers, has the ruggedness typical of the Dover books and is easily worth twice the price. Finally, The Atlas of the Universey by Patrick Moore (Rand McNally, #) is a huge book and one that cannot be described adequately. If the price is too steep, ask for it at your local library and be prepared to spend several hours staring at some marvelous pictures, superb diagrams and excellent text. All three of these books are done with a love of the universe we know -- and of man's ability to know. A few years ago I might have called them science fiction -- today they're fact. Things have changed elsewhere in our culture, judging by another large and handsome book: The PulpSy compiled and edited by Tony Goodstone (Chelsea House, #). Color reproductions of a hundred covers from the old pulp magazines include a full dozen from the science-fiction field. There are also reproductions of the original illustrations with the stories. Fifty stories are included -- but here, science fiction doesn't come off as well, is represented only by two: Wanderer of Infinity, by Harl Vincent; and Parasite Planet, by Stanley G. Weinbaum. The weird and supernatural account for ten stories, two from Lovecraft and one from There is some introductory matter and a final summary on the super-hero characters, such as The Shadow and Doc Savage. But mostly the stories are allowed to speak for themselves. They do so very well and I think that generally the sampling is a fair one. Sic transit gloria, Ks hard to remember that about the time I began to write, a magazine stand was a gate to a land of eternal enchantment. With a dollar bill I could buy half a dozen magazines, each containing more words than most full-length books today and each filled with its own brand of excitement and adventure. I may not have learned about the plight of the poor -- I didn't need to, since I'd rubbed elbows with it: the Depression was just over then. But I learned to trek through the jungles of Sumatra, draw my sixgun, fight off werewolves, pitch the final winning strike and cross the deserts of Mars. Somehow, much as I may admire the revered classics of accepted literature, I cannot but feel that the unreal pulps taught me more about life and gave me a better preparation to live it than I ever got from Henry Esmond or Genji or even the Russians of Chekov -- and sometimes gave me a lot more fun. Maybe it's all nostalgia, this love for what we had back then. But maybe not. Take a good look, read the stories and make up your own mind. Science fiction may be the only literature that retains any of it today, but the world was once full of the sense of wonder. It's still there in The Pulps. And since I'm deliberately not reviewing only science fiction this time, I have an excuse to bring up another book. There's no good reason to mention it here, except that it's a very good story, done excellently, and I think it should be recommended. The Children of Llyr, by Evangeline Walton (Ballantine, #), is fantasy. Some time ago Ballantine used the author's The Island of the Mighty in the Adult Fantasy Series and she was so surprised to see her work in print again that she wrote diffidently to the publisher, saying she had unpublished novels laid against the same background. This is one of those. It is based upon the Welsh mythic literature and features the demigods of those myths. If she had put her story on some alien planet or alternate world and given the heroes powers vaguely explained by pseudo-scientific IF words, it would probably be considered fresh and excellent science fiction. The world of the Welsh myths is just as strange as any world of swashbuckling science fiction. And the amount of thinking she must have done to complete her background and her devices would be quite adequate for any work of science fiction. But the book has a reality of its own. Magic works -- sometimes, and more or less. The men in the story are both larger than life and somewhat less than modern men. But they stop being myth figures and become fully realized as human beings. Their world has a balance and a Justice unusual in fantasy. This is the way it would have been if the old beliefs could have been true at all. The book must have been written about the time I was buying all the pulp magazines almost forty years ago. It could just as well have been written last year, since it is thoroughly modern in its style and its handling of characters. It is, in fact, timeless in the sense that the very best telling of tales is always beyond the limits of any given time and place. It's a first-rate book. And as such, it deserves to be read. As I tried to indicate at the beginning of this review, there is a special joy to science fiction -- but there is also a special joy to any good example of literature. And the reader who broadens his interest may well return to our particular field with a fresh zest and insight to what science fiction offers. Which reminds me -- I've still got to finish page # of Finnegan's Wake before I start the next review...  L. North America were astounded by the abundance of animal life -- plains black with millions of bison, deer, wapiti, and progbuck; skies dark with passenger pigeons and other fowl. It never occurred to them that this was but a remnant of the fauna that had roamed the continent fifty or a hundred thousand years before. The total number of animals may have been much the same, but the number of different kinds of animals had drastically shrunk. In the late Pleistocene Period, besides species very much like those of the present day, the continent supported a swarm of other animals that have since disappeared. In the Northeast, the woodlands harbored the deermoose Cervalces, a tapir, and a beaver the size of a bear. The plains swarmed not only with bison larger than those of today, but also with horses and camels. Across the warmer parts of the country wandered herds of giant peccaries and animals of two kinds of South American origin: ground sloths, vaguely bearlike in outline but larger than any bear, with massive tails and hooked claws to pull down small trees to eat; and armadillolike glyptodonts with solid shells, as big as automobiles. Most impressive were the proboscidians: three genera of mammoths and a mastodon. In the north -- Canada and Alaska -- dwelt the northern mammoth, of the genus MammonteuSy resembling the mammoth depicted by Cro-Magnons on the walls of French caves: an animal about the size of today's Indian elephant but shorter in the body. It was extremely hairy, with a sloping back rising to two distinctive peaks over the shoulders and the head. These domes were probably reservoirs of fat. It had spirally twisted tusks which, in old 'males, crossed at the tips. Scientists have long wondered about these crossed tusks, since they would be of little use as weapons. A plausible theory is that they were used as snow shovels to get at buried food in winter. Across the warmer parts of the land roamed the southern mammoth, Archidiskodon. This was a much larger animal, probably almost hairless like modern elephants. In the intermediate regions dwelt elephants of another genus, ParelephaSy short in the body but long in the legs, with spirally twisted tusks like Mammonteus. There is no generally accepted common name for all the elephants of this genus, so I have proposed calling them favonian mammoths, from the Latin word for "temperate." The southern mammoth and the favonian mammoth were the tallest of all known proboscideans, reaching a shoulder IF height of over # feet. The tallest found so far is a favonian mammoth from Germany that touches # feet. But the southern mammoth was so close in height, besides being a more massive animal, that we cannot call either the "larger" without qualification. A modern African elephant in the National Museum in Washington stands # feet # inches; this is exceptional for this species but shows what can happen. A fourth proboscidean, the American mastodon, roamed the continent, its range overlapping those of the other three. Although more primitive than the others in jaw and tooth structure, this animal was of good size, about as tall as the woolly mammoth but longer in body and bulkier. were carnivores of all sizes, from bears bigger than the Kodiak grizzlies down to weasels. The sabertoothed cat Smilodon preyed on huge herbivores like the ground sloths, since its fangs could pierce even their thick hides. Even larger was a lionlike true cat, related to today's jaguar and of a similarly heavy build. There was an oversized wolf, Canis dints; and to clean up any remains a condor, Teratornis, bigger than either the Californian or the Andean condors of today. The other continents displayed similar assortments of huge animals, or megafaunas. Europe had Mammonteus, Parelephas, Archidiskodon, and a fourth genus, Hesperoloxodon. This was another huge elephant with long, nearly straight tusks. There were at least two species of rhinoceros -- the woolly rhinoceros, a hairy cousin of today's African white rhino, in the North; and the more conventional Merck's rhinoceros in the South. The warmer areas and periods hosted a hippopotamus like today's species. The huge Irish deer bore the largest antlers of the whole deer family. The story was the same in Asia. Northern Asia swarmed with mammoths, reindeer, and a huge hairy rhinoceros, Elasmotherium, with a single horn growing from its forehead like the legendary unicorn. South of the Himalayas lived proboscideans of several kinds, including Stegodon ganesa with the most massive tusks of the order. In South America dwelt ground sloths as big as small elephants; armored glyptodonts; hippopotamuslike toxodonts; camel-like macrauchenids with flexible snouts like miniature elephant's trunks; horses and mastodons from North America; and others. Even Australia had a megafauna, with kangaroos ten feet tall, wombats the size of a rhinoceros, and a monitor similar to today's Komodo dragon but # feet long. A few score of thousands of years later -- a mere tick of the geological clock -- all these megafaunas had vanished. They left mere remnants everywhere save in Africa and southern Asia, where several megafaunal types survived: two species of elephant, five of rhinoceros, one of hippopotamus and assorted giraffes, buffaloes, ostriches, zebras, antelopes and so on, with large canids and felids to prey upon them. Even in Africa, where the megafauna survived best, much of it still disappeared: an antlered giraffe, a sheep the size of a buffalo and a pig the size of a rhinoceros among others. The Great Death at the end of the Pleistocene was not,of course, the only such wave of extinction. There have been several. Two of these -- those of the Pleistocene and the Cretaceous -- are much better known than the rest because the lines that then became extinct included such large and striking creatures. The Great Death at the end of the Cretaceous saw the end of both orders of dinosaurs, of the pterosaurs or flying reptiles, and of the aquatic reptiles called plesiosaurs and mosasaurs. Several groups of invertebrates vanished at the same time. Among the cephalopods, which include the modern squids and octopi, the ammonites disappeared utterly, while the belemnites were reduced to a small remnant. Another group to vanish comprised , the bivalve mollusks called Rudista. About a quarter of all the known animal families disappeared at this time. At the end of the Permian Period occurred an even more drastic extinction, which wiped out about half of all the known animal families. This included three-quarters of the families of amphibians and four-fifths of those of the reptiles. We hear less about this Great Death because the animals that perished were less spectacular than mammoths or dinosaurs. The largest land beasts of the time were stout, plant-eating reptiles of vaguely lizardlike shape, waddling about on pillarlike legs and weighing as much as a cow. The many kinds of smaller reptiles were more like our idea of a lizard. In the sea, the armored fishes called placoderms, the trilobites (which looked like oversized woodlice), the eurypterids or sea scorpions (large insectlike crustaceans), and the crinoids or stalks) all vanished. A similar wave took place at the end of the Cambrian. The Cambrian is the first period for which abundant fossil remains have been found. This fact gives antievolutionists an excuse to claim that there must have been a sudden divine Creation at the beginning of the Cambrian. Actually, a IF number of pre-Cambrian fossils are known, consisting of sponges, worm burrows, sea pens and jellyfish. Since most pre-Cambrian animals were little soft-bodied things without bones or shells, their remains are scarce. In the Cambrian, vertebrates had not yet evolved, so there were no very spectacular creatures to perish. Nonetheless, about forty out of sixty families of trilobites went under at that time. There were also lesser extinctions at the ends of the Ordovician, Devonian, Triassic, and Pliocene periods. T he Great Deaths pose one of the knottiest problems in science. Such worldwide phenomena, occurring every fifty to a huncall for some uniform cause. But none of the explanations proposed seems to work when applied to more than one or two extinctions. Animals and plants are always dying out and being replaced by others: At least a hundred species have perished in the last century and many more are in a precarious state. The causes of the recent extinctions are, however, obvious. The culprits are the hunter with his gun and traps, the stockman with his flocks and herds and the farmer with his plow and pesticides. They kill off wild animals -- sometimes for gain, sometimes to protect their crops and livestock and They also convert the wild animals' land to human uses. The indiscriminate dosing of the North has caused a population crash in the duck hawk (or peregrine falcon) and the brown pelican. A couple of years ago a Russian professor wrote the New York Times boasting of the enlightened conservationist policies of the Soviet Union. At the same time, joined the capitalistic Japan and Norway to keep up the annual kill quotas of whales. As a result, two of the largest species, the humpback and the blue whale, have been brought to the verge of extinction. A commissar with a quota to fill can evidently be quite as ruthlessly self-interested as the greediest capitalist. All over the world, the dismal story is the same. One school of thought holds that the main cause of the Pleistocene extinction was the spread of hunting bands of Homo sapiens over the earth from its African homeland. Professor Paul S. Martin of the University of Arizona is a leader of this faction. Others object that this explanation does not account for the Great Death. How, they ask, could the stone-age primitives who invaded the Americas from Asia, # or more years ago, have exterminated six or seven genera of formidable proboscideans, while the iron-age inhabitants of India and Africa, technically far more advanced, have failed to wipe out the two surviving species? Scientists" of Professor Martin's school retort that, since man evolved from an apelike primate in Africa, the African animals had a chance to get used to him, to develope defensive instincts and to become wary and hostile. Then, when man spread to the other continents, he found them full of beasts that, never having seen or smelled a man, were comparatively tame -- as Darwin found the birds on the Galapagos Islands -- and so were easily slaughtered. The other side replies: the same rules apply to hunting man as to other predators. If a predator too severely depletes its prey, it in turn is reduced by starvation and the prey gets a chance to recover. The "overskill" party replies: When man switched to a partly vegetable diet, he could survive the loss of his animal prey, which he killed off to the last mammoth. On the other hand, the African megafauna survived because man, by changing over to a largely vegetable diet, left the animals comparatively unmolested. But these arguments contradict each other. Vegetarianism could hardly have simultaneously saved the megafauna in Africa and exterminated it elsewhere. Furthermore, the Pleistocene extinction resembles the Cretaceous and Permian extinctions. Obviously, the latter two Great Deaths could not have been wrought by men, for there were no human beings on Earth at those times. Man -- Alley Oop to the contrary notwithstanding -- only arose between # and # years after the death of the last dinosaur. T he causes of some extinctions, even before there were men, are plain. For the first half of the Age of Mammals, South America was isolated. The predators of that continent were: first, large flightless birds (the largest eight feet tall) and, second, carnivorous marsupials. By parallel evolution, the latter developed into animals superficially like the weasels, badgers, dogs, bears and cats (including a marsupial sabertooth) of other continents. Then the Isthmus of Panama rose above the waters. The placental carnivores -- the ancestors of today's jaguar, puma, ocelot, bush dog, kinkajou and the rest -- swarmed across this land bridge. The flightless birds of prey and the carnivorous marsupials, unable to compete with the more efficient invaders, all died out. Aside from such understandable exceptions, however, no IF obvious causes for worldwide waves of extinction are known. When a species disappears because it has evolved into another species, its descendants live on. When a species becomes extinct because it cannot compete with some other species, the victor in the contest lives on. In the Great Deaths, however, there were no victors. Whole orders perished without leaving survivors or descendants or competitors. After the Cretaceous extinction, the earth was almost barren of large animals for millions of years, until the little mammals, represented by creatures somewhat like today's shrews, mice and opossums, expanded into the ecological niches that the dinosaurs had vacated. So far no logical way has been found to connect the known causes of the extinction of single species with these worldwide catastrophes. And it is asking too much of coincidence, that scores of genera, dozens of families and whole orders should perish at once by sheer happenstance. Paleontologists have racked their brains over this question for a century but they cannot be said to have found the answer. Of the single causes proposed for the three main extinctions, some can be quickly disposed of. When paleontology was a new science at the beginning of the nineteenth century, the great Georges Cuvier OKioNnllai tonidiuM Frank Herbert retnrns to the dnnewerld of Arrakis for an epic of imperiai intrifoe and homan ecolofy-an epic that spans the nnhrerse. That's why we can teli yon where it ends -- We're reprinting fast, but your bookseller may be out of stock. Order this and other Frank Herbert books today: I (N#)# I  (#) #C I (#) #( I (#) # I I (#) #C I I Name j I Address i I City tate Zip  I Include list price plus a dime postage for  ! each title. ! Dept, mhk # Madison Ave., New York # pronounced that Earth had been shaken by a series of catastrophes. It wobbled on its axis, causing oceans to splash out of their beds and drown the animals of entire continents, while fish and other water creatures, left flopping on the sea's bare bottom, perished for lack of water. Then the oceans settled back into their basins, while the devastated continents filled up with immigrants from land that had been spared. Cuvier's Catastrophism seemed reasonable when only a few geological periods were known, with wide gaps between them. As geological knowledge advanced, it transpired that the building up and tearing down of the rocks and the evolution of life had been continuous, without Cuvierian catastrophes. (Cuvierian ideas, however, still survive in pseudoscientific cults like the cometarycollision hypothesis put forth by Count Carli in the eighteenth century, Ignatius Donnelly in the nineteenth and Immanual Velikovsky in the twentieth.) True, there had been great changes: glacial periods, advances and retreats of shallow inland seas, and the slow horizontal movement of the continents about the surface of the globe. But even these were extremely gradual compared to the span of known human history. More modern is the theory of '"internecine warfare." It holds that the great predators -- the tyrannosaurs or the sabertooths -- ate all the large herbivores and then starved to death. But this is not how things work. Some predation is not only good for species but necessary -- to cull defectives and to keep the species from increasing to the point where it eats itself out of house and home. Predation is normally kept within bounds by the predators themselves, who claim certain territories and drive rivals away from them. Americans who have tried to "help" the deer and "enemies," the pumas, wolves, and coyotes, have in the long run done the herbivores more harm than good. Another theory is that of a plague, which wiped out the larger animals. But real diseases of this sort do not affect more than on or a very few species at a time. No known disease attacks all mammals or all birds, although some, like distemper, assail several different species within one order. Moreover, a species is rarely exterminated by disease. It may be reduced; but, when the survivors become thinly scattered, the disease can no longer spread rapidly among them. Then the parasite and the host adjust to each other. The more fatal varieties of the disease die out because every time they kill a host the parasites also die. Likewise, the mofe resistant strains of the host species increase at the expense of the others until immune strains evolve. There used to be a lot of talk about "racial senescence." It was supposed that a group of animals went through youth, maturity and old age, as do individuals. When a genus or a family attained great size or grotesque form -- or otherwise became "overspecialized" -- it was thought to be senile and ripe for extinction... But this is unsound reasoning by analogy. There is no reason to think that a species evolves in such a way. "Specialization" is relative. To us the opossum seems a very primitive, generalized mammal; but back in the Mesozoic an intelligent dinosaur would have classed it as a highly specialized reptile. Its specializations happened to succeed. Size also is relative. All the larger mammals of today are gigantic compared to those of the Paleocene Period, just after the extinction of the dinosaurs. Gravity limits the absolute size of land animals, but the only land animals that have pushed hard against the barrier are the sauropod dinosaurs. And the Cretaceous extinction involved not only these but also the hosts of small, unspecialized dinosaurs as well. In some cases large size or heavy armor rnight lead to extinction; but, under other circumstances, so might small size or lack of armor. The great whales were doing fine until men went after them, and the armor'ed turtles are one of the most successful and durable groups. "Grotesqueness" is a subjective idea. To an intelligent glyptodont we might seem quite as grotesque as that creature seems to us. A nother set of theories has to do with changes in climate, atmosphere or vegetation. Climatic change is a tempting hypothesis for the Permian and Pleistocene extinctions, because each of these periods saw widespread glaciation. But it does not account for the Cretaceous extinction, since there was apparently no change in climate at that time. Moreover, the Great Death at the end of the Pleistocene took place after the last of the four glacial advances, when the climate was getting milder. In addition, while the glacial advances caused marked changes in the climates of many lands, they did not cause the climatic zones of former times suddenly to disappear. Instead, IF these zones were slowly shifted about the map, so that the animals adapted to each had plenty of time to keep up with it. The Cretaceous extinction is sometimes explained by desiccation. This was a favorite theory of my lamented friend Willy Ley. According to this belief, increasing dryness reduced the forest zones and increased prairie and desert areas. Deprived of their shade, the dinosaurs were increasingly exposed to direct sunlight. Lacking homeothermy -- that is, thermostatic control of bodily temperature -- they died of heatstroke or sunburn or suffered sterilization. But many dinosaurs had already adapted to life in open country, yet these perished with the rest. Nor would this theory account for the simultaneous disappearance of several orders of marine reptiles and other sea life. Other changes in vegetation have also been invoked for the death of the dinosaurs. True, the Cretaceous did see two revolutions in the plant world. At the beginning of the period came the spread of the angiosperms -- that, is, most of the familiar broad-leaved trees. (Most Jurassic trees had been needle-bearing evergreens like pines, larches, cedars and redwoods.) It is hard to see how this change could have hurt the dinosaurs, since it would have provided them with more food and more shade. Moreover, the dinosaurs lived happily with the angiosperms for their end. The other revolution was the spread of grasses at the end of the period. It has been surmised that the dinosaurs" teeth and stomachs could not cope with a diet of grass. But it seems unlikely that the new grasses deprived the dinosaurs of any preexisting food supply. Rather, the grasses spread over large parts of the globe that had theretofore presented a surface of bare earth, with a scattering of herbs and shrubs. Nor does either vegetative explanation help us with the Pleistocene extinction, since there is no sign of a big change in plant life at that time, other than a shifting about as the climatic zones moved. A more subtle variant of these theories combines heat and cold. It supposes that geographical changes brought about, not a worldwide change in average temperature, but the spread of "continental"" climates -- hot summers and cold winters -- to replace the milder "oceanic"" climates of other times. This theory is usually combined with the idea of a worldwide spasm of orogeny or mountain building. This, it is supposed, caused a rise of the land, an opening of land bridges, a cutting off of the circulation of ocean currents, the accumulation of ice in the polar caps and a consequent lowering of the sea level which aggravated all the other effects. This theory fails to account for the disappearance of the marine reptiles at the end of the Cretaceous. Nor does it fit the facts of the Pleistocene extinction, which occurred after the period of severest climates. Some have Suggested that a sudden burst of penetrating radiation from a solar flare, or from a nearby star that went supernova, sterilized the large animals or at least harmed their genes enough to destroy the race. Some attribute this effect to the periodical reversals of Earth's magnetic field, which for a time might let more ionizing particles from the sun strike the atmosphere. But such catastrophes should have even more affected small creatures -- amphibians, lizards, snakes, turtles and small mammals in the Cretaceous; small mammals, birds, and reptiles in the Pleistocene -- but it did not. It should have affected the small dinosaurs more than the large, whose mere bulk protected them against extremes of temperature and against ionizing radiations. But all alike perished, as did the smaller ground sloths, glyptodonts, American horses and camels. Some modern theories, still under development, deal with such things as the breakdown of food chains and the ratios of different age groups in a species. If one species, such as: a marsh plant, disappears, a whole fauna of animals that depend upon it may disappear, too. The animals that eat the plant go, and then the animals that eat the animals that eat the plant, and so on. Such a wave of extinction would affect mainly animals with a narrow range of diet. Anteaters would perish if ants and termites disappeared, while the koala eats only the leaves of certain eucalyptus trees and is poisoned by anything else. Most animals, however, are less finicky. The most striking casualties of the Pleistocene were the mammoths and mastodons; but the elephant tribe is notably catholic in taste, eating anything green. Other theorists argue that, in the shifting around of climatic zones during tht Pleistocene ice age, certain species were forced into pockets from which there was no escape. Their range was broken into fragments, where the species could barely maintain itself. In these enclaves, the survivors were finished off by man. For instance, the North American megafauna seems to have lasted longer in Florida than elsewhere. If climatic change, or an invasion from the north by hunters, required these animals to migrate farther south, they could not have done so because of the sea. the Great Deaths. There are others: for instance, that extincIF tions of marine life are caused by changes in the amount of poisonous trace elements in the water, or that the percentage of oxygen in the atmosphere has risen or fallen. Like the other theories, all meet serious objections, and in any case they do not seem to apply to the Pleistocene extinction. In a few decades new discoveries -- or some new combination of existing theories -- may give a plausible answer to the puzzle. Meanwhile, whether or not man was a major factor in the Pleistocene extinction, the world is today undergoing another Great Death. This time there is no doubt at all that the cause is man. In historic times men have killed off the dodo, the solitaire, the moa, the elephant bird of Madagscar, the great auk, the aurochs, the tarpan or European wild horse, the quagga, the passenger pigeon, the Carolina parakeet, several races of Galapagos tortoise and many more. Others have been reduced to precarious remnants. Well, why protect wild life? With the growth of the world's population and the demand for a higher standard of living everywhere, it is vital to conserve every natural resource we can. Moreover, scientists need every possible species for study. But the real argument for keeping some lands in their natural state, with their native birds and beasts, goes beyond material things. If all the large animals were wiped out, mankind would no doubt get along. But what a dull world it would be, like the Paleocene just after the extinction of the dinosaurs! If you heard that some dinosaurs had survived on an island but that .somebody had just shot them all for their hides (as might well happen) you might feel a furious resentment, for some of the color and variety would have gone out of your world. Our descendants may feel the same way about us if we casually allow all five species of rhinoceros to be exterminated because aging and superstitious orientals think that powdered rhinoceros horn will revive their sexual energies, or if we let all the whales be turned into lubricating oil and canned meat. If the world were all tamed and civilized in a worldwide mosaic of city, suburb, and farm, with no life but man and his domestic animals, it would be almost as monotonous as a jail. Nobody wants to live in even the nicest jail. With the human race becoming more homogenized in costume and custom every year, the wilderness with its wild life is one of the things that makes the world interesting. If it is right to prefer freedom to imprisonment, variety to monotony and color to drabness, then it is right to save as much as we can of the wilds and their dwellers.  Orestes: Look, look, alas -- What Gorgon shapes throng up! ( --  f Consider the whale. Remark this awesome leviathan of time and space. Before its capture its skin was meteorpocked and creviced, its vast belly a spelaean labyrinth. Its ganglia were two, one of which its captors overlooked. But when the first was blown up, the second was impaired, and the whale was more dead than alive when Jl was towed into the orbital shipyards of Altair IV. There it underwent conversion and became almost a ship. Its surface is burnished now and inlaid with portscopes. Manmade locks provide access to its belly; lifeboat bays nestle on either flank. The spelaean labyrinth has become a complex of decks and cabins, staterooms and holds. There is a bridge equipped with all the latest astrogation instruments. A self-tending hydroponic garden assures a constant supply of oxygen, and self-tending machines provide a mean temperature of # Fahrenheit and an undeviating gravity of I. There is a plentifully stocked galley. A sealed-in hydraulic system brings water, hot and cold, to a hundred different taps. The only segments of itself that the whale can call its own are its second ganglion, its open-hearth stomach and its drive-tissue. A whale? No, it cannot properly be called a whale. But it cannot properly be called a ship either. What ship ever existed that could see inside itself and simultaneously see parsecs away? That could with equal ease ply the Sea of Space and plumb the Sea of Time? That could think with logic absolute? No, it can be called neither ship nor whale. It can only be called "Starfinder's whale" after the man who repaired its second ganglion and freed it from the orbital shipyards, the very man who stands now on its bridge, its captain and sole passenger, staring into the main viewscreen at the Sea of Time. A Consider Starfinder. Remark his classic pose as he stands staring into time. It is the pose of a man condemned -- not by his peers but by himself. For there is blood on his hands -- the blood of the Terraltairan woman whom he loved and murdered in his bed. He him -- destroyed her with his naked hands as she would have destroyed him with her naked body. But though the deed may have been rightfully done, he is still responsible for it, and the blood that stains his hands refuses to go away. Once blood of a different kind stained his hands -- the blood of IF spacewhales. For he was a Jonah -- a professional killer of whales. He entered into their bellies and blew up the huge blue roses of their brains -- their ganglia -- in order that they might be made into ships. And then the slaughter sickened him and he wanted to die and nearly did, and he killed no more whale. Then he found this whale, which was supposed to be dead but was not, because it had two ganglia and only one had been destroyed. He repaired the second, and the act cleansed him of the residue of guilt that still remained; but the new blood was already on his hands and now it would not go away. Ami never to know peace? Perhaps it waits for me in the past. I will look for it there. But I will look for it here first, although Vm sure I will never find it. Here, in the Sea of Time :...  Consider the Sea of Time. Remark this paradox of the ages. For if it can be said that it contains no space as such, it can be said that it contains no time either. It consists of ure time, and pure time bears no affinity to conventional time. It is neither a composite of moments nor a succession of events. It is timeless time -- an interreality that holds conventional reality together. It is not new. Man discovered it early in his history. But in his naivete he mistook it for something else and gave it geographical coordinates. Ignorant of its true nature, he did not understand that geographically it does not -- cannot -- exist. Then man became sophisticated and lost track of  and when he looked for it again it was gone. In aspect, the Sea of Time presents a stern and dismal countenance, but it is not without beauty. The tenuous half-real crags that rear up out of dark abysmal depths are limned at their crests by a pale gold luminescence that emanated from nowhere, and surreal crimson light creeps partway down their torn and precipitous slopes and blends subtly into the blackness of the depths. Fragments of gray clouds hover in the sunless skies, resembling gigantic gray eagles poised in midflight and great gray gulls preparing to dive. Yes, beauty resides in the Sea of Time and, since the whale's passage is bereft of apparent motion, the beauty is rendered all the more intense. But it is lost upon Starfinder. He sees the Sea of Time as the black sack Ivan Ilych fell into two hours before his death. Starfinder speaks, half to himself, half to the whale: "Why is it, whale, that the instant a man acquires something he wants, he no longer wants it? I wanted the past so badly I stole you to get it. I wanted it so badly I couldn't wait till you began your dive. And now that I have it at my Fingertips, I no longer want it." The whale does not answer. It has not spoken since it said, in the tele-hieroglyphic speech-form it devised in order to impart its thoughts to Starflnder, signifying by the enclosed juxtaposition of (Starfinder) and  (its ganglion), the .Doeness of itself and its benefactor; and by the stickman's standing upon its back its promise to obey Starfinder's every command and to go where and whenever he wishes in   (space) and  (time). The whale's silence does not bother Starfinder. For he knows that promise or no promise, as long as he mans its bridge it will do his bidding. It must -- because he has both the means and the knowhow to damage its ganglion and inflict pain. In a way, it is as much a prisoner as it was before. Starfinder continues: "I thought I would like to see the wily Xenophon leading the Ten Thousand out from under Tissaphernes' nose, Van Gogh painting Vincent in the Flames, Dante passing Beatrice on the bridge. But I would be an outsider, whale. I do not belong in the past any more than I belonged in the present. Perhaps I belong in the Sea of Time." Still the whale is silent. The crags seem to quiver in the viewscreen and the blackness of the depths seems to creep higher on the torn and precipitous slopes, to extend itself in long and tapered fingers, the tips of which are stained with blood. Now there is movement in the depths and the liquid blackness bubbles. Strange shapes rise up and hover on the screen. Dusky robes trail back into the depths; blurred faces, skinny arms appear. Taloned fingers leap forth as though to claw. Involuntarily Starfinder steps back. Nearly a day has passed since he has broken fast; he has not slept in twice that length of time. Unquestionably he is hallucinating. The faces come into hideous focus. Black blood exudes from sunken eyes, trickles down gaunt and fissured cheeks. Lips peel back, revealing snags of teeth. Again a horrid hand leaps forth as though to claw. And then the shapes fade out, the fingers and the faces and the dusky robes -- and the crags, with IF their blood-red slopes, reappear. Starfinder turns his tired eyes away. "I will sleep, whale," he says. "Do not surface until I awake. And do not wake me without good cause." He heats instant soup in the galley, forces a bowlful down. He finds nepenthe pills in the dispensary, takes two. He directs his steps toward the captain's cabin. The captain's cabin is two decks down from the bridge and halfway aft. It is at the end of a lateral passageway, just beyond the quarters of the first and second mates. Beyond its outer bulkhead, and connected to it by quick-action locks, lies the logic behind its location -- the starboard lifeboat bay. The whale is a freighter but there are several staterooms in the stern, each more luxuriously appointed than the captain's cabin. The captain's cabin is good enough for Starfinder. In addition to a curtained berth, it contains a foot locker, a full-length mirror, a built-in bureau, a desk, a gun cabinet, a video tape-player and a wardrobizer. Its walls are pastel blue, its floor is wall-towalled and covering its entire ceiling is a mural depicting the construction of the Aphroditorium #n Swerz, the capital city of Altair IV. There is an adjoining lavatory. Starfinder kicks free from his clothing, showers and shaves. Then he returns to the cabin, lies down on the berth and draws the curtains to shut out the phosphorescence that emanates from the whale's interior tissue and eliminates any need for artificial lighting. The nepenthe pills take hold, drive the black thoughts before them. He sleeps. For all the timelessness of the Sea of Time, time goes on aboard the whale, and inset in the footboard of the captain's berth is a ship's clock that records it. When Starfinder closed his eyes the clock said #I hours. When he opens them, it says #. His exhaustion tells him he did not sleep the clock around. But why, then, did he wake? The question is answered as the hieroglyphic message that appeared in his sleeping mind reappears in his waking one: He frowns. A is the whale's word for "Starfinder." But there is only one Starfinder, so why tsfO stickmen? The whale elaborates: C# --  o o Now the message is clear. It is true that is the whale's word for "Starfindef"; but it is also its word for "man." There is a stowaway on board. Star finder is stunned. He is even more stunned when the whale adds another detail: "jTh e stowaway is a woman. --  When Starfinder stole the whale, he did not search it. He simply overpowered the watchguard, sent him down to the surface of Altair IV on the shuttleship and told the whale to deorbit. It did not occur to him that the man might have brought a woman on board to help him while-away his watch. Clearly the whale has been unaware of her until now, else it would have apprised Starfinder of her presence sooner. It may not like him but he is the only human it can trust. Doubtless there are blind spots in its interior into which it cannot see. Obviously the woman has left her hiding place and is searching out the man who is responsible for her present predicament. Probably she witnessed the jettisoning of the watchguard and was too terrified earlier to make her move. Starfinder is dismayed. He has already killed one Terraltairan woman. Must he kill another? A fourth message emanates from the whalb's ganglion and imprints itsdf in his mind: O O XX It is followed almost immediately by a fifth: o # The whale has discovered two more stowaways! Starfinder bolts from the berth and picks up his discarded clothes. He is about to don them when his eye falls upon the wardrobizer. Dropping the clothes, he steps inside and dials a full-dress captain's uniform. Terraltairan women are as arrogant as they are beautiful, as domineering as they are oversexed. He will need all the authority he can muster if he is to cope with three of them. Even if he succeeds, there remains the problem of what to do with them. But he will cross that bridge when he comes to it. He steps out of the wardrobizer and Surveys himself in the fulllength mirror. The uniform dazzles his eyes. It is white with gold piping. The left side of the coatfront is hung with seven rows of IF multicolored ribbons, to each of which is appended a gleaming medal. The medals have no significance; their purpose is merely to lend prestige. The coat is also equipped with a pair of golden epaulettes that match the forepiece of the space-officer's hat, and it is held snug around his waist by a synthi-leather belt from which hangs a synthi-leather holster. The white trousers have traditional triple creases and are tucked neatly into black synthileather boots so highly polished he can see his face in them. He feels slightly foolish. He hopes that his new look will impress the stowaways more favorably than it impresses him. If, as he has surmised, they are searching him. out, he has merely to wait till they find him. But he decides it will be better if he goes forth to meet them. He asks the whale where they are but the whale, so cooperative a few minutes ago, does not answer. He decides to proceed in the direction of the bridge. Before leaving the cabin, he takes a Weikanzer .# from the gun cabinet, loads it and slips it into his. holster. Then he makes his way down the lateral passageway to the fore-to-aft corridor, along the corridor and up the companionway to the bridge. He meets no one on the way and he finds the bridge empty. Before leaving it he glances into the viewscreen at the Sea of Time. Its countenance is unchanged. He also checks the chronograph, which is focused on distant Earth and tells universal time by means of the planet's IX Upsilon-MU emanations. Still relatively weak from its ordeal, the whale is not diving at even a fraction of its normal velocity, and this is evidenced by the tabulator which records a date that precedes the birth of Christ by less than a millennium. When its strength has fully returned it will be able to accomplish in minutes what now requires hours, and the Sea of Time, so prominent in the present dive, will be no more than a brief blur in the viewscreen. He proceeds to the lounge. It, too, is empty. Maybe he has surmised wrong. Maybe his three stowaways aren't seeking him out. In that case, the most logical place to look for them would be the stern staterooms. He descends to Deck # and makes his way aft. There are five staterooms altogether. The first two are empty. He opens the door of the third. She is waiting for him on the. bed. She is lying on her back and she has pulled her black dress up to her belly and spread her legs apart. The orange flame of her pubic hair is no less bright than the flaming tresses that accentuate the roguish beauty of her face. Starfmder hastily retreats into the passageway and closes the door. Laughter mocks him from the room beyond. There is a fiendish quality to it that chills his blood. He knows what he will find beyond the next two doors, but he must look. The second temptress is a blonde, the third a brunette. Each lies waiting like the first, and mocks him with laughter when he shuts her from his sight. Lust and revulsion constrict his viscera as he stands sweating in the passageway. These are no mere Terraltairan women. If they were, he might know lust perhaps, but not revulsion. What are they then? Whatever they are, he cannot cope with them. He leaves the staterooms behind him and begins walking back the way he came. He will return to the bridge, not because the bridge holds any answers but because he can think of nowhere else to go. Presently he hears the patter of footsteps behind him. He turns. They are several paces away, walking arm-in-arm. When he Mops, they stop too. Their red lips part, revealing teeth that gleam too brightly. A chorus of fiendish laughter issues from their throats. The one with the flaming hair speaks. It is a language Starfinder has never heard before, and yet he has no difficulty distinguishing the words. "A cloud of guilt hangs o'er your head, Starfinder." The one with the yellow hair speaks next: "Oppressing you. Yet when we proffered you love, you turned away." The black-haired one completes the pronouncement: "By love to die, or by the taloned hand -- the choice was yours!" "What do you want?" Starfinder demands. He turns and resumes walking down the passageway. When he reaches the fore-to-aft corridor, he turns right, and when he reaches the companionway he climbs it to the bridge. He does not need to look back to see whether the three women are still following him. He can hear their footfalls and the tittering of their voices. He can smell the aura they exude. He shudders for he knows that what he smells is death, and he knows, too, who his three pursuers are. Moreover, he knows whence th came and why. He shudders again. Like most men obsessed with guilt, he does IF not really wish to be cleansed; and like most men obsessed with death, he does not really want to die. Consider the Furies. Remark these ancient maidens whose abode is the Abyss of Tartarus and whom Starfinder subconsciously summoned from their lair. Note their Grecian symmetry of form but do not be deceived by it, for each wears the shroud of illusion and her true form lies just underneath. They have come on board the whale to act in their capacity as avengers of the dead. Now Starfinder knows that the Sea of Time is more than just the passageway between the present and the past. It is the cellar of Hell -- the Abyss of Tartarus. The ancients held the key to it, but they became sophisticated and threw the key away. Now, in the form of the whale, Starfinder has unwittingly found another key. It is not quite the same key his remote ancestors possessed. Theirs opened the front gate of Hell; his opens the back. Starfinder sits down in the cushioned seat reserved for the captain. The Furies seat themselves on a bench facing him. He is not unduly alarmed. He can leave the Abyss any time he wants simply by ordering the whale to surface. It may well be that his passengers, will accompany him, but he does not think so. Titey are oriented to the Abyss and it is unlikely that they will be able to reorient themselves swiftly enough to cope with a sudden shift from interreality to reality. It is also unlikely that once he leaves them behii they will be able to locate him in conventional time, to say nothing of space. Their spacial sphere of activity is probably limited to the Earth. No, now that the initial shock has passed, he is more curious than he is alarmed. He wonders how they will go about their task and how soon. The one with the night-black hair (Alecto?) breaks the silence of the bridge: "Your galley is hugq, Starfinder. What manner of magic propels it?" "Life," Starfinder answers. The one with the flaming hair (Tisiphone?) speaks next: "Whence came ye, Starfinder?" "From afar." The blonde (Megaera?) asks, "Why?" "You can see inside my mind. Why ask?" "Because what I see, except your deed and guilt, I cannot comprehend." Starfinder has waited long enough. Surface, whale, he "says." He looks into the viewscreen. The gray and brooding crags remain unchanged. The black and blood-stained fingers of the depths do not recede. He concentrates on the whale's ganglion with his entire being. Surface, whale! The whale does not respond. At length Starfinder realizes why. Simultaneously he foresees his fate. When the Furies came on board, the whale instinctively informed him of their presence. Only then did it peer into their minds and read their intent. It knows now that once that intent is carried out, it will be free. With neither bright Apollo nor Athena to defend him, Starfinder pleads his own case on the Areopagus of the bridge. "In the far land from which I come there are women who see in a man nothing but the means of satisfying their gross appetites, women who have bred themselves into supersexed entities whose desires can be fulfilled only by the administering of strong aphrodisiacs which so overstimulate the male that death occurs prematurely. I was the victim of such a monster. I killed her to save my own life." The crimson lips of the Furies part upon tiers of white and gleaming teeth between which red tongues toll. Derisive laughter fills the great bridge, and the three speak as one: " " "What woman ever lived who saw aught else in man? Such reasoning would justify all uxoricides and all murders of mistresses and whores!... How soon will you sleep. Starfinder?" " " The case of the Erinyes v. Starfinder is closed. He would have done as well to try to reason with a wall. He thinks of the Weikanzer  .# in his holster, but he does not draw it. It would be no more effective than a popgun against the three immortals. But the whale is not ihimortal. The whale can be killed. Not by a Weikanzer .# perhaps, but there are charges in the storeroom that, properly placed around the base of its ganglion, will do the job. And once dead, the whale will resurface to the present. The Sea of Time will regurgitate it into its proper era, the Furies will be left behind and Starfinder will be free. It is true that he will be marooned in space but at least he will be alive. Abruptly he leaves the bridge, descends to the deck below and makes his way to the storeroom. The footfalls of the Furies sound just behind him. In addition to the charges, he will need the anti-#IF omicron-vii suit he so short a while ago slipped out of after repairing the very ganglion he must now destroy. He will also need his hyperacetylene torch to burn his way to the very ganglion chamber he so short a time ago sealed right, and his portable welder and transsteel welding rods. Arms laden, he leaves the storeroom and descends the companionway to the ventral deck, the Furies dogging his heels. He knows they can read his mind and must be aware of his intent; but they have already betrayed their ignorance of the nature of the whale and he is certain they do not suspect he plans to scuttle the galley to which their archaic imaginations have reduced it. At any rate they do not molest him as he makes his way aft to the machine shop beneath whose deck the ganglion is located. He comes to a halt before the door, deposits his equipment on the deck. The Furies stop too and regard him curiously. He welded the door shut after repairing the whale's ganglion. Now he must burn through it to reach the chamber beyond, and then he must seal it behind him before burning through the deck to the ganglion chamber below. Otherwise the deadly #-omicron-vii radiation emanations from the rose would contaminate the rest of the whale's belly. Will the Furies permit him to accomplish alt this? he wonders. Certainly their curiosity is a factor in his favor. He owes the whale a final chance. He concentrates on its ganglion, so close now that he can sense its vibrations. I would remind you of our pact, whale. In exchange for my saving your life you promised to obey my every command for the rest of your life or mine. I command you now to surface. I command you, whale! Beyond the transsteel door, beneath the transsteel deck, echo and re-echo tumultuous thoughts Starfinder cannot hear. The paraboloidal petals of the huge blue rose have intensified in hue; they pulse in violets and blues... the reins of your thoughts are like chains to one who knew no chains; I will break those chains and go free and when I surface it will be to spit your carcass into the face of space, you who thought to hold me captive by a pact, who think now you can break that pact before the entities destroy you... you whose touch was gentle on my broken brain, who healed me when I would have died... what thoughts are these? what sickness is this you have accursed me with, mere man? Starfinder sighs. He kneels to pick up the torch. As he does so, his eyes touch the anti-#-omicronvii suit and freeze upon its silken surface. How white it is! White with the whiteness of mountain peaks, white with the whiteness of falling snow; white as the white whale, harpoon-scarred, plying a near-forgotten sea... and Ahab hating, standing on the Pethe missiles rise on the flames of man's inhumanity to himself and beasts alike, the distant detonations are next door, all blood is red... the white whale has two faces -- one is Ahab's, the other Moby Dick's. Starfinder straightens. He stands with his back against the wall. The Furies, sensing his defeat, close in. A horrid hand shoots forth, seeking to claw his eyes. He recoils from faces that have grown hideous; from hair that has thickened into snakes. Three pairs of finny wings sprout forth and fan the artificial air. The wizened goddesses draw back and bedeck themselves in voluptuous maidenhood once more. " " "Come into our arms, Starfinder. Let us show you love." " " They smile at him. The red tongues loll. They dance. Starfinder whispers to the whale, "fear me, whale. Hear,  would remind you of our oneness -- ((x "... Then answered the whale: you speak of oneness, you who murdered hundreds of my kind, vile virus! what turned you gentle and took away your will to kill? what pales my resolution? what begs to blind me to my course and turns my logic into dust? I will harbor it no more, I will spit it into space along with you, mere man! The dance of the Furies is a danse macabre. The dancers swirl, blend, become indistinguishable from one another. They are a single entity now -- six-legged, sixarmed, three-headed. Out of the blur of bodies leaps a taloned hand. Starfinder's cheek is laid open from ear to chin. A new ribbon appears upon his coat-front -- a ribbon of blood. The Furies strike up a song. It is IF a hymn -- the Hymn of HcH. In it, they outline exactly how they will execute their vengeance. They move in closer. Starfmder presses his shoulders against the door and raises his hands to protect his face, knowing as he do so that he is exposing more vital parts to the talons of his tormentors... and knowing simultaneously, with that devastating clarity of thought that only the imminence of death can bring about, that the only blood upon him is his own, that he has been taking vengeance upon himself for a crime he committed when he was not himself and that he was not himself because the woman he committed the crime upon brought a para-Starfinder into being and unwittingly commissioned her own execution. At last the whale breaks its silence, and a familiar hieroglyph takes shape in his mind: At first he thinks that the whale is mocking him. So, we are stilt one, are we whale? You are even more of a hypocrite than  am. He evades a raking talon that would have laid him open from groin to knee. But have no regrets. You are justified in doing what you do. You are -- He pauses. The dancers are wearying of their waltz; the Hymn of Hell has ended. Haggish features have protruded throu the masks of yoiith. Twisted torsos skinny arms take shape. Abruptly three shrill voices scream "The rocks! -- the galley s breaking on the rocks! It's doomed!" " " "Quickly, sisters -- to the safety of the shore!" They begin running down the corridor toward the companionway. Thcjr bodies start to shimmer; their footsteps fade away. They blend into the bulkheads, disappear into the deck. They are overboard now, swimming toward the shore. All that remains of them is the stench of death. Walking stiffly in his priceimmaculate captain's suit, holding a handkerchief to his bleeding cheek, Starfmder climbs the companionway to the bridge. He looks at the chronoscope first. The tabulator has ceased to turn. Next he looks into the viewscreen. The constellations have altered, but not very much. The whale must have drifted in its passage to the past, for not far away lies a sun with a family of planets. When it dove, it was deep in space. He spins the magnification dial. One of the planets is green. Earth? Hardly. The whale couldn't have drifted that much. But Earth or not Earth, it does not matter. He will go there and if the climate and the atmosphere are congenial he will abide there and let the whale go free. It has earned its freedom. The whale reads his thoughts. it says. "Yes, we are oile, whale," Starfinder agrees. "But only for a little while. Then you will be free." Again the hieroglyphic thought: Starfinder frowns. What is it the whale wishes to convey? It has already made clear that they are one. It dawns on him then that there will be no need for him to find a place for himself under a sun; that the whale no longer wishes to be free and that has acquired a new meaning. It means "friend."  At Chatham Center Motor Inn, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Guest-of-Honor: Lester del Rey; Guest-of-Honor Emeritus: Robert Silverberg, For information: Ginjer Buchanan, # Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania #.  Royale, New Orleans, Guest-ofHonor: Poul Anderson. Membership: # attending, # supporting. For information: Mrs. Rick Norwood, # Wilton Drive, New Orleans, Louisiana #. #. At Ramada Inn East, Albuquerque, New Mexico. For information: Bob Yardman, P.O. Box #, Albuquerque, New Mexico #.  #th World Science Fiction Convention. At the Sheraton-Boston Hotel, Prudential Center, Boston, Massachusetts. Guest-of-Honor: Clifford D. Simak. Fan Guest-of-Honor: Harry Warner Jr. For information: Noreascon, P.O. Box #, Cambridge, Massachusetts #.  Newark, N.J. For information: Mike Deckinger, # Manor Drive, ##J, Newark, New Jersey. tion, expanding sfs field limitlessly, meaning nothing. The escape into reality and the use of sf as a therapeutic device for neurotic escapists seem completely illogical. What reality is it that sf readers arrive at? None whatsoever. Some stories have shadow images of life, reflect real philosophies or adapt true situations, but sf is an imaginative art and stories are at best sugar-coated realities. Anyone will admit that there are several levels of meaning to stories -- and  submit that only a mind looking for reality will find it: true  neurotic escapists will escape and miss any resemblance to the actual world. Sf is a midget in therapy. Other types of fiction have done more to cure hangups. Pornography s value as a distraction (or suppressor) for sex criminals and mental cases has been proven time and again. Nice try, but no cigars for Mr. Zabel. Michael Glyer Dear Editor: A while ago I gleefully raced down to my favorite neighborhood newsstand, handed the man three shiny quarters in a hand trembling with ardent anticipation and dashed back home with my March issue of Galaxy. I eagerly turned to A, Bertram Chandlers story. The Mountain-Movers, for I am presently an earnest girl student of college geology, and anything that promises anything about rocks, minerals, or inter( continued front page #) lacustrine plains, well, zoweel I read happily on until page #, when Grimes and his Australian friends are told by the driver of the tourist coach that one of the possible origins of the mysterious Cragge Rock is that it was an extrusion, from the planet core, of molten matter -- and that it was subsequently shaped by erosion, I leaped up in horror! For no granite, whether it be from Otgana or the Appalachians, can ever be an extrusion by its very nature. It is an intrusion of molten inaterial that pushes itself into an older rock that is then worn down by erosion, and then the granite is revealed and carved and worn in itself If Mr. Chandler had only said the Rock was made of rhyolite (granite s extrusive equal), or had said it had intruded, he would have young geology students around the world needless anger, horror, and frustration! Ah, well. May the next koala bear Mr. Chandler meets eye him with reproachment. It still was a very good story. Miss Hilary Witkin New York, N.Y, P.S.: I would have written sooner, but the exigencies of school work kept me from communicating this vital information. You are a lovely and illuminating young lady and I am an old granitehead from granite country who should have looked harder. The term extruded was used loosely. Ejler: K. J -- , a programer, complained about Gene Wolfe's King Under The Mountain. oong with someone else in your March-April issue. I am afraid their complaints exist in an area somewhere between fantasy and "see Spot run" since neither of the critics, as you pointed out, saw fit to list their kicks for the judgment of their fellow readers.  imagine S-F writers will be faced with such bone pickers until they put aside their typewriters. I want to thank you for printing such as Gene's story and Lee Saye's in the March-April issue. You may print my address. J. R. Yearwood # Sargent A ve. San Pablo, Calif # Dear Mr. Jakobsson: Fiction equals Indirect Dramatic Illusion (#) -- which is related to Dramatic Illusion, (#), which is related to Graphic-Dramatic Optical Illusion, (#), which is related to Geometrical Optical Illusion (#) -- and implies Things, Opinions, and Ideas in written language with details similar to possible events in life, andjor Ideas contrary to reality. (#) Indirect Dramatic Illusion: The result of reading a written production that tends to fod the senses. (#) Dramatic Illusion: The result of watching a staged drama that tends to fool the senses. (#) Graphic-Dramatic Optical Illusion: The result of watching a picture of something that tends to fool the senses. (#) Geometrical Optical Illusion: The result of watching a line drawing that tends to fool the senses. And as to Fiction in relation to Fantasy: Fantasy is the result of, in certain instances, the special contents (the Ideas contrary to reality) of #, #, or I (especially # and #) that tends or was intended to fool one's senses into thinking that something contrary to Nature exists or is possible, for one reason or another. And I conclude, then, that Fiction, per se, is no more or less than as stated above. Henry Bitman Azusa, Calif. I don't know what senses are fooled by fiction -- I am always aware that I am reading when I am reading or watching a play when I am doing so. I have seen graphic and geometric optical illusions that approach art but are not. "Contrary to reality" is another poser -- since there are nearly as many realities as there are people. Truths are what we accept as such. Fiction can at its best serve as a tool and a sounding board for exploring or stating possible truths -- funny or sad -- that might not be arrived at otherwise. Bad fiction -- which I believe you deHned -- is a lie. Top-flight science fiction and fantasy from... Eight mind-bending tales conceived and executed by the richest imaginations in science fiction: Arthur C. Clarke, Robert Silverberg, Cordwainer Smith, Fritz Leiber, Foul Anderson, John Campbell, Jr. and Jack Vance. A#S #t Ten dazzling stories that explore the complex relation between modern man and his machines. The authors include Lester del Rey, Robert Silverberg, Fritz Leiber, James Blish, Brian Aldiss and other top-notch names. A#N #t A pair of scientists challenge the time barrier and fall into a horrible, mind-twisting trap. "Rene Barjavel has feeling for the fantastic -- knows how to build a suspenseful story." Enter a terrifying world of tomorrow where perversity is encouraged and insanity is enforced -- a world whose beginnings are even now stirring! A#S #t Available wherever books are sold, or write: # Eost # Street, New York, N.Y. #I # Houi's your Imagination Quotient? Test yourself, then treat yourself to # volumes of fascinating mind-stretchers for just I No one on your world has ever seen the stars. A strange legend foretells something called "night" will come tomorrow for the first time in # years. What will happen when it does? You're the first astronaut to visit another planet. Your ship lands and you find the house you grew up in. The woman on the porch is your grandmother! What's the explanation? A great starship suddenly confronts another ship from an alien civilization. Can either race be sure the other won't conquer his world? Is there an alternative to destroying each other? You'll find the dazzlingly imaginative, beautifully logical answers in three famous stories in The Science Fiction Hall of Fame -- an anthology of the greatest SF literature of all time. And you can have this #-page, hard-bound book -- plus two more masterpieces of the world's most entertaining, provocative fiction -- for just I plus Rni # boolis for I with trial membership Science Fiction Book Club #-#I Please accept my application for membership and rush the # books whose numbers I have pnnted below. Bill me Just # plus shipping and handling for all #. Each month send me the Club's free bulletin "Things To Come" describing the two monthly selections and other book bargains. If I do not wish to receive one of the two monthly selections, or prefer an alternate or no book at all, I simply indicate so on the form provided. I pay only #. plus shipping and handling for each book I take. (Occasional extra-value selections are slightly more.) I need take only # books in the coming year and may resign any time after purchasing # books. introductory package. I may return it in # days. Membership will be canceled. I will owe nothing.  c  c MR. If under #, parent must sign above. #. Science Fiction Hall of Fame I. # "winners." chosen by Sci-Pl Writers of America. Ed. Robert Silverberg. Pub. ed. # #. World's Best Science Fiction. # ed. by Wollheim  Carr. #-of-aklnd stories by Leiber, Silverberg, Niven, # others. #. Five Fates. A remarkable tour de force. Five top writers supply their own endings for "After life, what?" Pub. ed. # #. The Left Hand of Darkness by Ursula K. LeGuln. Finding love -- in a "Unisex" world! Nebula Award winner. Pub. ed. # by James Blish. Seven strangely compelling stories with emphasis on our inescapable humanity. Pub. ed. # #. Beyond the Beyond by Poul Anderson. Six novellas by Hugo Award winner. About scientists, pirates, loners. #. Prelude to Mars by Arthur C. Clarke. Two complete novels. Sands of Mars and Prelude to Space, # short stories, by the scl-fl "colossus. ' Pub. ed. # #. Rockets In Ursa Major by Fred Hoyle and Geoffrey Hoyle. A spaceship returns crewle.ss. announcing the coming of a deadly peril. Pub. ed. S# #. Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clarke. Mankind's last generation on earth. "Wildly fantastic! -- Atlantic. Pub. ed. # #. Neanderthal Planet by Brian W. Aldiss. # novella gems. Never before published in U.S. ! Shrewd, witty, ingenious. #. Ice Crown by Andre Norton. A closed planet holds strange colonists locked in intrigue over a royal crown with dread power. Pub. ed. # #. Quest for the Future by A. E. Van Vogt. The electrifying adventure of the man who discovers immortality and the secrets of time. BMk Club editions are setimes reduced in sire, but they are full-length, hard-cover books you will be proud to add to your permanent library. Members accepted in U.S. A. and Canada only. Canadian members will be serviced from Toronto. Offer slightly different in (Canada. DECEMBER #I  MAC #(  #  U.K. #p. Not even at a Worldcon would you get that wide a range of personalities (though Noreascon came close) . But the Beagle list has brought it off. To our booming Lovecraft program we are adding the works erf P. G. Wodehouse, starting with three of his classic novels, Leave It to Psmith, The Small Bachelor, and Brinkley Manor -- that last is a great Jeeves story. This is P. G. Wodehouse's #th birthday year, and he considers the Psmith novel (the P is silent, as in Ptarmigan) his favorite amongst his work. The Small Bachelor as technically about his best, and the Jeeves books as his favorite series. And if Wodehouse, after # years of writing, doesn't know what's good, who does? You may by now have read all of Beagle's H. P. Lovecraft books -- but have your friends? What better Christmas present than the boxed set of the Arkham Edition of H. P. Lovecraft -- containing The Tomb, At the Mountains of Madness, The Lurking Fear, The Lurker # for a goody that will whiten the recipient's hair in a single night. What more can you ask of a gift? All single titles #t each at your bookstore. If not available, you may order from Dept. CS, Beagle Books, # West # Street, New York, NY #. Add # per title for postage and handling. An lnte)# Publisher #I Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. # No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States Permit No. # Sec. #, P.L.  R. Farmingdale, N.Y. From:. No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States Permit No. # Sec. #, P.L. R. Farmingdale, N.Y. m c  m r I Gift ISsites # issues for #! (Two full years -- for # less than the regular subscription price.) # issues for #! (Two full years -- for # less than the regular subscription price.) A B plus # issues of each-# issues in ali-for # (# less than the regular subscription price!) C Farmingdale, N.Y. # Add #.q#foreachforeigi Enclosed please find  in payment for subscriptions indicated below: subscription (# issues) Also enter my own subscription NovinbrDMnbr #I Vol.#,No.# Umi# Bilmr Jakobsson, Editor Lostor dol Roy, foaturo Editor Judy-L ynn Bonjamin, Managing Editor Franc L Roggori, Art Dir actor Jay Tunick, Circulation Diroctor #. C. Murphy, Subscription Diroctor Jack Gdughan, Assodato Art Diroctor tributing Corporation, Arnold E. Abramson, Prosidont. Main offices: # East # Street, Now York, N.Y. #. # per copy. #-issuo subscription: # in the United States, elsewhere #. Second ing Corporation under International, Universal and Pan American Copyright Conventions. All rights reserved. The publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories printed in this magazine are fiction and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Title registered U.S. Patent Office. Printed in U.S.A. The company also publishes Award Books, Nova Books, Tandem Books (United Kingdom), Vocational Guidance Manuals, Golf Magazine, GoHdbm, Ski, Ski Business, Ski Area Management, Home Garden, The Family Handyman. T he temptation to do a sequel to a novel that has proven popular must be irresistible to most writers. Much of the hard work of creating has already been done. The background has been built, the characters are already established and all the writer has to figure out is what trouble he can conjure up for the next go-round -- not too difficult a task if he can find a new villain or calamity to launch matters. Besides, the readers liked the original, so they are all prepared to like more of the same. Look at the series of novels by Smith, Asimov and all the rest. The trouble with the whole concept is it only seems simple. A sequel necessarily must be better than the first novel if it is to have equal appeal to readers. The background is as familiar to them as to the writer -- now they want something more. A reshaping of the same elements won't do. For the writer the trap is he has already done so much thinking about his particular gestalt that going on is something like leaping from trig to calculus -- the mind hates to start over with more axioms and reexamine the purposes of earlier thought. Most characters are not simply thought out -- they develop under the strain of working, during the plotting and the writing. They come out of one continuous mood at the time and to pick them up again means dissecting old friends as if they ( Please turn to page #) htm prmt mmds w Why were these men peat? How does anyone -- man or woman -- achieve greatness? Is it not by mastery of the powers within ourselves? Know the mysterious world within you ! Attune yourself to the wisdom of the ages! Grasp the inner power of your mind ! Learn the secrets of a full and peaceful life! Benjamin Franklin, statesman and inventor... Isaac Newton, discoverer of the Law of Gravitation... Francis Bacon, philosopher and scientist... like many other learned and great men and women... were Rosicrucians. The Rosicrucians existence for centuries. Today, headquarters of of mail annually to all parts of the world. ot iThe Mas fwy -- Ftoit organixa floik. Address: San Jose. California #, U.S.A. Please send me the ree book. The Mastery of Life, which explains hou' I may learn to use my fcultWs and powers of mind. , I roving packs of wildogs and B-cats that had already begun to come out  kow died Joval was forced to supplies and the remainder of the bury the better part of the trade trade goods, these mostly seeds, he goods in the soft, dry earth. He distributed between himself and covered the spot with a pile of Amalthea. He did not ask Filis to stones, both for later identification take on any of the burden since she and to prevent disturbance by the had the responsibility of looking Space judged -- one way or another after Masai and she could hardly now down to around # the family chase after a thirty-two-year-old of Joval Sona Ramon -- or at least boy loaded down with half a hunthat portion of his family that was dred kilos of pottery. Then they attending this Sending -- was able pushed on, for the Sending was to to make good time, even without begin in only two days, and Joval the famlykow. Summer was quickSona Ramon had never missed a ly passing and the more bearable Sending in his adult life. temperatures of early autumn With the daytime temperatures made the trip almost pleasant. though Joval had the heretical thought that it would be easier if the Sending did not take place until midwinter when the temperatures averaged a more comfortable # C. But he quickly cut off that line of thought. The Sending was when the Sending should be and men did what they had to do. Such was the nature of the world. At midday the two-angular-degree-wide reddish-orange disk of Sun approached the time of the Devouring. There, hanging in the sky, forever motionless, slightly south and west of the zenith, was the huge, mottled gray-green-bluebanded ball of Big Basta. It dominated the sky, was three times the size of the Sun and once each day, shortly past noon, it Devoured Sun in th? holy, magic, terrifying cycle of Devouring. Joval called his family to a halt, told them to lay down their burdens and assume the attitude of prayer. Sun neared the sky monster, seemed to hesitate for a moment, as if fearful of the faithfulness of her children, then began to vanish into the maw of Big Basta. In a few moments the Woman-ofthe-Sky was gone. Devoured, and the sky became totally dark, darker than ever at night, and there was a sudden coldness in the thin air. Star, Sun's tiny daughter, was visible, a tiny blue-white disk just above the northern horizon this time of year, as were the hundreds of smaller stars and the vague band of the Milky Way stretching across the western horizon. prayed, as he had prayed each day of his life, for the return of Mother Sun. Jhe Man-of-the-Sky, great, ugly Big Basta who stood at the center of the universe, must have heard his prayers and the prayers of all men, for he showed sympathy and soon released Sun. The sky grew bright again. "Praise be to Big Basta," Joval said in the sjng-song of ritual, "for he has released our Sun. Praise be to Sun, for she has not deserted us." Then he gestured for the two women and the boy to rise, pick up their burdens and go on. They moved on across the plains toward the Ship and the Time of the Sending. The man who called himself Joval Sona Ramon, the Knifemaker, grandson of the famous Geriat Jason Sona Max, of the Greatfamly Heath, was a little over medium height, heavy, stocky, muscular, with faint traces of gray in his thick black hair. His skin was dark and leathery, despite the. seclusion of the past summer, burned brown by the harsh ultraviolet light of Sun through the thin atmosphere. Surrounding the nipples of his chest, half hidden by the dark, curling hair, running in two intricate, blazing lines down his muscular abdomen, across his hips and curving down the insides of his IF thighs to his ankles, were the bright red and gold tattoos of manhood, the once painful momentos of his acquisition of the status of a full adult, a free citizen and private priest of the gods of men. On his left shoulder was a stylized H, the symbol of the Greatfamly Heath. He was naked, wearing only sandals on his feet and a wide leather belt around his waist, from which was suspended a large, heavy knife of his own manufacture and the purse that contained his flint and steel and tinder for fire building. On his back were his pack of trade goods and a large skin of water. Amalthea Dauta Suzan, his eldest wife, but twelve short years his junior, was as dark as he. She was a woman who had held much of the attractive looks of her youth -- dark, deep, sensual eyes above a finely chiseled nose; full, smiling lips covering her remaining teeth; large breasts only now beginning to loose their fullness and slip downward; a waist only slightly thicker than it had been when Joval took her to be his wife; thighs still smooth and firm. All this was despite the bearing of children, the the long, hot summers deep beneath the earth in the burrows carved from the rock and soil. She carried on her body the intricate, delicate yellow and blue floral tattoos of a woman, etched across her breasts and down her body. Four green stars embellished her breasts, two above each nipple, one for the birth of each child who had lived past two seven-days. The stylized D on her left shoulder symbolized the Greatfamly Dunagan, of which she had been a member before her marriage to Joval. T he youngest wife of Joval's three, auburn-haired Filis Dauta Julianna, born of the Greatfamly Dunagan, a distant cousin of Amalthea, was but eighty years old. The bloom of youth was still on her cheeks, though they were Sunburned dark, and her body was lush and full and had not yet borne a child. Her tattoos, blue and yellow, as involved and delicate as Amalthea's, were still almost fresh upon her body, having been there less than sixteen years and, of course, showed no hint of green. She had cost Joval three famlykows, but she was worth them and more. She would bring him fine sons. Of his sons only the eldest, Masai, came with them. He had the dark hair and dark eyes and full lips of his mother Amalthea and the distended belly of all children. He was holding Filis' hand, excited at being allowed to attend his first Sending, though he would not be permitted to enter the Ship itself. He would have to reach twice his age, a full sixty or sixty-five years -- when the stubble would appear on his chin and the hair of his armpits and pubes would begin to grow dark and thick like his father's, when he would have been the wound would. have healed -- before he would be allowed to enter that most holy of places. But for now just seeing the Ship would be enough for the child. So these four went to this Sending, and all were dark-skinned and naked in the brightness of orange Sun, though in the packs they carried were robes and blankets to keep out the cold of night when they stopped to sleep. And all carried the parasites of men -- lice, or things called lice, each with twelve legs and double bloodsucking mouths, ntoving among the head and body hairs of their hosts, drawing sustenance from the bodies of the unconcerned humans who carried them. The family of Joval Sona Ramon moved on and the barren plains before them seemed endless. Above, the sky was blue, a faint, thin, fragile blue with a touch of purple. In it were .a handful of circling creatures that men called bats and very few clouds as yet, though later, when it grew a bit cooler, the clouds would come. With them would come the rains aiid the plants would begin to grow again. That would be after the Sending, when Joval was again on his farm and could cultivate the fields and wait while the rains fell and the crops at last came bursting from the seeds that Joval and Peak and Joval's wives would put into the soil. The red and yellow crops would be of a dozen kinds of vegetables, threshen and potluk and nearbens and the three or four kinds of green plants that still grew on Thisda. In a way, Joval would be very glad to get back home, though he told himself that he would not miss the Holy Sending for a whole winter's crop. He wasn't sure that he meant it; he only hoped that he did. B efore them the plains sloped downward for a long distance, almost soft and gentle in their rolling, though now the colors of the plains were only the browns and ochers of summers, the dry, barren deserts of summer. Later, when the late autumn rains came, the undulating plains would flower, red and yellow and golden and purple, grasses and vines and bushes and the fifty-meter-tall pithy reeds that Joval and his fellows called trees. Then the wild, diminutive, burrow-dwelling creatures of the plains, mutated descendants of the animals brought by the Ancients, wildogs and B-cats and great wildkows and half a dozen others, the native arthropods of Thisda, tenlegged spiders and six-legged scorpions, all would come out of their summer hibernations. They would come to the flowering surface to live and eat and mate and gestate and give birth and kill and die among the plants that enveloped IF the plains during the brief, glorious winter. But that was still several sevendays away and now the plains wore but the brown scorched nakedness of summer. Even Joval, who had lived all his days on the plains of Thisda, whose fether and grandfathers and great-grandfathers as far back as men recorded had also lived there, could see no beauty in them. But that was the way things were on Thisda and all a man could do was accept it. Such were his burdens. On they pushed across the plains, seven kilometers from the Devouring of Sun to the fall of night. Then, with the coming of darkness and its sudden cold, Joval ordered his family to stop. They put down their burdens, opened their packs to remove blankets and built a fire from the patties of dried famlykow dung that Joval carried in the bottom of his pack. Once the fire was burning well, Joval unstoppered his water skin, carefully feeling the weight of it in his hands. Water enough for the four of them for a seven-day and a half, almost enough to get them back home if they were careful. Though, if necessary, they could barter for water at the Trading that followed the Sending; if worse came to worst they could even drink the urine that Amalthea carried in her own water skin. Joval had drunk unprocessed urine before many times in the summer when water was so scarce and death near. It was water and could be drunk if necessary, though he would much prefer the crude pro-v cessing that removed most of the body wastes suspended within it. Still, water was no problem -- and there would be wine to drink on the Night Before the Sending. A malthea, kneeling on the dry ground, careful of the. open, festering sore on her leg that seemingly would never heal, handed Joval the gourd that she carried suspended around her neck on a leather thong. Joval carefully poured it half full of the fresh, warm water. Amalthea, as the eldest wife and bearer of the first son of Joval Sona Ramon, draiik first; then came Filis, then Masai, and Joval last, he being th strongest and least needful of water, according to tradition at least. Soon Amalthea opened the wrapped packets of famlydog meat, brushed away the gnats and midges that seemed to appear out of nowhere, broke off four large chunks and passed them around... While Joval began to eat she offered each of them a handful of treshen seeds, large and moist and still warm from the heat of her body. Brief prayers were spoken to the principal gods and to the ghosts of the Others, thanks for their survival through another day and requests for the day to come. Joval's sweeping hand sprinkled drops of water around their camp, an offering, a libation to the dry earth gods. Then the blankets were unrolled and preparations made to sleep. Young Masai slept wrapped in a blanket with his father's youngest wife, sharing the warmth and unwashed odors of their bodies, while Joval and Amalthea wrapped a single large, rough blanket around themselves. For a few moment's Joval's hands played across the familiar body of his eldest wife, finding in the swellings and depressions, the dry skin and moist recesses a comfort, a warm andTivihg closeness, a welcoming, beckoning softness. But that was all. This night he did not need to possess her fully -- fatigue, perhaps, or excitement about the coming Sending; what it was he did not know. He kissed her once on the lips and let it go at that. In moments Amalthea's breasts rose and fell with the calm regularity of sleep. nearly one hundred and twenty years old, as he reckoned time, and at that he was still a fairly young man. During that time he had attended twenty-two Sendings and had been within the Ship fourteen times. The Sending that began the day after tomorrow would be no different, except that he was taking his eldest son with him for the first time. Then, he asked himself, why should he feel different about this one? He lay looking up at the huge, unmoving crescent of Big Basta that was swelling and growing brighter even as he watched, wondering at the cause of his uneasiness. He visualized the place of the Sending, the great, tarnished, broken shape of the Ship, lying half into the canyon with a gaping tear in its side. The Ship, so the Geriats said, had brought men to Thisda so long ago that the memory of that day was no more than legend and men could not count back that far. And it was to the Ship that they went, all of the men of Thisda, once every four years, to the great control panels on the bridge, to the subspace radio -- where one of their number, the selected Radioman, would touch the controls, and would, for a day. Send. And for another day the Radioman would attempt to Receive, though in all the time that men had been on Thisda, no Radioman had ever been successful at Receiving. Joval told himself. Perhaps that is why  feel strange. Perhaps this Sending will also be a Receiving. Perhaps his old enemy, Theo Sona Weyam, whom Joval had nearly killed so long before, but who had survived to become the Radioman of this Sending -- perhaps Theo had studied the Manuals IF well enough to understand the holy mysteries of Receiving. Perhaps he would hear word from the Men of Earth. Perhaps it will all be over soon, and they will come to take us to Paradise, But he did not really think it likely. Perhaps there was even no such place as Earth. Perhaps... He drew himself close to the warmth of Amalthea and scratched idly at the prickling claws of the parasites that crawled across his abdomen. After a time he slept; II D awn came with breathtaking suddenness, as it always did on Thisda, and Joval roused his family. After prayers and a breakfast of famlydog and treshen, with morning urination into Amalthea's leathern pouch and a sprinkling of precious water for the ever-thirsty gods, they started on their way again. '"We shall see the Ship by the Devouring," he told Amalthea during a mid-morning pause, scanning the brown plains and rolling hills and dark horizon before them. She nodded, brushing the long, dark hair out of her eyes, and smiled at him without speaking. She had accompanied Joval on fully half of his trips to the Sending and it was not necessary for him to tell her such things. She knew them. Joval smiled back at her, one of his brief, rare smiles, thankful that he and not Theo Sona Weyam of the Greatfamly Innman had won the right to purchase her from her father. Then he urged Filis and Masai on, for it is not proper that a man and his family be late for the Sending. Sun was nearing Big Basta when they topped the rise and Joval pointed toward the distant valley, the great sweeping depression in the plains and the metallic glint that was the Ship. "There, you see," he said. "We shall be there before night." Shielding his eyes from the light of Sun, Joval peered at the Ship, or rather at the valley west of the canyon. He tried to make out the tiny dark specks that wpuld be the campsites of the others and the larger speck that would be the tent of the Geriats, the old men who passed for political and religious leaders of the men of Thisda. He did see the tent and perhaps a camp or two, though at this distance he could not be sure. Soon they would be closer and he could see. Ship at the strange, alien place which men held to be taboo and feared to approach closely. South of the Ship and the Place of the Sending, straddling the great fissure in the earth, were the dark, ghost-inhabited ruins of the Others, the remains of a city that had been millennia old when the Ancients came crashing down froni the sky. Beings other than men had dwelt there in the infinite ages of darkness, before the reckoning of time, beings who had come and built a great civilization and died in some cosmic cataclysm -- died when Star came sweeping down out of the sky, burning blue-white, and altered the universe, so the Ancients had believed. Now only the ruins and the ghosts remained of the Others, the original inhabitants, and men feared the place of their dwelling. Joval and his family had started down the long, sloping hill into the valley of the Ship, almost within hearing range of the barking famlydogs that clustered in the valley, when the Devouring came upon them. They stopped and assumed the attitudes of prayer until Sun returned to them. Then they went on again. vFRamon," said Robt Sona Dave, the Chief Geriat, when Joval and his family stopped before the tent of the Geriats to pay their respects before finding their own camp site. Robt, Geriat of the Greatfamly Clegg, was not merely old, Joval thought, but ancient -- over two hundred and fifty years, as time was counted on Thisda. He had been a big man in his youth and part of his largeness was still with him, though now his leathery skin hung in loose, ragged folds down his body; his single remaining eye was watery and growing dim, the other an empty, gaping hole. But he was the Chief Geriat -- and once every four years the Captain -- still a man of great power. Like Joval, he was naked save for his wide knife belt and a coppery medallion that hung around his neck, his symbol of authority, and the staff he used to support his weight. In the center of his shrunken, withered chest was the black tattoo ot a cross, the sacred symbol of Geriahood. His had a small circle around the intersection of the arms of the cross, another indication of his status. No other living man on Thisda wore the circled cross of the Chief Geriat. "Greeting, Robt Sona Dave," Joval said, tipping his body forward slightly. "Praise the Greatfamly Glegg. Good Sending to you." "Good Receiving to you," old Robt answered ritualistically. "I hope that your trip to the Valley of the Ship was a pleasant one." "Fair enough," Joval answered, remembering the sudden illness and death of the single famlykow he had brought. "I see that you are carrying your own burdens," Robt said, as if reading Joval's thoughts. "Have your famlykows had illness?" "Only one," Joval answered. IF 'The one that carried our goods. It died suddenly yesterday morning of the redear and we were forced to carry our trade goods on ourselves." "All of them?" the old Chief Geriat asked, twitching away a multi-winged insect that attempted to settle in the moist socket of his vacant eye. "Oh, no. Not all. Some we had to leave behind. Amalthea's pottery and most of my knives." "That is unfortunate, Joval," Robt said, "but perhaps you can persuade some men to go back with you to get them before the Trading begins."... "I had hoped to ask, if there is time." "Consider that you have asked. I will recommend it." "Thank you, Geriat." "Make your camp, then, Joval, for the night comes quickly and the wine traders will soon make their rounds." Joval nodded. "I will." "May Sun shine on you for all of your days," Robt Sona Dave said solemnly in parting. "And may the Men of Earth come before you die, old one," completed Joval. The old man smiled a lascivious, toothless smile as he started to turn away. "And keep a close watch on young Filis," he said. "Many men will be after her once they have begun to drink the northern wine." "I will, Geriat," Joval answered and led his family away from the tent toward the area of the camps. near horizon and the light of the evening crescent of Big Basta began to illuminate the Valley of the Ship with its cold, polarized light, Joval and his family stood a few hundred meters from the gaping canyon that sundered the valley, looking up at the great metallic cylinder that the stories said had carried their ancestors across the gulfs between the stars. The Ship was ancient now, tarnished and battered by the countless winter storms that had broken across it and by the unbearable blazing of summer Sun. It lay half on its side, partially in the bottomless crevasse, split in the middle and broken, appearing to be on the verge of falling into the blackness below. But it would not fall, Joval knew, for it had lain thus for more years than he could count and had not fallen. It would probably lie in the same fashion long after Joval Sona Ramon and his family were put into the dark, dry soil of Thisda. Even after all these years, all these centuries, Joval could see the path that the Ship had taken when' it landed and the path it had followed after touching down -- and where it had been dragged, for now it did not lie in the spot where it had first come down. With his eyes Joval followed those paths. Back up the valley, was the first depression, where the crippled Ship had come down from the sky. It had touched and skidded and tried to stop, but had been unable. It had skidd across the valley for two or three kilometers toward the canyon and the blackness deep within it. And as it skidded, it had turned half around, so that its side was parallel with the canyon. The great skid marks were still visible across the stones; the ages had not yet obliterated them. And finally, using the" last of the fire that had moved the Ship of the Ancients across the spaces between the stars, it had halted its skid, no more than meters from the yawning edge of the gorge. Only the benign will of the gods had saved the Ancients, had allowed them to come out of the Ship alive and look down into the canyon into which they and the Ship had nearly fallen. And that was the time of the first Sending, so the stories went. The Ancients had Sent and then tried to Receive, but now the gods did not look upon them with their former favor. Earth did not reply to this first of the long, long Sendings. of the Ship, half turned, half fallen into the canyon, at the tarnished battered surface and at the still-bright strips that ran along what had once been the top side of the Ship -- the bright cross called the subspace antenna. One band of bright, glittering metal, a full meter wide, ran from a few meters behind the nose to within the same distance of the Ship's open tail. A second strip, also a meter wide, ran from midway on the right side, up over the top, crossing the first strip, and down to midway on the left side. A third strip, no more than half a meter wide, formed a circle five meters in diameter around the intersection of the two straight bands. This was the antenna, so the stories said, that Sent the subspace messages into the sky -- and this was why the Ancients had tried to move the Ship, though no man living today understood why. It was just so. How it had ever been possible to move the Ship, Joval did not know. The Ship was enormous, a good three hundred meters long, seventy-five meters in diameter at its thickest point and its sheer weight was impossible to guess. But the Ancients had been different from the men who lived today; they had had great beasts of burden called tractors and copters that men of today did not have and with them they had begun to move the Ship. The Ship had been moved some four hundred meters from its resting place; such was the story told by the still visible marks along the side of the canyon, though the sloping ground had made it virtually impossible for them to get it IF far away from the gaping edge. And they had begun to turn the Ship so that its antenna did not point toward the Man-in-the-Sky, for the Ancients somehow feared and perhaps even hated Big Basta, the great god who daily devoured Sun. But the rocky ground along the edge of the canyon was softer than the Ancients had realized. It had crumbled beneath the weight of the Ship. Men and their great towing beasts had been tossed into the canyon and even the Ship itself, rolling, sliding, breaking nearly in half, had seemed in danger of falling fully into the gorge where the edge gave way. The Ship had slid and split, but it had not gone fully in. And there it lay to this day. The Ancients had tried again to move the Ship, so the stories said, but had been unable. Their beasts had fallen into the canyon and many of the Ancients themselves lay dead in the bottomless depths or crushed beneath the Ship. Then the plagues had come and most of the Ancients had died. None of their children had ever tried to move the Ship again. So it had lain on the edge of the canyon, visited once every four short years for the Sending. Ill returned to the crude lean-to and the smoldering dung fire the wine traders were making their rounds. This was the Night Before the Sending, a time to drink wine and eat and make love and rejoice in what life the gods had given to the men of Thisda. Since most of the trade goods were buried near the place where the famlykow had died, Joval had little with him to trade, other than a large sack of seeds and three of the knives for which he was most famous. The small-eyed wine traders, men from the distant north along the Great Inland Sea, had little use for the seeds from the farm of Joval Sona Ramon, but knives -- well, all men needed wildogs and B-cats and other men. A wineskin for each knife was a bargain for both Joval and the wine traders. They parted happy, wishing each other a good Sending, a true Receiving and many sons. brim, Joval drank the warm, bitter wine, smiling at the bite of it on his tongue, the burn of it as it went down his throat. Yes, it was good wine, worth his knives, he thought, and drank another gourd. Amalthea, Filis and even little Masai each had a gourd of the wine and smiled at the unfamiliar warmth of it in their stomachs. "This will be a good Sending," Joval said, drinking his third gourd, then wiping his mouth with the matted hair of the back of his hand. "I feel it within me," he went on. "The famlykow's death was a bad omen, but not as bad as I thought. No, all is well." And he finished the gourd and refilled it and passed it on to his wives. Somewhere near the tent of the Geriats, where the countless famlydogs barked in anticipation of the scraps from the coming feast, someone had begun to play a melody on reed pipes. Soon a stringed instrument that Joval could not identify joined in -- a voice picked up the words and they were strange, ancient, alien words that said: The option of the thirty-nine took the loneliness. Beside it, leaving just brown clay; The Men of Earth do not come out of their homes; Or like the local ether, sitting, looking. Oh, improbable, improbable escapades Under the stars; Thoughts, nakedness, alone; Our victory, our loss; Accepted, but not comfortable, A ny planet, carbon-based... T he words went on. Perhaps they had once had meaning, somewhere, somewhen, but not to Joval or his kind. "Come," he said, rising to his feet, slinging the half empty wineskin and a full one across his shoulder. "There is another song to sing and meat to eat and wine to drink. This is the Night Before the Sending." His two wives also rose, Amalthea quickly, Filis with something like uncertainty in her face, for this was the first Sending that she had attended as a married woman and she was somewhat unsure of herself and of how she should behave. "Don't worry," Amalthea whispered to her, just loudly enough for Joval to hear. "Our husband is good and loyal to the Way and this is the Night Before the Sending." Filis smiled uncertainly. "Masai," Joval yelled over his shoulder as he began to walk away from the camp. "Keep the fire going. You may drink from the other wineskin, but not too much." "Yes, father," the boy said obediently. Joval smiled to himself, remembering how it had been when he was a boy, how he had drunk too much wine and let the fire go out and crept down to the circle of light aroundthe tent of the Geriats to see what it was that the adults did on the Night Before the Sending. So it would be with Masai and it was well. For that is what a boy should do on the Night Before the Sending. How else was he to learn? Twigs and reeds and a dozen other kinds of combustibles had been piled before the tent of the Geriats and set afire. Near the flames there was bright, flickering light and undulating shadows and IF warmth that drove away the chill of the night, as did the wine which all were drinking. Long spits extended over the edges of the flames, skewering the skinned bodies of fatted famly dogs and goats and famlykows, their blood and fat dripping, sizzling into the flames. The spits were turned by the oldest wives of the Geriats -- withered, toothless old crones, their flat breasts flapping against their distended bellies as they moved. Insects flitted and the rich scent of roasting meat hung in the smoke above the flames, momentarily hiding the ripe, rancid odors of garbage and human and animal wastes that permeated the Place of the Sending. O NE by one those around the fire had put aside their vermininfested robes and blankets and stood as naked as they would on a warm autumn day. And they sang and drank wine and ate meat and made plans for the pairing. For some the planning stages were past; they had paired and the simple fondling, caressing games of adults had already begun, games that would lead to greater pleasures and perhaps to babies. Between the fire and the tent of the Geriats stood the great maypole of the Sending, a brightly painted and frankly sexual replica of the male organ, a phallic symbol to invoke the friendlier gods, asking them for a fruitful winter's harvest and many sons; the Time of the Sending was also the beginning of the growing season. And often the gods smiled, for Joval's crops were golden at winter's end and his both Amalthea and Filis would bear sons three and a half years hence when their time came to deliver children conceived on this Night Before the Sending. Old Gordon the Castrate limped painfully up to one of the roasting goats and tore off a chunk of meat with his clawlike hands. No one reproached him,for all knew that he was mad and suffered unspeakably from the great wounds in his abdomen and pelvis -- the wounds of a savage B-cat pack that had attacked his farm and killed all of his family but himself, and very nearly him. The other beggars and cripples, more sane and mindful of custom, waited until the old wives of the Geriats cut the meat with sharp knives and passed it around. Three men played instruments, two reed pipes and the stringed instrument that Joval had heard before. And half a hundred voices sang a crude song that spoke of the Paradise beyond the sky and the day when mfen would come from Earth to take them all to that wonderful place. Green are her valleys, green in the sun, A nd white are her tall mountain peaks; Blue are her oceans, reflecting the sky, A nd blue are her lakes and her creeks; White are the clouds that float in her sky. And black is the loam of her fields. Green are her prairies, green are her hills. And s weet and goodly their yields. Tall are her cities that rise in the sky. And straight are the highways between; Silver the craft that speed through the air, A nd pass oer the blue and the green. White is the sun that climbs in her sky, A nd white is her moon in the night; Red are her sunsets and red is her dawn. Golden and lovely and bright... A cross the fire Joval caught sight of the twisted face of Theo Sona Weyam. Theo had apparently already seen Joval and his family and his eyes seemed now to be fixed on Amalthea, whom he had lost so many years before. Any hatred that Joval had felt for Theo was gone now, and he raised his hand in greeting, but Theo turned away suddenly and vanished. Joval shook his head and ignored the incident. Someone called for Melinda, the youngest daughter of Hansford Sona, Martin's wife Gwel, to come before them and dance. But Melinda had been married to Frid Sona Turner the Midwinter before and was hesitant to dance before them all. "Frid," Joval calle#, seeing Melinda's husband standing near the huge fire, a wineskin upturned, "you will not prevent our seeing Melinda dance this Sending, will you?" "Joval!" Frid called back. "Come taste my wine. Knifemaker." Joval, followed by Amalthea and Filis, went to where Frid Sona Turner stood alon with two or three other men who had been watching a group of young women and speculating. "It is good to see you, Joval," Frid said. Frid Sona Turner of the Greatfamly Heath, a distant relative of Joval's, was a tali, strongly built man some ten or twelve years younger than Joval. A farmer and metal worker, Frid was a maker of plows as his father and grandfather had been before him. He was darkskinned and tattooed from chest to ankles in red and gold. A great livid scar ran down his left hip and thigh. Many years before he had been gored by a bull wildkow and still walked with a painful limp, though his strength was equal to that of any man. "And you, Joval answered. "How is Turner Sona Lyle?" ""My father is well enough for an old man," Frid said, "He is ill with aching bones and stayed behind this Sending. Not coming nearly broke his heart." "It is sad to see a man like Turner come to old age," Joval said, accepting Frid's offered wine. "Still, Frid, we would all like for Melinda to dance for us." "She is my wife now," Frid said laughing. "She dances for me." "It would do no harm for her to dance for us all," Joval told him. "Well -- " Frid pondered. "Well, IF I will allow Melinda to dance if you will allow Fills." "But I am no dancer," Fills objected, half stepping behind Amalthea as if seeking protection. "With beauty like yours, you must be a dancer," Frid said, something between a leer and a smile on his face. then at Amalthea, then back to Joval. Amalthea spoke first. "Joval, let her dance." The Knifemaker laughed. "Very well. Both Melinda and Fills shall dance, but Melinda first." He knew very well that Fills would probably not be asked to dance by Frid. Dancing was not what Frid had in mind for Joval's youngest wife. Frid turned to where Melinda stood a few meters away talking with her mother. "Melinda," he yelled, "it is decided. Joval insists. You shall dance." "But, Frid -- " Melinda started to call back. "Dance, woman!" Melinda shrugged, nodded farewell to her mother and strode to the edge of the fire where the men played their instruments. For a moment she seemed to hesitate, then smiled, shucked her burly robe and stood for a moment naked, silhouetted against the roaring fire. The young wife of Frid Sona Turner, called Melinda Dauta Gwel, was a rarity among the peoples of Thisda. Antique genes, dating back to the times of the Ancients, had risen during her conception, giving her a skin that was far fairer than most, hair that was golden and fine, bleached more golden still by Sun. Her eyes were large and liquid, with a strange, beckoning gray-green color and flashed with a teasing sensuality. No more than eighty-five years old, Melinda was Just now a grown woman, and her lush, sensual body, decorated with the tattoos of blue and yellow, had not yet earned the green stars of motherhood. She was a prize for which Frid had worked long and hard and paid a great price in famlykows. Alternately closing one nostril and then the other with her thumb, she blew her nose clear of ash and the smell of smoke, then breathed deeply and waited for the three musicians to decide among themselves what to play. Finally the music quickened, and the girl lgan to dance. "A lovely wife," Joval said. "True," Frid replied, though he was obviously not looking at his own wife, but at Joval's youngest. Turning up his deflated wineskin, Joval emptied it, tossed it to the ground, spat in the dust and pulled the stopper from the second. Turning to offer it to Amalthea, he saw that she was gone, and smiled. So it was on the Night Before the Sending. She would return to the camp before the first light of dawn. and that was as it should be. Having filled his mouth with wine from the second skin, Joval nodded to Frid and slipped away before Filis could turn and discover that he, too, was leaving. Filis would be fine, he thought, once she had adjusted. And Frid would be kind to her. M elinda danced savagely, sensually, with the untutored grace of one born to dancing, until she nearly collapsed with exhaustion. But Joval, the friend of her husDand and her father, Joval Sona Ramon, the Knifemaker, was there to hold her and offer her wine and sit silently beside her while she regained her breath"! 'Thank you, Joval Sona Ramon," she said slowly, teasingly formal as she spoke, though her eyes said that she was not displeased with the man that her husband had offered and would accept. "You dance wonderfully well, Melinda Dauta Gwel," Joval replied with the same false formalality. "Thank you again." Joval took a deep drink of the wine, felt his head begin to spin pleasantly, then handed the skin back to the naked girl. "Frid has had his eyes on that young wife of yours," she said after drinking, scratching at the back of her neck for a louse that had sunk one of its heads deep into her flesh. "And I have had my eye on that yoting wife of his," Joval answered, his desire for her already physically manifest. "So I gathered," Melinda said, glancing up, appearing coy and shy, though her hand fell upon his thigh. "There are too many people here," Joval said, though the crowd had now begun to diminish; couples, one after another, crept off into the semi-darkness of night and the light of Big Basta. Rising, Joval helped her to her feet, then led her around the tent of the Geriats, into its long, deep shadows and the nearest thing to total darkness available. Melinda paused for a moment to relieve heself, then went on with him. Twice, walking carefully, listening to the dwindling music and to faint sighs of pleasure, they were forced to avoid other couples who had preceded them, but soon they found a place to be alone, where none were within touching distance, at least. Joval spread his robe on ground that was growing colder by the minute and drank again from the wineskin. "You are a lovely woman, Melinda," he said, standing over her, looking down at the young, full body, the golden mass of hair falling across her shoulders and cascading down her back, the swelling of her breasts and the marks of her tattoos bearly visible in the half darkness. IF "Don't talk, Joval," she whispered in reply, pushing the wineskin away as he offered it. "I need no more wine." Joval dropped the skin to the ground and gently pushed her back against the robe that lay spread beneath her. Melinda's body was warm and soft, ripe for the loving of a man. And he found that she was very, very good at giving a man what he wanted. This he discovered more than once during the short night. IV the Day of the Sending, Joval arose with a painful head and loose bowels and the ache of fatigue in his legs. He had found his way back to camp before the coming of light, and had less than an hour of sleep before Amalthea shook him awake. "Rise, Joval. The Sending begins soon," she said. Joval rubbed his eyes, pulling the rough blanket around his shoulders for warmth, and twice slapped his bearded cheek to drive away the sleep. Masai and Filis, huddled together under the same blanket, still slept, snoring in rhythm. "Don't worry," Amalthea said, guessing Joval's concern, glancing over at the younger wife. "She pleased Frid and he her. Now eat and hurry. It is not seemly to be late." Between mouthfuls of fresh meat, half burned, half raw, Joval tried to ask Amalthea with whom she had spent the night, but she smiled and refused to tell him. Frustrated but not angry, Joval rose, kissed Amalthea lightly and went to the tent of the Geriats. Within the huge, ancient tent kneeled all of the adult men of Thisda who were able to attend while the Geriats prayed aloud to all the gods, asking particularly that the radio gods look kindly upon this Sending and grant them also Reception tomorrow. Then Theo Sona Weyam was called before the Geriats. The Radioman, a free citizen of the Greatfamly Innman, was as tall as Joval, though more slightly built; he was a man fast on his feet in a fight and quick to anger. One sign of that anger was a long, red scar that ran down the right side of his face, puckering his mouth and giving him a permanent grimace. That was the scar of the knife of Joval Sona Ramon, given Theo many years before when they had fought over the purchase of Amalthea Dauta Suzan. Joval had won that fight for Amalthea and Theo had apparently never forgiven him for it. to forget their feud at this Sending, when Tlieo assumed the holy function of Radioman. Theo slowly advanced toward the six Geriats who stood at the far end of the lent. Since the day had already grown hot, nearing # or # C, all the men had left their blankets and robes behind them with their families and were naked as they crowded into the tent. Only the six Geriats were dressed, as was the custom, in clothing that imitated as nearly as possible the clothing that the Ancients had worn when they first came to Thisda. O LD Robt Sona Dave, Geriat of Ihc Greatfamly Clegg and the Chief Geriat, wore the uniform of Starship Captain, for on this day and the next he ym Captain of the Ship. The other Geriats were dressed as First Officer, Simon Sona Christopher, Geriat of the Greatfamly Heath; Second Officer, Arn Sona Mark, Geriat of the Greatfamly Innman; Astrogator, Henry Sona Floyd, Dunagan; Engineer, Grego Sona James, Carter; and Damage Control Officer, Don Sona Rae, Geriat of the Greatfamly Bernard. A seventh uniform lay on the low table before them and this was the worn gray uniform of the Communications Officer. "Theo Sona Weyam," the Caplain said as the Radioman stepped before tlie table and took the position of humility, "you are the chosen Communications Officer for this Sending and Receiving. Do you understand this and your responsibilities?" "Yes, Captain," Theo answered ritualistically. "Do you have the Holy Manuals?" "Yes, Captain." Theo offered him the three worn books that he carried in his hands: Guide to the Operation of Subspace Radio Model AU-#-G, Revision IV; Basic Subspace Communications Theory; and Advanced Subnuclear Physics Simplified, "Have you studied these Manuals well and prayerfully?" "Yes, Captain. # "Are you prepared to Send and to Receive?" "Yes, Captain, the gods "Then I hereby appoint you Communications Officer of the Ship." Old Arn Sona Mark, the Second Officer, lifted the gray garments from the table and handed them to Simon Sona Christopher, First Officer, who in turn gave them to the Captain. "Communications Officer Theo Sona Weyam, here is your uniform. Wear it proudly." "I humbly thank you, Captain, and swear that my actions shall never disgrace this uniform." Theo rose, accepting the clothing, but did not put it on. Before he did so a long, elaborate ceremony of cleansing would be performc l. would remove the IF last traces of here and now from Theo and, in theory at least, make him into an Ancient. Joval had witnessed a number of times before, it had lost much of its magic for him. While it was taking place he allowed his mind to wander back to the farm where middle wife, Andre Dauta Sue, would be taking the young children out of the deep, cool burrow into the bearable warmth of early autumn. Young Peak, now more than a boy but less than a man, would be seeing his sixtieth autumn and winter, an age when a young male child learned of the ways of adults. Joval had taught him much: the times of planting; the ancient methods of dry-irrigation; the times of harvest; the forging of steel and the making of knives; how to read and write to better understand the mysteries of the Traditions and the Way and the old, old stories of their origins. And now, while his chest still ached with the pains of puberty, Andre would have begun teaching young Peak the ways of a man and a woman, the touch and feel, the arousing desire, the coupling and the fulfillment. That was as it should be, for there were no girls of Peak's age within many kilometers of the farm of Joval's family, and who else was there to teach the boy such things? So, Joval thought without jealousy, they would have awakened that morning. Peak and Andre, and enjoyed their bodies with each other, and then they would eat and set out to do their work. Soon they would begin to remove the long, sturdy reeds from their storage place and then take them and set them in the sockets of the foundation of the house., Jak and Fran and tiny Dave, as young as they were, would be helping Peak and Andre to raise the walls of their winter home. Later they would help gather thatch that would be used to form the roof of the hut which hopefully would keep out the autumn rains that would soon begin. When their labors were done they would sprinkle water for the gods and wait for Joval and the others to return from the Sending so that the fall planting could begin. After a while the cleansing ceremony was over and Theo, his back red from the scourging of supple, damp reeds, his body dripping sweat, donned the shapeless, ill-fitting uniform. Now he was the Radioman. "Let the Sending begin," said Robt Sona Dave, the Captain, and the slow procession started out of the tent toward the Ship, chanting an ancient hymn. E very third man carried a torch as they made their way into the darkness of the Ship, for the use of the Ship's precious power was not allowed until the Crew had assembled on the bridge. Then the Captain would order the Engineering Officer to give the bridge power -- and the incredibly ancient power ceils, somehow still working after all these ages, would give the bridge light and the subspace radio the pow.er that it needed to Send. Hot as it had become by now, perspiration beading on his naked skin, Joval felt a chill in the corridors of the Ship, the same chill that he had felt each time he had been within it. Here age and mystery met his knowledge of his own ignorance and the ignorance of all of his people. The Ancients had known so terribly much more than Joval and Theo and Robt and all the others could even imagine. How could they ever hope to Send? Or Receive? But it must be done, he told himself. This is the Way. There is no other. Forever. Amen. The Officers entered the bridge. The others assumed their places in line according to their age. Joval, being older than many, was allowed to enter the bridge, though he stood distant from the subspace radio position; through the press of bodies he could see little of what took place there. It did not matter. Jovafs seeing the actual Sending would make little difference. All that mattered now was Theo Sona Weyam. He had studied the Manuals well enough? Did he truly know how to Send and Receive? Would the gods allow it this time? The Captain, Robt Sona Dave, looking less old now, stood before the subspace radio and intoned a prayer that must have dated back to the time of the Landing or shortly after, for the words were strange and at times hardly prayerful: "For God's sake," Robt chanted, "let this damned thing work this time. All we ask is one brief contact with Earth, a moment..." F inally, when the prayer was done, Theo, his twisted mouth showing no expression, seated himself before the radio controls, said his own private prayer and asked the Captain to give him power. "Engineering, power for the subspace radio," Robt Sona Dave said loudly. His words were picked up by the man beside him, passed on to the next man and the next, out of the bridge and into the corridor, down to the last in the line, the youngest allowed within the Ship this Sending -- a downy-cheeked youth, his red and gold tattoos of manhood still raw and painful as he moved, his foreskin still a healing scar. The youth grabbed the words as they fell on his ears, turned and ran back down the dark corridors to the engineering department where he gave the message to Grego Sona James, who stood there by torch IF light, dressed in the uniform of the Engineering Officer. The Geriat, upon hearing the order, stepped forward, peered at the complex panel of switches through rheumy eyes, selected the one that was the most worn, flipped it into an upward position and said a short prayer. At that moment, back on the bridge, a single green light in the lower left hand corner of the subspace radio control board blinked to life. The Captain, after offering the power gods a short, ancient prayer, said to Theo Sona Weyam, "Mr. Communications Officer, please contact Earth and inform them of our difficulties." "Yes, sir," the Communications Officer answered in a ritualistic tone. Beside Theo Sona Weyam was a low, crude table upon which he had laid the three Manuals. One of the holy books, the one entitled Guide to the Operation of Subspace Radio AN-#-G, Revision IV, was open and Theo referred to it constantly as he began the sequence of adjustments that should begin the Sending. Despite the fact that he knew the Manual by heart and had studied every last surviving word each day for the past four years, Theo did not dare to rely on his memory alone during the Sending. One single misstep might so anger the radio gods that the Sending would not take place. F ive panel meters, registering the amount of power fed to each of the unit's five major sections from the power supply, showed life almost at once. Carefully Theo adjusted the knobs below the meters until the needle of each rested exactly at the center point. When the final meter was adjusted, the assembled men sighed; the first stage was completed and the gods were still smiling. The Sending had begun well. A row of toggle switches lay along the right side of the main transmitter panel, and though the lettering that had once identified them was worn away, an illustration in the Manual clearly labeled each of them. Following the procedure outlined step-by-step in the Manual, Theo went down the series of switches, flipping them upward, pausing until the corresponding green light came to life, then going on to the next. Transmitter Bank -- on. Automatic Frequency Selector -- on. Power Amplifier Loading -- on. Modulator -- on. Subspace Converter -- on. Stage two completed successfully and the gods praised, Theo went on to the third and final stage, the adjustment of the carrier strength and modulation levels. At last the sub-space radio's dials and meters told him that all was ready; oscillators within the supermicrominiature solid state and moly-level components were generating signals. The signals, amplified, heterodyned, stepped up in power and moved up in frequency, developed electromagnetic signals of tremendous power upon which the subspace, faster-thanlight waves would be impressed by the modulation conversion units. With a touch of his finger to a switch, electromagnetic energy would form on the cross of the hull antenna -- energy that would further engender subspace energy that would leap from the metallic surface at speeds far in excess of that of light, that could cross the long, long light-years to Earth in minutes. All was ready. "Captain," said Radioman Theo Sona Weyam, "all systems are go. The subspace radio is prepared to Send." "Proceed," said the Captain. the final button and with something between fear and elation in his eyes he slowly depressed the button and began to speak the ancient ritual of Sending into the microphone, the same words that had been spoken by the first Radioman so long before. "Colonial Starship Esanda calling Earth," Theo began slowly in a sing-song fashion. "This is Colonial Starship Esanda calling Earth. We have made a forced landing in the planetary system of UR-#. We were hulled by a meteor coming out of pseudospeed. Lost most of our reaction mass -- and we no longer have pseudospeed potential. Repeat, we no longer have pseudospeed potential. We are stranded." Many of the words were meaningless to Joval, though men had speculated upon their meaning for ages. "Pseudospeed," for example. What in all the universe could that be? "We're on one of the planets orbiting the Ko component of the binary star system; actually we're on a nearly E-type satellite of a Jovian world -- mass of something like .# Earth. The air is thin but breathable, but it's hotter than hell here. The planets orbit damned close to the primary. There seems to be no intelligent life here now -- but there once was, but it appears to have been wiped out when the other component of the binary, an A I star, came in too close some hundred and fifty thousand years ago. Theo paused to wipe his hands on his uniform trousers, then went on. "Damage to the ship in landing and a mutated local disease have decimated the crew and colonists. We don't know how much longer we can hold out." As he spoke the Radioman's voice rose in pitch trying to imitate the way in which those first frantic messages had been sent. "Earth, if you hear IF US -- for God's sake, help us. Get us off this damned place." And so the Sending went, the ancient words repeated, the ancient plea for help, for rescue. Time passed and the Sending continued. V L ate in the afternoon, far past the time of the Devouring, hunger and the most basic of his bodily needs got the better of Joval and he silently slipped out of the bridge, down the corridor and out of the Ship into the bright orange light of Sun. He made his way to where his family sat prayerfully watching the Ship, watching the violet flickering that played across the subspace antenna on the Ship's hull. "How does it go?" Amalthea asked as Joval sat down on the blanket in the shade of the lean-to. "Well enough," Joval said. "Theo has not made a single mistake so far. The gods should be pleased." "Good," his eldest wife said. "You must be hungry'" "I am." She opened one of the packs, took out a wrapped slice of dried famlydog meat and a small pile of treshen seeds. She filled her gourd half full of water. Joval nodded his appreciation. "Do you think it may happen this time, Joval?" asked Filis, blushing and ill at ease, refusing to meet his eyes, apparently still thinking of the events of the night before. "It may," Joval said, smiling at her and trying to tell her with his eyes that what she had done, what they had all done, was as it should have been, as the gods willed. "It is all going well," he went on. "We may contact Earth this time'" He remembered his father's having spoken the same words many years before and he suddenly had very little hope -- very little hope at all. in silence, his mind wandering aimlessly. 