"Miranda was here to save Jota, you to make sure he stayed dead -- because both of you believed that Chat would weaken the Gift in your time. A little while ago, when you found you'd lost it, you decided, and perhaps you were riit, that Jota had to be saved. Save him, and maybe you saved the Gift most of Greg's # pounds behind it. It finished her interest in the contest at the moment it began. Greg had not taken time to take off his suit. The fact on the whole favored me. The plastic afforded him some protection, and he was hard to grasp properly. But the heat his efforts generated was trapped in the suit. I also guessed that the air supply from the tank at the back was constant, but not enough to sustain continued activity. Coming to the same conclusion as me, Greg tried to win grace to remove his suit. And I kept at him so that he couldn't. Soon he was gasping like a grassed fish. He hit me once, and although it was only a glancing blow on my right breast, the pain and numbness that went through me showed me my only chance was either to hit Greg without being hit mysdt or to fight him as I had fought Iota. Using his weight, I brought off a knee-drop which hurt him badly. Nevertheless, it was perhaps a mistake, for he got up so mad that I knew I was engaged in not much less than a fight to the death, perhaps nothing less at all. He couldn't get his suit off. Every time he tried, I hit him or butted him or threw him. My tactics paid off, for when suddenly he caught me a stingmg blow on the side of the head and I reeled, defenseless for a moment, he chose to use the moment gained to get the suit off rather than to follow up his advantage. And that was a life for me. By the time he had stripped to his briefs I was able to go on. The trend of the struggle changed. While he'd been wearing his suit there had been no point in trying to throw him through the stasis wall. Now there was. I was deliberately trying to do what I had done quite accidentally in Iota's case -- burn Greg to death. The blaze outside our bubble of coolness was dying now, and yet the embers were so hot that if Greg rolled out into them, he'd die as surely as Iota had. Unlike Iota, however, Greg knew what would happen. And he was trying to do the same to me. He threw me once, by brute strength, and then launhed himself at me, intending to win me with his weight. I rolled partly clear, but ihc gralbbcd me and held me. He was on top and I could do nothing about bis weiglhit. He started to swing at my head a blow which would have ended my interest in the fight. Then he fdl on top of me, limp. I extricated myself. Dina was standing over us. She had picked up a stone and hit Greg with it. "Have I killed him?" she asked anxiously. "I don't care if you have," I gasped. "I didn't mean to kill him. But If I didn't knock him out, he'd have taken the stone from me. So I had to hit pretty hard." "You haven't killed him, Dina," I said, moving from Greg to Miranda, who was dazedly picking herself up. I offered her a hand, but she shook her head and sat down again, taking a breather. Greg had been pretty rough with her that night. I turned back to Dina, who was a singularly attractive stranger. She wore a crisp white blouse which in the middle of all this was spotless, a short black skirt with a wide belt, nylons and stiletto shoes. She must have been fully protected from the be ginnin g. I asked her what had happened. "I was watching television with Barbara and Gil," she said. "We heard shouting first. Then the television suddenly went off. And there was a glow at the window. The next thing, there was a glow at the 'l# other window. Gil shouted: 'Get Garry, and we'll go to the cellar.' " So that was how it had happened. Before the giants intervened, when Barbara and Gh were alone in the house with Garry, Gil's first reaction had been to seek refuge in the cellar. A very reasonable idea, really... the trouble was, he thought the fire that apparently surrounded them was an ordinary fire, and it wasn't. In an ordinary fire, the cellar of Gil's house would have been a perfect place. But in the fire that was to come, any cellar would become an oven, and anyone within would be baked slowly and very painfully to death. They had just reached the cellar when two. big youths in plastic suits appeared and practically dragged them back into the hl of the house. Barbara, frightened, did exactly as she was told; Dina, curious, was glad to get out of the dingy cellar and have a chance of seeing what was happening; Gil, dazed, had to be shouted at before anything registered; and Garry slept peacefully through the whole thing. There had been a curious wait while people screamed outside, while crowds ran past the house, while the red glow became bright enough to replace the lights which had gone out. The youths in plastic suits didn't speak, didn't answer Barbara's hysterical questions. Yet they had a comforting air of knowmg exactly what they were doing. Unhimiedly they unwrapped a bundle and made Gil, Barbara, Dina and Garry put on fire-suits -- the IF simpler version I had seen. And still they aJl waited. Then, quite suddenly, it was time to move. The giants gave the baby to Barbara, opened the door, and they moved out. It was indescribable -- at any rate, Dina entirely failed to describe it. They walked along a street of fire. No one saw them because nobody not wearing a suit could be there to see them. They felt no heat, breathed easily and their eyes did not smart. They had, after all, only a few hundred yards to go. Before they realized it, they were in an area of comparative silence, complete calm, and cool, fresh air. 'Fhe suits were at once taken from them. They would be used again and again that night. There were others in the stasis, many others -- frightened, bewildered people. More were brought in every moment, in plastic suits which were removed as they arrived. Beyond this point Dina knew little or nothing more, because then Miranda had appeared and taken her aside. "She gave me a pill," said Dina. "And I fell asleep." I looked past her at Miranda. That the giants had powers that were remarkable to us was undeniable: that these powers were, after all, limited was equally clear. I could understand that Miranda's powers had been able to make of Dina a whole person for the first time in her life. But that this could be achieved merely by giving her a pill I just could not believe. Unseen by Dina, Miranda made a gesture. Its meaning was plain: she was telling me not to pursue this. Maybe she was right. I knew all I had to know. Looking at Dina, I marveled. She didn't have any words she hadn't had before; she didn't have any experience she had before. But... Dina was normal. She couldn't have explained things as she had, understanding in retrospect, unless she'd become something much nearer an ordinary #year-old than she'd ever been. Dina had never before told me a long and fairly complicated story which I could understand. "She made me," referring to Sheila, was about the most I could expt. "I'm grateful," I said to Miranda, and I meant it. F eeling better, Miranda stood up. There was pain in her face, but only physical pain, and that was nothing. She glowed with happiness, relief, satisfaction. "Success by mistake," she said. "It often happens. History is like that. We made dozens of mistakes and got the right answer. You matter, Val, not Iota. Greg..." She shrugged, looking down at him. "I can handle him now." "I wouldn't be too sure," I said. She was completely confident. "He knows now. Hell be a disgruntled, dazed child when he comes round. He won't give me any trouble. But now we have two suits -- three suits. Val, take Dina and get out now. Greg and I will be all right. We'll be snapped back with the stasis." She smiled. "And have many, many chaldren. You and Sheila. And Dina. She may be involved, too. She may even be the one that matters... no, it must be you. Yet Dina, too, didn't have children before, presumably, and will now -- " For Miranda it was over. Mission accomplished. She hadn't failed after all, although, as she'd admitted, she had succeeded through luck and not much else. But for me it wasn't over. I had still failed. I'd still get the lion's share of the blame for the Great Fire of Shuteley. I'd still deserve a lot of it. The word mather would still go into the language. The kids Miranda wanted Sheila and me to have would grow up in an atmosphere of scorn. Your old man's a murderer," They'd be chased out of their playground at the break as Jota had once been chased. And not just once. And some teachers would turn a blind eye. "No," I said. "What do you mean, no?" "I'm not going to face a future like that. I'm not going to have kids to be picked on by the whole world." The happiness died out of Miranda's face, to be replaced by an anxious look. "Vay, you must! My world needs you and what you can do for it." "Your world," I said grimly, "is less to me than the destruction of Shuteley was to you. Far, far less." Dina was looldng from Miranda to me, and back again, comprehend ing very little of what was happening, and yet comprehending surprisingly much. "I mean a lot to you," I said. "You know it." "More than you know." "I've got a price." "A price?" "Trinity Hall," I said. he didn't understand. "You told ime yourself," I said. "If it weren't for the Trinity Hall bit of the disaster, I'd have a chance. My kids would have a chance. Without Trinity Hall, the death roll in this terrible fire would be astonishingly light. The fire-safety arrangements, if not fue prevention, would come out of it rather well. It's facts that count after anything like this. Without the Trinity Hall 'tragedy it would be a shocking fire, sure, nobody would get any credit, but I wouldn't be thrown to the lions. A few score people would have died in a fire that might have killed thousands. On the whole, I wouldn't have done too badly. I might even keep my job." "That's all you're thinking of -- yourself?" Miranda said. "For all you've said, the fire is no more than a setback to yourself?" I laughed without humor. "Myself, Sheila, Dina, our kids and far more. The two hundred who were burned to death in Trinity Hall. If they're not saved... I don't want to be saved either." "You're bluffing. You won't stay here to die." IF xxxn "I will," I said quietly. "I can't speak for Dina. She can make up her own mind." Dina said: "Val's all I have. I think I understand what this is about. There are two hundred people you could save -- " "I can't," Miranda insisted. "Val thinks you can... I haven't had much of a life. My memories are hazy -- hut I know Val's always done all he should for me, and maybe more. I'm grateful, too, for what you've done for me. I could have a wonderful life now. But it would be spoiled if I backed down here. This wasn't my idea. I'd never have thought of it and I wouldn't have done anything if I had. But now -- if I saved myself, I'd be trading two hundred lives for mine." "That's nonsense," Miranda said sharply. "Val, you know you don't die. The river of time -- " "I'm sick to the back teeth of the river of time. I wanted explanations. Now I've had enough. Unless you save the kids and old folk in Trinity Hall, I'm staying here, do you understand?" "In a suit," said Miranda. "There are suits here. You're bluffing. You'll put them on, stay here and -- " She stopped as I picked up the three suits and walked to the wall of the stasis. She didn't protest. She still thought I was bluffing. But when I threw the first one through, she screamed. The plastic was fireproof, but the breathing apparatus was not. And the suit was not sealed. M iranda pulled urgently at me. "Val, wait," she begged. "You don't understand. If you destroy the suits, you destroy all chance of getting what you want. Even if I did try to get something done about Trinity Hall, to do that I'd have to get back to the copse and speak to... to the people in charge. I couldn't leave here without a suit. So if you -- " I threw a second suit at the invisible wall. It passed limply through and flared only sligjifcly, because the material wouldn't bum. But then the heat got at the oxygen in the breathing apparatus, and there was a minor explosion. I moved back from the stasis wall with Miranda. "Now we're back where we started," I said. "There's one suit. Dina and I can't both get out. You want to save us. If what you say is true, you have to save us. And the only way you can do that is save the people in Trinity Hall." "They'll never agree," she said. "But you have agreed. You're going to try." "All right," she said quietly. "I'll try." There was sudden frantic urgency after the long hours of inaction. In the army, you hurry up and wait. Or, sometimes, wait and huny up. I didn't know what time dawn was, but it must ibe very soon now. While there had been nothing we could do, time had not mattered much. But suddenly it was of vital importance. Miranda tugged at the remaining fire-suit, fumbling in her haste. When she had it on, she didnt waste time in talk. Se almost Tan through the stasis w. "I dont suppose you can explain this to me, Val?" said Dina. 'l dont suppose I can." "But you meant ah that about Trinity Hall? Two hundred people are dying there, and she can save them?" Dina had been sound asleep for hours. Her misconception of the situation was understandable. She didn't know enough, understand enough, to realize that what I was demanding of Miranda was a change of history, an alteration in what had already happened. Dina took it for granted that if two hundred people could he saved, they must stih he ve. "Yes," I said. Greg had not moved. I took a cursory glance at him; he was breathing, and the injury on his head was merely a bruise, tiiough a large one. He would recover all right. If he took his time about domg it, so much the better. Miranda 'believed that now she could handle him easily. I wasn't so sure. "And ah we can do is wait?" Dina said. "All we can do is wait." By this lime the town must be surrounded by half the firemen in England, and no doubt some progress in fighting the dying fire was ibeing made. Water turned to steam would be drawing off a lot of heat from the scorched ground. Was there a diance, I wondered, that we'd he saved anyway? If the firemen were able to fight their way into the ravaged town, if they got anyway near the sta, we might live, independent of Miranda and the giiants. I found myself hoping desperately. I wanted to live. I wanted Dina to live, now that she had something to live for. M y grandstanding had been sincere enough. For selfish and unselfish reasons the issue for me had to come down to the fate of Trinity Hall and the people in it. I at least half believed that the giants couldn't afford to avert the fire, that they couldn't openly fight it, showing themselves fitting it, that perhaps they really had done all they could by secretly saving a few score o people whose bodies would not he missed. But somebody could easily have given the alarm at Trinity Hall. A stone through a window -- failure of lights -- smoke through the ventilation -- a tap on a door -- and all those people could he saved. I didn't think Miranda's river of time would ihe too much disturbed. I hadn't told Miranda, perhaps I didn't know then, all my own reasons for digging in my heels on this one thing. The really fundamental one was my own feeling of responsibility. No, I hn't started the fire. I hadn't been careless or inefficient or venal. I had simply done my job the way I was told and expected to do my job. Nothing had been falsified, nothing hidden. Even on Trinity Hall itself my conscience was IF clear. Fire officers want to make sure, whaitever ithe cost. That's th job. ImuraDce managers don't want fire, don't want to ihave to pay out, but they have to accept a calculated risk -- that's theirs. If there's no fire risk, there can be no fire insurance. Yet accident conceives and gives birth to blame. We know it hapof stable doors have been slammed after horses have bolted. What really happened in the library, anyway? In detail, Miranda didn't know. Were the alarms severed or switched off? Or were the wires which operated them burned or shorted by the fire itself? Nobody knew better than me that uhimatoly every additional safety device meant something more that could go wrong. Trinity Hall represented my hope of mental peace. If that didn't happen, if because of me that didn't happen, I believed I could live with the rest. I could be blamed and feel in my heart that blame was unjust. A car driver who kills a child may never be able to get it out of his mind -- but if he knows he was not at fault, he can live with it. If I'd been able to say to Miranda "save those people," and she'd said "why of course, Val," it would have been nothing. But I had to put up my own life. I valued it. I wanted it. I put up my stake, and I made sure I couldn't wdch. If the Trinity HaH youngsters and old folk were saved, I could be saved. # # 'That's funny," said Dina.  I paid no attention, still wrapped in my thoughts. "It's getting lighf," she said She was right and she was wrong. It was getting light, but it wasn't funny. Not when the stasis dis pear. It was Hell. Fierce heat swept across the village green. The fire outside, by comparison with what it had been, was a mere glow of dying embers. And yet... My bare flesh withstood the heat for a moment, until it dried and cracked. I couikl feel, or thought I could fed, my blood beginning to boil. My hair crawled, and I felt it singeing. In those long seconds of burning to death we looked around, while we could still see, in an instinctive search for an avenue of escape. Men have found themselves in front of oven doors opened by mistake... for them, even if they die, the chance of flight, of saving themselves, at least exists. The fire has a course and a direction. If the heat is lethal at seven feet it may not be at fourteen, fifty, two hundred. Escape is a possibility. But there was nowhere for us to go. The heat was all around us. The coolest place was and would continue to be where we were, practically in the center of what had recently been a haven in the conflagration. Dina's white blouse slowly, steadily, went brown. Greg, without regaining consciousness, writhed and twisted like a plastic doll dirown into an open fire. We screamed. We couldn't breatihe. The fire was using up all #iie oxygen. Long before we died, we couldn't see. We could still feel. I'd have been lucky, after all, to die on my own way through the ifiames with Greg. Iota had been lucky. Then, in the blinding heat of the fire at its height, death came instantly. Now it was slow, though no less sure. Slowly, but inexorably, I died. A nd came to life again. Of course. It was only to be expected. With Miranda and the giants around, death wasn't death and you could never be sure of Hfe. I still knew all that had happened. I knew and would always know what it was like to burn to death in the mere backwash of a great fire. Now I was unbumed, as I had once before been unkilled. The stasis was still in position. Dina's blouse was still white. And Greg was quietly snoring. Standing over me was Miranda, once more taking off her firesuit. She had dropped another at her feet. "Loops," I said drunkenly, "are enough to make a man loop the loop." "I was ten minutes too late," Miranda said. "But this time I could do something about it." She had a small machine in her hand. IF "Thank you vy much," I said. "Now we can go through the whole thing again. Because I'm still as determined -- ' "It's done," said Miranda. It took me several seconds to realize what she meant. "Trinity Hall?" I said at last. She nodded. "They agreed. Your life is necessary, Val. Perhaps Dina's too, we don't Imow. You had to be saved, far more than Jota had to be saved. In his case we guessed. In yours we know." "The people in the hall?" I said. She shrugged. "We cut the electric current. There was panic. One girl and one old man have broken aims. But they all got out. Now -- you have fifteen minutes." She could be lying, of course. She could be bluffing to get Dina and me away safely, quite powerless, once the giants removed themselves, to take the kind of action which could change the world. Once we saved ourselves, the chance of bargaining was gone. I didn't think Miranda herself would lie. But she might easily have been told to return and do what she was doing, say what she was saying. I started putting on one of the suits. Dina, with a slight shrug, did the same. Miranda sighed in relief. "We're going past Trinity Hall," I said. "If the bodies are still there, I'm coming right back." This didn't worry Miranda. "As you like." "You've got what you want?" I said. "You're satisfied?" "Yes." "You're sure?" I looked down at Gsreg, who lhad not moved. "Yes. In my worid there's already a big change. The Gift has disappeared. We don't iknow about the neutrals; maybe they're not needed any more. Now hurry up and -- " The suits were on and sealed. "We'll hurry," I said. "Because I need time to get back here and take off my suit if necessary." "Good, Val," said Miranda. Sbe tomed away. She didn't speak to Dina. I think at the last she was afraid, more afraid than she had ever been before, that something would happen to wrest success from her grasp. She had never really expected success, not with Grpg a member of the party. Now she was a big winner, dazed, with the ticket in her hand, waiting for the result of an objectum. I iMked down at Greg thoughtfully. Though he had never done a diing to endear himseilf to me, I found myself rather sorry for him. I said so. "He'll have psychiatric treatment," Miranda said. "iBefore, he'd have refused it. Now he can't." 'Tfou think he'll adjust?" "Why not? He's only fourteen." I blinked. I had never directly asked how old the giants were. I knew Miranda was thirty, but she was their teacher. "And the others?" I said. "You said Greg was in a younger class, didn't you?" "No. I said he was in a lower class. He's not very bright, you know. The others are... they're twelve." She had not looked at me since she said good-by. And that was how I left her -- terrified to speak to me again, to meet my eyes, in case I should say or do something that would bring everything tumbling about her ears. She even forgot to tell me to bury the suits afterwards. Dina and I made our way back through the dying fire. Trinity Hall was not easy to find: there was no pile of charred skeletons there any more. But we found it. I was satisfied. We went past the castle and the dump. It was still pretty dark. Clear of the fire we took off our suits and bundled them in a piece of dirty sacking I found in the dump, beyond the fire area. Knowing something of the progress of the fire, the giants bad chosen a quite perfect base for their doorway in time, the copse, and an equally perfect route to it. Even now, when there must be thousands of people round the ashpit that was Shuteley, we were able to walk out of the town and along the river to the copse without being seen. The only road or tracks were from the town, and they petered out at the dump and at Castle Hill. We did see a small party of men in blue suits examining the blockage of the river, but we were easily able to keep out of their sight. So they were all little ants of twelve, I thought. Well, it wasn't IF really astonishing. Already in # girls were developing at eleven instead of fourteen or fifteen, and at twelve they could be five feet six, # pounds and #-#-#. Boys were slower, but that was coming too. Dina didn't tadk, and I was glad. I'd been bludgeoned physically and mentally for forty hours or so. I'd killed a couple of people and been killed once m)elf. I'd been shaken figuratively until my teeth rattled. I had felt too much or too little in the last forty hours. I hadn't been a hero, I hadnt been a villain. I hadn't been very clever and I hadn't been very stupid. But I was, I hoped and believed, ending up rather better than I had started. I was far more the master of my fate. We took the route along the bank that the giants must have taken. But there was no longer a bridge, and the boat was on the other side. "Well have to swim," I said. Dina started taking off her clothes. "No," I said. "We don't want to leave anything here." "il didn't mean to leave my clothes. I'll carry them." "Just swim across as you are, Dina," I said wearSy. #fee paid no attention. She took off her blouse, skirt, nylons and shoes and folded them into a neat bundle which she held dear of the water as die slipped into the river. In my exhausted state I came very close to an angry outburst, but managed to oheck it. This was the new Dina. She used to do exactly as I told her. Now I'd have to get used to her thinking for herself. I had a bundle, too, the firesuits. I should have buried them that night. I should have done a lot of other things too. I didn't do any of them. I simply took off nay pants, dried myself and went to bd, not even bothering to find out what, if anything, Dina was doing, not thinking about Sheila beyond taking note that she hadn't been back at the house. A n arm shook me firmly, insistently. I opened my eyes reluctantly. It was #:# on the bedside clock. Sfttmg on my bed was a large, middle-aged man I didn't know. Yet his face wasn't entirely unfamiliar. 'Mr. Mathers," he said, "I'm Chief Constable Wilson. Sorry to disturb you, but it's important." "Sheila?" I exclaimed, sitting up quickly. "Your wife is quite all right, Mr. Mathers. Doing a grand job, in fact. And I've seen your sister. She didn't want to let me in, but I persuaded her." I swung my legs out of bed. My nakedness on some other summer might have shtly suiprised Wilson, As it was, it was nothing out of the ordinary. I put on a dressing gown. "What do you want?" I asked bluntly. "Forgive the intrusion," he said. "There isn't time to do tilings die usual way." "Never mind that," I said. "What do you want?" "I'm just getting the picture, Mr. Mathers. You know about the fire, of course?" "Yes." He pantomined surprise, and I thought: This man knows something. "You did?" he said. "You might have slept right through it, out here. I've seen one or two fire service people, the police, of course, some of the people who escaped..." "And now you're seeing me." "Yes. You haven't been in touch with your company yet, have you?" "No." He didn't say anything about the fire being tragic, fantastic, incredible. These things were said in the first few minutes, and then the situation was taken for granted. "Well, first... I gather you were out of town at a roadhouse when the fire began. You returned and found some firemen at the New Bridge. You gave them some advice -- good advice, I believe -- and then your wife did some very useful work with homeless people. After that you disappeared for the rest of the night. What happened, Mr. Mathers?" Without warning I was faced with a choice I hadn't foreseen. All through I had believed Miranda, on the whole. And now I faced the beginning of a situation which might mean ruin for Sheila and me and our children. Miranda said it did. I was going to be blamed for everything. My kids were going to grow up wanting to pretend I wasn't their father. I'd saved two hundred people at the Trinity Hall, but nobody knew I had saved them. Chief Constable Wilson was not here to cast the first stone. He was simply, as he said, getting first impression of what had happened. He had heard what happened at the New Bridge, and perhaps that was all he had heard. He might easily have called on me merely because I had shown some presence of mind, had given Sheila a useful job to do, and had then gone off on my own, possibly with a purpose... But this was the start. I did not, however, have to let things simply take their course. I could take events by the scruff of the neck. If I did, it might mean ruin for Miranda's world. Her river of time might be blasted into an entirely different course. It might not be the best thing for me either. Nevertheless. I opened a cupboard and took out the fire-suits. "Ever seen anything like these before?" I asked, T he die was cast. After I showed Chief Constable Wilson the firesuits, I couldn't have retreated if I'd wanted to. Certainly they were not impressive to look at, though the baffling way they adjusted to any human body and the still more baffling way in which they sealed and unsealed themselves without buttons or zips or adhesive woidd make anyone sit up and take notice. IF But sooner or later somebody would test them in a fire, and then a bigger fire -- and would finally discover that in such suits people could walk through a furnace. I didn't want to draw back. Neither did I make any effort to advance. In the next few hectic hours I talked to a lot of people, of increasing importance -- and I started with the chief constable of the county. I didn't see Sheila or Dina. Too many people wanted to ask me questions. I told them about Maggie Hobson and was the first to tell them she was dead. (It took days, of course, before even a prehminary casualty list could be drawn up.) I wasn't really shifting blame from they were going to decide for themselves. I told them a few more things about the fire, things I could not possibly have known in any way they considered "rational." I did not admit, nor did I deny, that I had been in Shutdey while the blaze was at its height They could handly make me #dl them anything they refused to bdieve. About Miranda and the giants I preserved a reticence which ensured that the most improbable facts were reluctantly accepted instead of rejected out of hand. I told them nothing; I admitted a few things undw pressure. But I did claim credit for Trinity Hall. I told them how the alarm was given, and hinted...  And before I saw Sheila, in the evening of the day after the Great Fire of Shutelcy, I knew that I'd made the right choice -- for us. You can't make a scapegoat of a man who knows more of the facts than anyone else. A man who knows things and you can't figure out how he could possibly know them. A man who knows more than he will tell, unless you've worked out three-quarters of the answer first. Yes, for us Fd made the right choice. And perhaps for Shuteley, for my world. The knowledge, the been something supernatural about the fhe made the whole thing easier to bear, to accept. For those who had lost people they loved, too, thane was hope. They might still be alive, somewhere. But had I done die right thing for Snow White and the giants? Had they all ceased to exist -- or had they found the Gift back among them, worse than ever before? Had on the woiki of #? Well, my attitude proved that I'd been doing Miranda and the giants an injustice afl along in finding them inhuman about our worid. Because about their world, I couldn't care less. 'k 'k if 'k Dear Editor: I tlunk that "Cordwainer Smith" is a pseudonym for a woman writer! About a year ago I remember reading in Galaxy (now, correct me if I am wrong) that Ck)rdwainer Smith -- an anthropologist, I think -- was on his way to Easter Island with some expedition. Later I read an article in Life about the same expedition, and I remember thinking at the time that I might get to see what Cordwainer Smith looked like. But no luck. The only anthropologist mentioned was a woman, whose name I can't remember. (She was known to the natives as "Mrs. Tell Me Three Dreams That Have Had Some Meaning to You.") Then in the letter column of the May If Irvin Koch asked if Cordwainer Smith was a pseudonym and you answered that it was. Suddenly all the pieces fell together like a jigsaw puzzle. Cordwainer Smith and the woman anthropologist are one and the same person! Would you please let me know if I am right or wrong? The suspense (By the way, I got so heated up with my Sherlock-Holmesing that I forgot to tell you that I really like your magazine! If you keep up this habit of overlapping all those great serials and publishing a stack of other great stories besides, you have got the next Hugo sewn up in your hip pocket for sure! -- James A. Juracic, P.O. Box #, Fruitvale, B.C., Canada. # No, your reasoning is exemplary, but your conclusion didn't quite make it. Cordwainer Smith was a pseudonym for Professor Paul Linebarger, of Johns Hopkins University. For years his identity was one of the most closely guarded secrets in science fiction -- partly because of the fact that his position as a consultant to the U. S. State Department made discretion essential, partly because he wrote science fiction for relaxation and felt that he would not be able to do it any more if his identity were known. Last month (as this is written), after a long illness. Paul Linebarger died in Washington, D.C. For this reason we can now disclose his identity -- but that is small compensation for the loss of a valued writer. -- Editor,    Dear Editor: In regard to the relativistic dilemma you posed in the Juiie, #, issue, your statements are basically correct in that it would require an infinite amount of energy to proxel an object with a iositive rest mass up to the speed of light because as it approaches the speed of light it acquires infinite mass. The fallacy in the dilemma is that light at rest (photons) has no mass. Thus, theoretically, it requires no energy to raise the massless photons up to sub-light speeds and only finite energy to propel them to the speed of light; this eneigy being converted into the apparent mass of the light. In regard to the remarks made in the June Hue and Cry concerning racial differences, I would like to add my two bits. The white man has certain obvious psysical characteristics which are superior to the Negro, whereas the Negro has certain others superior to the white man. This is also true in the pathological, and probably also true in the mental aspects of not only these two races but all the races of man. As soon as we do obtain 'roughly equated" environments for the different races and can determine each race's mental superiorities then sometime in the future it may be possible to breed a better man Incorporating all the best features of the different races. To say this, or anything else, is impossible at ithe rate of our present technological and sociological advancement is to stand on very unsteady ground. I have read the World of NulUA by Van Vogt and am very much interested in reading its aerial. If it has been published in paper or hard back, where and how much, or if not, how can I igo about obtaining a oopy. Oh, as an afterthought, I might add that I consider If the best science fiction magazine on the market today. The Moon is a Harsh Mistress is Heinlein's grreatest novel to date, and that is really saying something, and Earthblood is great. I can hardly wait for the upcoming novels in If. -- Alfred Baker, # Lawson Lane, Amarillo, Texas #.    Dear Editor: Although he and I concur on two points, the respective merits of Podkayne of Mars and FarnhanCs Freehold, I must take exception to Sten D'lskcg's treatment of what I consider Heinleiias best novel to date. Mr. Dahlskog says that even if it were kept in that most horrible of literary forms the first-person narrative, (which I happ to like), the novel would (have been far better if it were "writteaL" by Wyoh, Prof or Stu, instead of by Mannie. What he doesn't realize is that the central character is not one of the "B"cell comrades, or Stu. As a matter of fact, the citral character isn't even human; on the contrary, nitive computer to make predictions, keep security, and formulate strategy, the revolution eouM never have started, much less succeeded. Also, if you remember the conclusion of the story, only Mannie could have written it. I say this because, as Mr. Dohlskog himself notes, ihe other three, met Mike, just Adam Selene"!), were more concerned with people, while Mike was a computer. In fact. Man was the only believable narrator Heinleln could iossibly have chosen; who else would have even discovered Mike, much lose made friends with ihim? -- Stephan Noe, # Havenhurst Blvd., Toledo, Ohio #.   Dear Editor: First let me congratulate Worlds of If on winning the "Hugo" at the Tricon in Cleveland. It was most deserved ! At the Tricon a number of your readers, myself included, were discussing the formation of a sciencefiction radio "ham" net. This consists of readers who are also radio amateurs, who would like to discuss sf across the country via the airwaves. I thought perhaps some of your readers might like to join us in forming the net. If so, they could send their names and call letters to me and ##I take it from there. Thanks. -- Christine Haycock, M.D., Newark, New Jersey #.   Dear Editor: ' Re: The editorial for the August # issue of If: Yes, it os a shame Mariner IV came along! It not only spoiled theories dear to some hearts, it also upheld one theory -- one that had been ridiculed, vilified and ostracized from most public and scientific commundoation channels. I refer, of course, to the theories of Dr. Immanuel Vedikovsky, author of Worlds in Collision, etc,, in which he detailed -- and Mariner IV confirms -- the description of a "dead planet Mars and the cause of its destruction... the collision between it and the protoplanet (comet) Venus... The present writer thinks that the many recent confirmations of Dr. Velikovskys theories augurs well the need for a reassessment of his works and their implications for the future. -- Robert Stephanos, # Quentin Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #. He #l  Dear Editor: We would just like to express our great enjo # mient of Fred Saberhagens beserker tales. We can hardly wait until the next installment of his saga. When will some enterprising publisher persuade him to gather all the stories under one cover? Its quite a pleasure to watch a writer improve and mature as Saberhagen has. Stories with strong moral themes are all too rare. Your efforts to discover and encourage new taints are to be commended. We are graduate students at the been reading science fiction since high school. -- John and Sandra Miesel, # S. Fifth St., Champaign,   # Dear Editor: Neutron Stcur by Larry Niven was the first science-fiction story Ive ever really enjoyed. I also would like to say that Michael Walker did an exceptional job in Your Soldier Unto Death. I have read parts of several past issues which my friend happened to enjoy. All around I will say that If is one of the best science fiction magazines I have ever read and I shall continue to buy your If publications monthly. -- Thomas Green, # Knoxville Avenue, Lakewood, California #. IF won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. CF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." Yr Name Here No. CM-# by Cullen Rapp No. CX-# by Lynd Ward # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! Famed epic of the world of the fixture Foundation Trilogy "Dy # it was clear that the massively corrupt Galactic Empire was near total collapse. Its myriad worlds had already begun to war among themselves, plunging the universe into barbaric chaos. Civilization seemed doomed. But master scientists laboring to ensure that civilization would be preserved during the dark ages to come, established twin "Foundations" at opposite ends of the Galaxy, to form the nueleui of a new civilization, and in time to unite across the Galaxy to form a new... a stronger... a more enduring Second Empire. In Foundation and Foundation and Empire, we follow the course of the First Foundation as it rekindles the light of civilization in an everincreasing portion of the Galaxy -- and as it in confronted by its greatest crisis: a dangerous aoul-eonuming deaire is conquest of the Galaxy! Within a decade, he tyrannized the entire Galaxy -- except for the Second Foundation. And this became his mania -- to find and conquer the Second Foundation. Everything in the Galaxy must be his!... combines three great science fiction classics for the first the most thought-provoking, compelling epics ever to come fromthe pen of the distinguished research biochemist and leading science fiction writer, Isaac Asimov. How to Oot This Unysuol Volvo tor only lOy Because you enjoy Science thrillers, the Science Fiction Book Club would like to acquaint you with the most imaginative, informative, entertaining new science fiction books as they are written. That is why we have arranged to send you Subscription to the Club. Here's how the Club works: each month it offers a really superb new science fact or fiction book at a fraction of its regular price. Even though these book.s sell for #, .? # and up in their original editions. Club members get them tions, Extra value books cost more. And the Club tells you in advance what each monthly .election will be. During your Trial Subscription you agree to take as few as four books in the next twelve months. After that you may take as few or as many books as you want, and you may cancel at any time. It's a deal that is hard to beat. Mail Coupon With Only I Of # with a short trial membership. After seven days, if you will be canceled. Otherwise you will be enrolled in the Club as a Trial Member, and you need take only four books in the next twelve months. Mail the coupon today to : Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, New York I enclose lOe to liel) cover shipi)injr. riea.se rii'Ii and enroll me as a Trial Memlier In the riiih. Then, every month send me the Cluh's free tiullefin, "TliitiKs to rome." which descrihc'. eominj: selections. For each hook T aciept. I will pay .#. plus shlpitinjr. unless T take an extra value selection at a hlRher price. T need take only forr hooks within a year and may resign at any time thereafter. it in # days, pay nothins:. owe nothlnjr. and tny memleiship will he canceled. (Offer good in U S. A. only) I#-S#A  A New Relief Novelette by Keith Laumer by Larry Niven' and many other stories by Science Fiction's favorite authors Your Subscription is Your Private Window On the stars in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Gaiaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a Stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Galaxy Publishing Corp. #I Hudson Street  New York, N.Y. #  Yes, start my subscription to Galaxy right away. I enclose  my check or money order for:  # # issues for .# O # issues for #   Name  Address  City  State Zip Code  U.S. only. Add #c per issue foreign postage. Please check whether Q new or  renewal. Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smith The Big Time Fritz Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do i Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #S#) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants) Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey Vol. #, No. # Frederik Poht, Editor David Peiion, Production Manager Robert M, Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by Larry Niven by Keith Laumer by Richard Wilson by C. C. MacApp by Algis Budrys by Bruce McAllister by Robert Roy by Mather H. Walker by Frederik Pohi by Lin Carter IF published menthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President. Vol. #. No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York. # #c per copy. Subscription # Issues # In tbe United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class posta paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. CopTiight by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #a All rights, including translations reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # IF  Editorial O nce upon a time we were noted for making pronounoemeints about what writers ireally ishould be doing with their (time. "There are two kinds of writers," we used to say. "The kind who write, and the kind who talk. The kind who talk are a lot wittier and brighter and better company; but the kind who write are the ones to pay attention to -- after all, that's the name of the game." And then we smugly pointed out that we were The Kind Who Wrote. Candor compels us to announce that this is no longer entirely true. Over the past few years we've been dolntg a whale of la lot of talking -- on radio and on television, to fan groups and scientific groups and management associations and literary clubs and churches and temples and... well, you name it, we've done it, our motto has become. Have Mouth, Will Travel. This is not the kind of news bulletin that we ordinarily take up your time with in these pages, but it has its interesting aspects. You know -- what in the world does a science-fiction writer have to say to, for instance, the American Management Association or the Porcelain Enamel Institute? G lad you asked the question. Here's the answer: What we tell the various business, professional and other groups is basically a sort of science-fiction story. We start with what is now happening in science and society; we extrapolate with a free hand; and we show what the world may be like for them, and for all of us, over the next few decades or centuries.  Essentially what we tell them is a science-fiction story without plot or characters. And most of the time there is a discussion period, or at least a few questions passed up by the ProigTam Committee from the o our total representation in the floor, and so we get some sort of populace is maybe a half of one idea of what the audiences gain from per cent. all this; and, curiously enough, the But judging from our contacts things that interest them are very with the # majority, we should muchthe things that interest us be reaching at least half of them -- dieddn-the-wool fans. Life on other or rather, half of that portion of worlds? They're as curious about it them able to read and write fluently as we are. Robots and androids? in the English language, anyway. They're quite as intrigued as we Why are so many people turned off about the idea of creating artificial to science fiction? -- when really, intelligences to help us out -- or it's the kind of thing they're inkeep us company. If the ten or twenterested in, did they but know it? ty thousand people we've talked to in the flesh in recent times are a 'Tat isn't a rhetorical question, fair sample, we don't have any monJL If anyone has the answer, we'd opoly in curiosity about the future. be glad to know it. Because it's all And yet clearly there's some kind very well to be a proud but tiny of a difference between Them and elite; but it's even more fun to Us. What can it be? be the advance guard of an enorFor one thing, there are a lot mous new movement; and apart more of Them than there are of from what good it would do us to for the moment, there's a gross sf, think of what good it would do population of some #, of them. To the extent that science whom maybe a hundred thousand fiction is more than fun, it is an will read any given magazine more authentic help at the vit task of or less frequently, and perhaps five being ready for tomorrow when it times as many will read whatever comes... and tomorrow is coming magazine or book is handy at the very fast for all of us. We all need rate of one a month or thereabouts, every bit of advance warning we and perhaps ten times as many will can get; and all the TV documenpick up Galaxy or the latest Heintaries and lAfe-Time-Newsweek lein novel once or twice a year, takeouts don't comiare with the There are really only about a immediacy we get when we project readers in the United States (not science-fiction story, counting that larger number who Must be some way to turn Them IF  Novelette dead, but some of their weaponry survived -- and could destroy Man! L ogically Jason Papandreou should have taken the Court Jester straight home to Jinx. But -- He'd seen a queer star once. He'd been single then, a gunner volunteer on one of Earth's warships during the last stages of the last kzinti war. The war had been highly imequal in Earth's favor. Kzinti fight gallantly and ferociously and with no concept of mercy, and they always take on several times as much as they can handle. Earth's ships had pushed the kzinti back out of human space, then pushed a little further, annexing two kzinti worlds for punitive damages. The fleets had turned for home. But Jason's captain had altered course to give his crew what might be their last chance to see Beta Lyrae. Now, decades later, Jason, his wife and their single alien passenger were rattling around in a ship built for ten times their number. Anne-Marie's curiosity was driving her up the walls with the frustration of not being able to open the stasis box in the forward locker. Nessus the mad puppeteer had taken to spending all his time in his room, hovering motionless and morose between the sleeping pjates. Jinx was still several weeks away. Clearly a diversion was in order. Beta Lyrae. A six degree shift in course would do it. A nne-Marie glared at the locker containing the stasis box. "Isn't there any way to open it? Jason didn't answer. His whole attention was on the mass indicator, the transparent ball in which a green radial line was growing toward the surface. Growing and splitting. "Jay?" "We can't open it, Anne. We don't have the equipment to break a stasis field. It's illegal anyway." Almost time. The radial double line must not grow too long. When a working hyperdrive gets too deep into a gravity well, it disappears. "Think they'll tell us what's inside?" "Sure, unless it's a new weapon." "With oiu luck it will be. Jay, nobody's ever found a stasis box that shape before. It's bound to be something new. The Institute is likely to sit on it for years and years. -- Whup! Jay, what are you doing?" "Dropping out of hyperspace." "You might warn a lady." She wrapped both arms around her midsection, apparently making sure everything was still there. "Lady, why don't you have a look out that side window?" "What for?" Jason merely looked smug. His wife, knowing she would get no other answer, got up and undogged the cover. It was not unusual for a pilot to drop-out in the depths of interstellar space. Weeks of looking at the blind-spot appearance of hyperspace could wear on the best of nerves. She stood at the window, a tall, slender brunette in a glowing green falling jumper. A Wunderlander she had been, of the willowy low-gravity type rather than the fat, balloonlike low-gravity type, until Jason Papandreou had dropped out of the sky to add her to his collection of girls in every port. It hadn't worked out that way. In the first year of marriage she had learned space and the Court Jester inside out, until she was doubly indispensable. Jay, Anne, Jester, all one independent organism. And she thought she'd seen everything. But she hadn't seen this! Grinning, Jason waited for her reaction. "Jay, it's gorgeous! What is it?" Jason moved up to circle iher waist with one arm. She'd put on weit in the last year, muscle weighty from moving in heavier gravities. He looked out around her shoulder... and thought of smoke. There was smoke across the sky, a trail of red smoke wound in a tight spiral coil. At the center of the coil was the source of the fire. A double star. One member was violet-white, a flame to brand holes in a human retina, its force held in check by the polarized window. The companion was small and yellow. They seemed to burn inches apart, so close that their masses had pulled them both into flattened eggs, so close that a red belt of lesser flame looped around them to link their bulging equators together. The belt was hydrogen, still mating in fusion fire, pulled loose from the stellar surfaces by two gravitational wells in conflict. The gravity war did more than that. It sent a loose end of the red belt flailing away, away and out in a burning maypole spiral that expanded from flame-red to smokered, bracketing the sky and painting a spiral path of stars deep red across half the universe. "They call it Beta Lyrae," said Jason. "I was here once before, back when I was free and happy. Mph. Hasn't changed much." "Well, nor "Now don't you take all this for granted. How long do you think those twins can keep throwing hydroand then, pft! No more Beta Lyrac." "Pity. We'd better hurry and wake Nessus before it disappears." T he being they called Nessus would not have opened his door for them. Puppeteers were gregarious even among alien species. They'd had to be. For at least tens of thousands of years the puppeteers had ruled a trade empire which included all the races within the sixty-light-year sphere men called Known Space and additional unknown regions whose extent could not be guessed. As innate cowards the puppeteers had to get along with everyone. And Nessus too was usually gregarious. But Nessus was mad. Nessus was cursed with courage. In a puppeteer courage is a symptom of insanity. As usual there were other symptoms, other peripheral indications of the central disorder. Nessus was now in the depressive stage of a manic-depressive cycle. Luckily the depression had not hit him until his business with the Outsiders was over. In the manic stage he had been fun. He had spent every night in a different stateroom. He had charcoal-drawn cartoons which now hung in the astrogation room, cartoons which Jason could hardly believe were drawn by a puppeteer. Humor is generally linked to an interrupted defense mechanism. Puppeteers weren't supposed to have a sense of humor. But now Nessus spent all his time in one room. He wanted to see nobody. There was one thing he might open his door for. IF Jason moved to the control board and pushed the panic button. The alarm was a repeated recording of a woman's scream. It should have brought the puppeteer galloping in as if the angel of death were at his heel. But he trotted through the door seconds later than he should have. His flat, brainless heads surveyed the control room for signs of damage. The first man to see a puppeteer had done so during a Campish revival of Time for Beany reruns. He had come running back to the scout ship, breathless and terrified, screaming, 'Take off! The planet's full of monsters!" "Whatta they look like?" "Like a three-legged centaur with two Cecil the Seasick Sea Serpent puppets on its hands, and no head." "Take a pill, Pierson. You're drunk." Pierson's Puppeteer is a sentient herbivore whose brain is housed in a bony bulge between the two long, flexible necks. The heads at the ends of those necks are mostly jaws, furnished with flexible lips and tongues. If a man had jawmuscle strength in his grip and the senses of taste and smell in his fingertips, his hands would be as good at tool-building as a puppeteer's mouth. A flowing brown mane covers the cranial bulge and runs in a strip along the spine to the hind hip. Nessus was an atypical puppeteer. His mane was straggly and unkept. It should have been twisted, brushed and tied in a manner to show his status in puppeteer society. But it showed no status at all. Perhaps thiift was appropriate. There was no puppeteer society. The puppeteers had apparently left the galaxy en masse some twelve years ago, leaving behind only their insane and their genetically deficient. "What is wrong?" asked Nessus. "There's nothing wrong," said Jason. Anne-Marie said, "Have a look out the window. This window." T heir employer obediently moved to the window. He happened to stop just next to one of the cartoons he'd drawn while in the manic phase, and Jason, looking from the puppeteer to the cartoon, found it more difficult than ever to associate the two. The cartoon showed two hiunan gods. Only the lighting and the proportions showed that they were gods. Otherwise they were as individually human as a very good human artist could have drawn them. One, a child just about to become a teenager, was holding the galaxy in his hands. He wore a very strange grin as he looked down at the glowing multicolored spiral. The other figure, a disgruntled patriarch with flowing white hair and beard, was saying, "All right, now that you've had your little joke..." Nessus claim it was an attempt to imitate human humor. Maybe. Would an insane puppeteer develop a sense of humor? Nessus (his real name sounded like a car crash set to music) was insane. There were circumstances under which he would actually risk his life. But the sudden puppeteer exodus bad left a m)oiad of broken promises made to a dozen sentient races. The puppeteers had left Nessus and his fellow exiles with money to straighten things out. So Nessus had rented the Court Jestery rented all twelve staterooms, and gone out to the furthest edge of known space to deal with a ship of the Outsiders. "I recognize this star," he said now. "Amazing. I really should have suggested this stop myself. Had I not been so depressed I certainly would have. Thank you, Jason." "My pleasure, sir." Jason Papandreou really sounded like he'd invented the gaudy display just to cheer up a down-in-the-mouths puppeteer. Nessus cocked a sardonic head at him, and he hastily added, "We'll be on our way again whenever you're ready." "I'll scan with deep-radar," AnneMarie said helpfully. Jason laughed. "Can you imagine how many ships must have scanned this system already?" "Just for luck." A moment later there was a Beep. Anne-Marie yelped. Jason said, "I don't believe it." "Two in one trip!" his wife cared. "Jay, that's some sort of ecord!" It was. Using deep-radar had been more of a habit than anything else. A deepHTadar on high setting was an easy way to find Slaver stasis boxes, since ## stasis fields and neutron stars woidd reflect a hyperwave pulse. But Beta Lyrae must have been searched many times before. Searching was traditional. Nessus turned from the window. "I suggest that we locate the box, then leave it. You may send a friend for it." Jason stared. "Leave it? Are you kidding?" "It is an anomaly. Such a box should have been found long since. It has no reason to be here in the first place. Beta Lyrae probably did ago. Why then would the Slavers have come here?" "War. They might have been running from a tnuctip fleet." Anne-Marie was sweeping the deep-radar in a narrow beam, following the smoky spiral, searching for the tiny node of stasis her first pulse had found. "You hired my ship," Jason said abruptly, "If you order me to go on, I'll do it." "I will not. Your species has come a long way in a short time. If you do not have prudence, you have some workable susbstitute." "There it is," said Anne-Marie. "Look, Jay. A little icy blob of a Jason looked. "Shouldn't be any problem. All right. I'll take us down." Nessus said nothing. He seemed alert enough, but without nervousness and general excitability that woidd have meant the onset of his manic stage. At least Beta Lyrae had cured his depression. n Te Traitofs Claw was under the 'L ice. Ice showed dark and deep IF outside her hexagonal ports. In lieu of sight her crew used a mechanical sense like a cross between radar and X-ray vision. The universe showed on her screens as a series of transparent images superimposed: a shadow show. Four kzinti watched a blobshaped image sink slowly through other images, come to a stop at a point no different from any other. "Ohuft-Captain, they're down," said Flyer. "Of course they're down." ChuftCaptain spoke without heat. "Telepath, how many are there?" 'Two human." There was a quiet, self-hating resignation in the Telepath's speech. His tone became disgust as he added, "And a puppeteer." "Odd. That's a passenger ship. A puppeteer couldn't need all that room." "I sense only their presence, OhuftCaptain." Telepath was pointedly reminding him that he had not yet taken the drug. He would do so only if ordered. Without an injection of treated extract of sthondat lymph his powers were low. Little more than the knack for making an accurate guess. "One human has left the ship," said Flyer. "No, two humans." "Slaverstudent, initiate hostilities. Assume the puppeteer will stay safely inside." T he planet was no bigger than Earth's moon. Her faint hydrogen atmosphere must have been regularly renewed as the spiral streamer whipped across her orbit. She was in the plane of the hydrogen spiral, which now showed as a glowing red smoke trail cutting the night sky into two unequal parts. Anne-Marie finished tucking her hair into her helmet, clamped the helmet to her neck ring, and stepped out to look around. "I dub thee Cue Ball," she said. "Cute," said Jason. 'Too bad if she's named already." They moved through the ship's pressure curtain, Jason toting a bulky portable deep-radar. The escalladder carried them down into the ice. They moved away, following the dark image in the deep-radar screen. Jason was a head shorter than his wife and twice as wide; his typical Earther's build looked almost Jinxian next to hers. He moved easily in the low gravity. Anne-Marie, bouncing like a rubber clown, kept pace with him only by dint of longer legs and greater effort. Jason was standing right over the image of the stasis box, getting ready to mark the ice so they could dig for it, when the image vanished. The crack! jerked his head around. He saw a cloud of steam explode into the near-vacuum, a cloud lit from below by a rosy light. AnneMarie was already sprinting for the ship in low flying leaps. He turned to follow. A form like a big, roly-poly man shot through the light into what must by then have been a cloud of tiny ice crystals. It was a kzin in a vac suit, and the thing in its ihand was a police stunner. It landed running. Under the conditions its aim was inhumanly accurate. Jason collapsed like a deflating name. Had he not been alone with balloon. Anne-Marie was pin-wheelthe prisoners he would have been ing across the ice, slowly as dreams showing fear. His crew watched the im the low gravity. The kzin ignored proceedings from the control room, them both. It was using a jet backThe puppeteer lifted a head at the pac to speed it along. end of a drunkenly weaving neck. The ship's heavy, flush-fitting The head steadied, stared hard. In door started to dose over the preskzin he said, "What is the purpose sure curtain. Too slowly. Jason clung of this action?" to consciousness long enough to see Chuft-Captain ignored him. One die kzin's hackpac carry it up the did not speak as an equal to a escalladder and through the prespuppeteer. Puppeteers did not fight, sure curtain. His mind hummed and ever. Hence they were herbivorous faded. animals. Prey. The male human was next to reP resent in the crew's relaxroom cover from the stunners. He stared were two humans, one puppein consternation at Chuft-Captain, teer, and a kzin. The kzin was Chuftthen looked around him. "So none Captain. It had to be that way, of us made it," he said, since the prisoners had not had the "No," said the puppeteer. "You chance to refuse to tdk. Chuft-Capmay remember I advised -- " tain was a noble, entitled to a partial "How could I forget? Sorry about IF n that, Nessus. What's happening?" "Very little at the moment." The male looked backed at OiuftCaptain. "Who are you?" "You may call me Captain. Depending on future events, you are either my kidnap victims or my prisoners of war. Who are you?" "Jason Papandreou, of Earth origin." The human tried to gesture, perhaps to a point at himself, and found the electronic police web binding him in an invisible grip. He finished the introductions without gestures. "Very well," said Chuft-Captain. "Jason, are you in possession of a stasis box, a relic of the Slaver empire?" J  "No." Chuft-Captain gestured to the screen behind the prisoners. Telepath nodded and switched off. The prisoner had lied; it was now permissible to bring in help to question him. It had been a strange, waiting kind of war. Legally it was no war at all. The Traitofs Claw showed in the Kzin records as a stolen ship. If she had been captured at any time, all the kzin worlds would have screamed loudly for Chuft-Captain's head as a pirate. Even the ship's name had been chosen for that eventuality. There had never been a casualty; never, until now, a victory. A strange war, in which the rules were flexible and the dictates of personal honor were often hard to define and to satisfy. Even now... What does one do with a captured puppeteer? You couldn't eat him; puppeteers were officially a friendly power. A strange war -- but better than no war at all. Perhaps it would now get better still. T he kzin had asked one question and turned away. A bad sign. Apparently the question had been a formality... Jason wriggled once more against the force field. He was embedded like a fly in flypaper. It must be a police web. Since the last war the kzinti worlds had been living in probationary status. Though they might possess and use police restraint devices, they were allowed no weapons of war. Against two unarmed humans and a puppeteer, they hardly needed them. Anne-Marie stirred. Jason said, "Easy, honey." "Easy? Oh, my neck. What happened?" She tried to move her arm. Her head, above the soft grip of the police web, jerked up in surprise; her eyes widened. And she saw the kzin. She screamed. The kzin watched in obvious irritation. Nessus merely watched. "All right' said Jason. "That won't do us any good." "Jay, they're kzinti! "Right. And they've got us. Oh, hell, go ahead and scream." That shocked her. She looked at him long enough to read his helplessness, then turned back to the kziji. Already she was calmer. Jason didn't have to worry about his wife's courage. He'd seen it tested before. She had never seen a kzin; all she knew about them she had heard from Jason, and little of that had been good. But she was no xenophobe. There was more sympathy of feeling between Anne-Marie and Nessus than there was between Nessus and Jason. She could face the kzin. But he couldn't read the puppeteer's expression. It was Nessus he was worried about. Puppeteers hated pain worse than they feared death. Let the kzin threaten Nessus with pain and there was no telling what he'd do. Without the puppeteer they might have a chance to conceal the stasis box. It might be very bad if the kzinti got into a stasis box. there had been a war. The Slavers, who controlled most of the galaxy at the time, had also controlled most of the galaxy's sentient species. One such slave species, the tnuctipun, had at last revolted The Slavers had had a power like telepathic hypnosis, a powerthat could control the mind of any sentient being. The tnuctipun slaves had possessed high intelligence, higher technology and a slyness more terrifying than any merely mental power. Slave'rs and tnuctipun slaves alike, and every sentient being then in the galaxy, had died in that war. Scattered through known and unknown space were the relics of that war, waiting to be found by species which had become sentient since the war's end. The Slavers had left stasis boxes, containers in stasis fields which had survived unchanged IF of time. The tnuctipun had left mutated remnants of their biological engineering: the frumious bandersnatch of Jinx's shorelines, the stage trees which were to 'be found on worlds scattered all across known space, the tiny cold-world sunflowers with their rippling reflective blossoms. Stasis boxes were rare and dangerous. Often they held abandoned Slaver weapons. One such weapon, the variable-sword, had recently revolutionized human society, bringing back swordplay and dueling on many worlds. Another was being used for peaceful ends; the disintegrator was too slow to make a good weapon. If the kzinti found a new weapon, and if it were good enough... r ieir kzinti captor was a big one, thought Jason, though even a small one was a big one. He stood eight feet tall, as erect as a human on his short hind legs. The orange shade of his fur might have been inconspicuous to a kzin's natural prey, but to human eyes it blazed like neon. He was thick all over, arms, legs, torso; he might have been a very fat cat dipped in orange dye, with certain alterations. You would have had to discount the naked pink ratlike tail, the strangely colored irises which were round instead of slitted, and especially the head, rendered nearly triangular by the large cranial bulge, more than large enough to hold a human brain. "The trap you stumbled into is an old one," said, the kzin. "One ship or another has been waiting on this world since the last war. We have 'been searching out Slaver stasis boxes for much longer than that, hoping to find new weapons." A door opened, and a second kzin entered. It stayed there in the dilated doorway, waiting for the leader's attention. There was something about its appearance -- "But only recently did we hit upon this idea. You may know," said their orange captor, "that ships often stop off to see this unusual star. Ships of most species also have the habit of sending a deepradar pulse around every star they happen across. No student of Shavers has ever found method behind the random dispersion of stasis boxes throughout this region of space. "Several decades ago we did find a stasis box. Unfortunately it contained nothing useful, but we eventually found out how to turn the stasis field on and off. It made good bait for a trap. For forty Kzin years we have waited for ships to happen by with stasis boxes in their holds. You are our second catch." "You'd have done better finding your own boxes," said Jason. He had been examining the silent kzin. This one was smaller than eir interrogator. His fur was matted. His tail drooped, as did his pointed ears. For a kzin the beast was skinny, and misery showed in his eyes. As certainly as they were aboard a fighting ship, this was not a fighting kzin. 'We would have been seen. Earth would have acted to stop our search." Apparently dismissing the subject, their interrogator turned to Ihe smaller kzin and spat out an imitation of cats fighting. The smaller kzin turned to face them. A pressure took hold of Jason's mind and devdoped into a sudden tting headache. He had expected it. It was a strange thing, hut -- put a sane alien next to an insane one, and usually you could tell them apart. And kzinti were much closer to human than were any other species; so close that they must at one time have had common microbe ancestors. This smaller kzin was obviously half crazy. And he wasn't a fighter. To be in this place at this time, he had to be a trained telepath, a forced addict of the kzinti drug that sent nine himdred and ninety-nine of out a thousand kainti insane and left the survivor a shivering neurotic. He concentrated on remembering the taste of a raw carrot. Just to be difficult. Ill depath sagged against a wall, A utterly spent. He could still taste yellow root munched between flat-topped teeth. Chuft-Captain watched without sympadiy, waiting. He forced (himself to speak. "Chuft-Captain, they have not hidden the stasis box. It may be found in a locker to the left of the control room. Chuft-Captain turned to the wall screen. "See to it. And get the puppeteer's pressure suit. Then seal the ship. Flyer and Slaverotiident acknowledged and dgned off. "The relic. Where'd they; find it?" "Chuft-Captain, they did not. The stasis box was found in deep interstellar space, considerably closer to the Core, by a ship of Ae Outsiders. The Outsiders kept it to trade in known space." "What business did the prisoners have with the Outsiders?" "The puppeteer had business with them. It merely used die humans for transportation. The humans do not know what business it was." Chuft-Captain spat in reflex fury, but of course he could not ask a kzin to read the mind of a herbivore. Telepath wouldn't, and would have to be disciplined; or he would, and would go insane. Nor could Chuft-Captain use pain on the puppeteer. He would get the information if it was worthless; but if the puppeteer decided it was valuable, it would commit suicide. "Am I to assume that the Outsiders did in fact sell die relic to the prisoners?" "Chuft-Captain, they did. The sum was a puppeteer's recorded stars in human money." "A lordly sum." "Perhaps more than lordly. Chuft-Captain, you may know that the Outsiders are long#ived. The male human has speculated that they intend to return in one or more thousands of years, when die recording of a puppeteer's voice is an antique worth eights of times its face value." "Urrr. I shouldn't stray into such byways, but -- are they really that long-lived?" IF Chuft-Captain, the Outsider ship was following a starseed in order to trace its migratory pattern." 'Urrr-rrrl" Starseeds lived long enough to make mating migrations from the galactic core to e rim and 'back, moving at average speeds estimated at point eight lights... A patterned knock. The others entered, wearing pressure " suits with the helmets thrown back. Flyer carried the puppeteer's pressure suit, a three-legged balloon with padded mittens for the mouths, small clawed boots, an extra bulge for a food pouch and a hard, padded shield to cover the cranial hump. Slaverstudent carried a cylinder with a grip-notched handle. Its entire surface was a perfectly reflecting mirror: the sign of Ae Slaver stasis field. The prisoners, the human ones, were silently glaring. Their posttelepathy headaches had not helped their dispositions. Telepath was resting from the aftereffects of the drug. "Open it," said Chuft-Captain. Slaverstudent removed an empty cubical box from the table, set the stasis box in its place and touched a pressure-sensitive surface at the table's edge. The cylinder ceased to be a distorting mirror. It was a bronzy metal box which popped open of its own accord. The kzin called Slaverstudent reached in and brought out: A silvered bubble six inches in diameter, with a sculptured handle attached. The handle would not have fit any gripping appendage ChuftCapvtain knew of. A cube of law meat in something like a plastic sandwich wrap. A hand. An alien hand lurmshed with three massive, clumsynlooldng fingers set like a mechanical grid). It had 'been dipped in something that formed a clear, hard coating. One thick finger wore a chronometer. # A bad thing has happened," said Nessus. The kzin who had opened the box seemed terribly excited. He turned the preserved hand over and over, yowrling in kzinti. Then he put it down and picked up the bubblewith-a-handle. "Let me guess," said Jason. "That's not a Slaver box. It's a tnuctipun box." "Yes. The first to be found. The handle on the bubble tool is admirably designed to fit a tnuctip hand. The preserved Slaver must be a trophy -- I am quoting the student of Slavers. Jason, this may be a disaster. The tnuctipun were master technologists." The "student of Slavers" was running his padded, retractile-clawed hands over the sphere-with-a-handie. No detail at aH. showed on the sphere; it was the same mirrorcolor as the stasis field which had disgorged it. The handle was bronzy metal. There were grooves for six fingers and two long, opposed thumbs; there was a button set in an awkward position. A deep, straight groove ran down the side, with a guide and nine notched settings. Anne-Marie spoke in a low voice. "Looks like the handle of a gun." "We need information," said Jason. "Nessus, is that higger kzin the boss? The one who speaks Interworld?" "Yes. The one with the bubble tool is a student of the Slaver Empire. The one with the white stripe is the pilot. The mind reader is resting. We need not fear him for several hours." "But the boss kzin understands Interworld. Do the others?" I think not. Your inaptly named Interworld is difficult for nonhumans to learn and to pronounce." "Good. Anne, how are you doing?" "I'm scared. We're in big trouble, aren't we, Jay?" "We are. No sense fooling ourselves. Any ideas?" "You know me, Jay. In a pinch I usually know who to call for help. The integrator if the house stops, the taxi company when a transfer booth doesn't work. Step into an autodoc when you feel sick. If your lift belt fails you diel E for Emergency on your pocket phone. If someone answers before you hit the ground, scream." She tried a smile. "Jay? Who do we call about Ikzinti kidnappings?" He smiled back. "You write a forceful note to the Patriarch of Kzin. Right, Nessus?" "Also you threaten to cut off trade. Do not worry too much, Anne-Marie. My species is expert at staying alive."  Tndoubtedly a weapon," said  Slaverstudent. "We had best try it outside." "Later' ordered Chuft-Gaptain. Again Slaverstudent dipped' into the cylindrical box. He removed small containers half filled with two kinds of small-arms projectiles; a colored cap which might easily have fitted a standard bowling ball; a transparent bulb of clear fluid; and a small metal widget that might have been anything. "I see no openings for bullets." "Nor do I. Flyer, take a sample of this meat and find out what it is made of. Do the same with this -- trophy, and this bulb. Telepath, are you awake?" "Chuft-Captain, I am." "When can you again read the -- " "Ohuft-Captain, please don't make me -- " "At ease. Telepath. Take time to recover. But I intend to keep the prisoners present while we investigate this find. They may notice some detail we miss. Eventually I will need you." "Yes, Ohuft-Captain." "Test that small implement for radio or hyperwave emissions. Do nothing else to it. It has the look of a subminiature communicator, but it might be anything, a camera, even an explosive." "Slaverstudent, you will come with me. We are going outside." I t took several minutes for the kzinti to get the prisoners into their suits, adjust their radios so that everybody could hear everybody else, and move them through the double-door airlock. To Jason the airlock was further proof that this was a warship. A IF pressure curtain was generally more convenient dian an airlock; but if power failed during a battle, all the air could leave the ship in one whoof . Warships carried double doors. Two stunners followed them up the sloping ice tunnel. Jason had thought there would be four. He'd need to fight only the boss kzin and one other. But both carried stunners and both seemed alert... He took too much time deciding. The boss made Nessus stand on a flexible wire grid, then did the same with Anne-Marie and Jason. The grid was a portable police web, and it was as inflexibly restraining as the built-in web in the ship. The kzinti returned down the sloping tunnel, leaving Jason, AnneMarie and Nessus to enjoy the view. It was a lonely view. The blue and yellow stars were rising, invisibly. They showed only as a brighter spot at one foot of the red-smoke arch of hydrogen. Stars showed space-jbright in curdled patterns across the sky; they all glowed red near the arch. The land was cold, rock-hard ice, rippling in long, low undulations that might have years ago, when the Lyrae twins were bigger and brighter. Black faceted rocks poked through some of the high spots. Several yards away was the Court Jester, A thick, round-edged, flatbottomed disk, she sat on the ice like a painted concrete building. Apparently she intended to stay. Jason stood at parade rest on the police web. Anne-Marie was six inches to his right, facing him. For ah of urge to touch her, she might have been miles away. Two days ago she had carefully painted her eyelids with semipermanent tattoo. They showed as two tiny black-and-white-checked racing victory flags, rippling when she blinked. Their gaiety mocked her drawn face. 'T wonder why we're still alive," she said. Nessus' accentless voice was tiny in the earphones. "The captain wants our opinion on the putative weapon. He will not ask for them, but will take them through the telepafh." "That doesn't apply to you, does it?" "No. No kzin would read my mind. Perhaps no kzin would kill me; my race holds strong policies on the safety of individual members. In any case we have some time." "Time for what?" "Anne-Marie, we must wait. If the artifact is a weapon we must recover it. If not, we must survive to warn your people that the kzinti are searching out Slaver stasis boxes. We must wait until we know which." "rzei what?" "We will find a way." "We," said Jason. "Yes. Our motives coincide here. I cannot explain why at this time." But why should a puppeteer risk his life, his life, for Earth? Jason wondered. T he boss kzin emerged from the airlock carrying the spherewith-a-handle. He stood before Jason and held it before his eyes. Examine this' he oommanded and turned it slowly and invitingly in his four-'fingered hands. There was the reflecting sphere, and there was the bronzy-metal gun handle with its deeply scored groove and its alien sculpturing. The groove had nine notched settings running from top to bottom, with a guide in the top notch. Squiggles which must have been tnuctip numbers corresponded to the notches. Jason prayed for the police web to fail. If he could snatch the artifact -- The Kzin moved away, walking uphill to a rise of icy ground. A second ikzin emerged from the pressure curtain carrying an unfamiliar gadget of kzinti make. The two ikzinti spat phrases at each other. Kzinti language always sounds like insults. Nessus spoke quietly. "The meat was protoplasmic, protein and highly poisonous. The small, complex tnuctip implement does operate in hyperspace, but uses no known method of communication. The fluid in the clear bulb is forty per cent hydrogen peroxide, sixty per cent hydrogen oxide, purpose unknown." "What's the Slaver expert carrying?" "That is an energy output sensor." The puppeteer seemed calm enough. Did he know of some way to interrupt a police web? Jason couldn't ask, not when the boss kzin could hear every word. But he had little h. A police web belonged to the same family as a pilot's craA field, triggered to enfold the pilot when signaled by excessive pressure on his crash webbing. A crash web was as deliberately foolproof as any last-ditch failsafe device. So was a police web. Probably the puppeteer was slipping back into the manic state and was now convinced that nothing in the universe could harm him. Somehow that made Jason's failure worse. "One thing you should know, Jason, is that my species judges me insane..." It was one of the first things the puppeteer had told him. Unable to trust his own judgment, Nessus had warned him by implication that he would have to trust Jason's. They'd both trusted him. 'T had to show you Beta Lyrae," he said tdtterly. "It was a nice idea, Jay, really it was." If he'd been free he'd have found a wall and tried to punch it down. IV C huft-Captain stood on a rise of permafrost and let his eyes scan the horizon. Those points of dark rock would make good targets. The weapon was uncomfortable in his hand, but he managed to get one finger on the presumed trigger button. He aimed at the horizon and fired. Nothing happened. He aimed at a closer point, first pressing and releasing the trigger button repeatedly, then holding it down. Still nothing. "Chuft-Captain, there is no energy release." "The power may be gone." IF 'uft-Captain, it may. But the notches in the handle may control intensity. The guide is now set on 'nil.' " Chuft-Captain moved the guide one notch down. A moment later he had to resist the panicky urge to throw the thing as far as possible. The mirror-faced sphere was twisting and turning like something alive, changing shape like a drug nightmare. It changed and flowed and became -- A long, slender cylinder with a red knob at the end and a toggle near the handle. The handle had not changed at all. "Chuft-Captain, there was an energy discharge. Eek! What happened?" "It turned into this. What do I do next?" Slaverstudent took the artifact and examined it. He would have liked to fire it himself, but that was the leader's privilege and right. And risk. He said, "Try the toggle." At a forward motion of the toggle the red knob lit up and leapt across the ice. Chuft-Captain wiggled the handle experimentally. The red knob, still receding, bobb and weaved in response to stay in the line with the cylindrical barrel. When the knob was a red point sixty yards distant, Chuft-Captain stopped it with the toggle. "Variable-sword," he muttered. He looked for a target. His eyes lit on a nearby tilted spire of dark rock or dirty ice. Chuft-Captain" gripped the artifact in both furry hands, like a big game fishing pole, and swung the red light behind the spire. The artifact fought his pressure, then gave way. The top half of the spire toppled, kicking up a spray of chipped ice. "A variable-sword," he repeated. "But not of Slaver design. Slaverstudent, have you ever heard of a weapon that changes shape?" "No, Chuft-Captain, neither of the past nor of the present." "Then we've found something new." "Yes!" The word was a snarl of satisfaction. "That tears it," said Anne-Marie. "It's a weapon." Jason tried to nod. The pKlice web held him fast. The other kzinti came outside and moved up the rise. Four kzinti stood spitting at each other, looking like four fat men, sounding like a catfight. Nessus said, "The first notch must have been neutral. They intend to find out what the other notches do." "It changes shape," said AnneMarie. "That's bad enough." "Quite right," said the puppeteer. "The artifact is now our prime target." Jason grinned suddenly. The puppeteer reminded him of a cartoon: Two bearded, dirty convicts, hanging three feet off the ground by iron chains. One convict saying, "Now, here's my plan..." First we wish away the police web. Then -- Again the kzin captain moved the guide. The gun reverted to sphereand-handle, then flowed into something hard to see at a distance. The toss ikzin must have realized it. He came down the hill, followed by Ihe others. One at a time the kzinti moved them to the top of the rise, so that they stood several yards behind the firing line, but stdl in the police web. The boss kzin resumed his firing stance. P osition number two was a parabolic mirror with a silvery knob at the center. It did nothing at all to the rock Chuft-Captain was using for a target, though Slaverstudent reported an energy discharge. ChuftCaptain considered, then turned the weapon on the puppeteer. The puppeteer spoke in the human tongue. "I can hear a faint highpitched whine." "Another control dial has formed," Slaverstudent pointed out. "Four settings." Chuft-Captain nodded and tried the second setting. It did not affect the puppeteer. Neither did the third and fourth. "Chuft-Captain, will you hold down the trigger?" Slaverstudent cautiously peeped over the lip of the parabolic mirror. "Urrrr. I was right. The knob is vibrating rapidly. Setting number two is a sonic projector -- and a powerful one, if the puppeteer can hear it through near-vacuum and the thickness of its suit." "But it didn't knock him out or anything." "Chuft-Captain, we must assume that it was designed to affect the Slaver nervous system." "Yes." Chuft-Captain moved the guide to setting number three. As the gun chiged and flowed, he said, "We have found nothing new. Sonics and variable-swords are common." "Mutable weapons are not." "Mutable weapons could not win a war, though they might help. Urrr. This seems to be a projectile weapon. Have you the small-arms projectiles from the stasis box?" "Chuft-Captain, I do." The magazine under the barrel swung out for loading. It took both kinds of projectiles. Chuft-Captain again sighted on the rock, using the newly formed telescopic sight. His first shot put a nick exactly here he aimed it. His second, with the second variety projectile, blew the rock to flying shards. Everybody ducked but Chuft-Captain. "Should I empty the magazine before moving the guide?" "Chuft-Captain, I do not think it matters. The bullets should certainly be removed, but the tnuctipun must have known that occasionally they would not be. Will you indulge my curiosity?" "Since your curiosity is a trained one, I will," Chuft-Captain moved the guide. The projectiles still in the gun popped out through the shifting surface. The artifact became a sphere-with-handle, and then... a sphere-withhandle. The new sphere was smaller than the neutral setting. It had a rosy hue and a smooth, oily texture unmarred by gunsights or secondary controls. The trigger button did nothing at all. IF "I tire rapidly of these duds." "Chuft-Captain, there is energy release." "Very well." Chuft-Captain fired at the puppeteer, using his marksman's instinct in the absence of a gunsight. The puppeteer showed no ill effects. Neither did the female human. In momentary irritation ChuftCaptain thought of firing the dud at Telepath, who was standing nearby looking harmless and useless. But nothing would happen; he would only upset the Telepath. He moved the guide to the fifth setting. T he artifact writhed, became a short cylinder with an aperture in the nose and two wide, flat, metallic projections at the sides. Chuft-Captain's lips drew back from neatly filed feline teeth. This looked promising. He drew aim on what was left of the target rock -- a dark blot on the ice. The gun slammed back against his hand. Chuft-Captain was whirled half around, trying to keep his feet and fighting the sudden pressure as a fireman fights a fire hose. Releasing the trigger didn't shut off the incandescent stream of plasma gas. Pressing the trigger again did. ChuftCaptain blinked his relief and looked around to assess damages. He saw a twisting trail of melted ice like the path of an earthworm screaming into his helmet mike. An ominously diminishing scream. The other kzinti were carrying him toward the airlock at a dead run. From the trail of thin, icy fog bis suit left on the air, the weapotfs firestream must have washed across his body, biuuing holes in nearly heatproof fabric. The human female was running toward her ship. A glance told him that the other prisoners were still in the police web. Telepath must have knocked the female spinning out of the force field while tiying to escape the firestream. She was plainly visible, running across flat ice. Chuft-Captain shot her with the stunner, then trudged away to pick her up. He had her back in the web when Flyer and Slaverstudent returned. Telepath will live, but in critical shape. They had dumped him in the freeze box for treatment on Kzin. As for Position Five on the tnuctip relic -- "It's a rocket motor," said Slaverstudent. "As a short range weapon it could be useful, but primarily it is a one-kzin reaction pistol. Onetnuctip, that is. I doubt if it would lift one of us against respectable gravity. The flat projections at the sides may be holds for feet. The tnuctipun were small." "Pity you didn't think of this earlier." "Chuft-Captain, I acknowledge my failure." Chuft-Captain dropped it. Privately he too acknowledged a failure: he had not considered the female dangerous. Humans were sentient, male and female both. He would not forget it again. Position Six was a laser. It too was more than a weapon. A telescopic sight ran along the e and there was a microphone gnd at the back. Focus it on the proper target, and you could talk voice-tovoice. "This will be useful," said Slaverstudent. "We can find the voice and hearing ranges for tnuctipun from diis microphone." Will that make it a better weapon?" 'uft-Captain, it will not." Then ke your passion for useless knowledge to yourself." ChuftCaptain moved the guide to the seventh setting. V it'pvarling?"L Anne-Marie didn't move. The police web held her in a slumped sitting position. Her chest rose and fell with shallow breathing. Her eyes were closed, her face relaxed. "Nice try," Jason told her. "She cannot hear you," said Nessus. "I know she can't hear me." "Then why -- ? Never mind. What did that rocket setting look like to you?" "A rocket." "Using what fuel source?" "Is it important?" 'Jason, I know nothing of warfare or of weapons, but my species has been making and using machines for some considerable time. Why did the projectile weapon not include its own projectiles? Why did it throw them away changed shape?" "Oh" Okay, it can't throw away its own mass." Jason thought about that. "You're rit. It can't be using its own fuel. Nessus, it's a jet. There was an intake somewhere that nobody noticed. Wait a minute. You couldn't use it in space." "One would affix a gas cartridge at the intake." "Oh. Right." "One could not be sure a given atmosphere would burn. How is the gas heated?" "A battery in the handle? No, it couldn't put out enough power, not without -- but there has to be one. Nessus? The kzinti could be listenmg. "I ihmc it does not matter. The kzinti Will know all about the weapon soon enough. Only the captain can profit from learning more before he turns the weapon over to his superiors." "Okay. The battery must use total conversion of matter." "Could you not build a fusion motor small enough to fit into the handle?" "You're the expert. Could you? Would it give enough power?" "I do not think so. The handle must contain a wide variety of mechanisms to control the changing of shapes." They watched the kzinti test out the laser form. "You could do it direct," said Jason. "Change some of the matter in the reaction gas to energy. It'd give you a terrifically hot exhaust. Nessus, is there any species IF in known space that has total conversion?" "None that I have heard of." "Did e tnuotipun?" "I would not know." "Things weren't bad enough. Can you see kzinti warships armed and powered with total conversion?" A gloomy silence followed. The kzinti were watching the weapon change shape. The boss kzin had not spoken; he may or may not have been listening to their discussions. A nne-Marie made small protesting sounds. She opened her eyes and tried to sit up. She swore feelingly when she found that the web was holding her in her cramped position. "Nice try," said Jason. "Thanks. What happened?" She answered herself, her voice brittle and bitter. "They shot me, of course. What have I missed?" '"The seventh setting was a blank, ' A flat-ended cylinder with a small wire grid near the back. No gunsight. It did nothing when ChuftOaptain clicked the trigger button; it did nothing when he held it down, and nothing when he clicked it repeatedly. It had no effect on the target rock, the puppeteer, the humans. Its only effect on Slaverstudent was to make him back warily away, saying, "Chuft-Captain, please, there is an energy discharge." "A singularly ineffective energy discharge. Take this, Slaverstudent. Make it work. I will wait." And wait he did, stretched comfortably on the permafrost, his suit holding the cold a safe tenth of an inch away. He watched Slaverstudent's nerves fray under the fixity of his stare. VV "Not much. We've decided the jet that knocked you down converts matter to energy." "Is that bad?" "Very." Jason didn't try to explain. "The sixth setting was a moreor less conventional message laser." "The seventh does not work," said Nessus. "This angers die captain. Jason, for the first time I regret never having studied weapons." "You're a puppeteer. Why should you..." Jason let the sentence trail off. There was a thought he wanted to trace down. About the weapon. Not any particular form, but all forms together. "No sentient mind should turn away from knowledge. Especially no puppeteer. We are not known for our refusal to look at unpleasant truths." Jason was silent. He was looking at an unpleasant truth. Nessus had said diat it didn't matter what the boss kzin overheard. He was wrong. This was a thing Jason dared not say aloud. Nessus said, "The Slaver expert wants to go inside with the weapon. He has permission. He is going." Anne-Marie said, "Why?" "There is a microphone grid on the seventh setting. Jason, could a soldier use a hand computer?" "He -- " wasnt a soldierilton clamped his teeth on the words. "Probably could," he said Presently the Slaver expert returned holding the tnuctipun weapon. To Jason the artifact had taken f on a final, fatal fascination. If he was right about its former owner, then he could stop worrying about its reaching the Patriarch of Kzin. All he had to do was keep his mouth shut. In minutes, he and Anne-Marie and Nessus and the four kzinti would be dead. S laverstudent said, "I was right. The artifact lanswered me in an unknown speech." "Then it is another -- " Signalling device, he had been about to say. But it would have been built to signal tnuctipun. And the tnuctipun had been extinct for ages... yet the thing had answered back... Chuft-Oaptain felt his back arch with the fighting reflex. There were ghost legends among the kzinti. "Ohuft-Captain, I believe it to be a computer. A hand computer could be very useful to a warrior. It could compute angles for him as he fired explosive projectiles." "Yes. Can we use it?" "Not unless we can teach it the Hero's Tongue. It may be too simple to learn." "Then we pass to setting number Eight." Chuft-Captain moved the guide down to the bottom setting. Again there was no gunsight. Most of the genuine weapons had had gunsights or telescopic sights. ChuftCaptain scowled, but raised the weapon and aimed once again at the distant, shattered rock. J ason cringed inside his imprisoned skin. Again the weapon was writhing, this time to the final setting. There were so many things he wanted to say. But he didn't dare. The boss kzin must not know what was about to happen. The gun had twisted itself into something very strange. "That looks familiar," said Nessus. "I have seen something like that, some time." "Then you're unique," said Anne Marie. "I remember. It was one of a series of diagrams on how to turn a sphere inside out in differential topology. Certainly there could be no connection..." The boss kzin assumed markBman stance. Jason braced for the end. What happened next was not at all what he expected. Unconsciously he'd been leaning on the police net's force field. Suddenly he was falling, overbalanced. He straightened, not quite sure what had happened. Then he got it. The police net was gone. He slapped Anne-Marie hard on the back, pointed at the Court Jester, saw her nod. Without waiting to see her start running, he turned and charged at the boss kzin. Something brushed by ium at high speed. Nessus. Not running away, but also charging into battle.  was right, thougjit Jason. Hes gone manic. VI huft-Oaptain pushed the trigger button. Nothing happened. It was really too much. He stood a moment, marshalling words for Slaverstudent. A brand new kind of weapon, and it wouldn't do anything! Half the settings were duds! He knew it as he turned: something was wrong. The danger instinct sang in his nerves. He got no other warning. He had not seen the ship lights go out. He heard no sign of pounding clawed feet. The sounds of breathing had become a trifle heavy... He started to turn, and something hit him in the side. It felt like an armored knight had run him through with a blunt lance. It hurt. Chuft-Captain lost all his aplomb and all his air, bent sideways as far as he could manage, and toppled. He saw the world turned sideways, glowing through a blue fog. He saw the human female struggling furtively in Slaverstudent s hands; he saw Flyer aiming a stunner across the ice. He saw two running figures, human and puppeteer, trying t reach the other ship. Flyer's stunner didn't seem to affect them. The human had the tnuctip artifact He could breath again, in sharp shallow gasps. That blow in the side must have broken ribs: it could hardly have failed to, since kzinti ribs run all the way down. That had felt like a puppeteer's kick! But that was ridiculous. Impossible. A puppeteer kick a kzm? The puppeteer reached the ship far in advance of the slower human. It paused a moment, then turned and ran on across the white undulating plain. The human also paused at the ship's entrance, then followed the puppeteer. Flyer was running after them. Behind Chuft-Captain the shiplights were dim, but brightening. Hadn't they been dark when he fell? And the stunners hadn't worked. And the police webs... So. The eighth setting was an energy absorber. Not a new thing, but much smaller than anything he'd heard of. But what had hit him? There was a hissing in his ears, a sound he hadn't noticed. Not breathing. Had somebody's suit been punctured? But nobody had been attacked. Except -- Chuft-Captain slapped a hand over his side. He yelled with the pain of motion, but kept his hand pressed tight while he reached for a meteor patch. He risked one look under his hand before applying the patch. There were four tiny holes in the fabric. They might easily have marked the claws of a puppeteer's space boot. T he boss kzin held his marksman's stance. Jason was moving toward him at a dead run. He bad to get the weapon before the kzinti realized what had happened. Nessus passed him like a live missile. The puppeteer reached the kzin, turned skidding on two front legs, and lashed out. Jason winced in U IF sympathy. That kick had been sineerel It would have tom a man in half, crushed his lungs and ribcage and spine and life. The mad puppeteer had barely paused. He ran straight toward the Court Jester, Jason scooped up the fallen weapon, skidded to a halt and turned. A kzin had Anne-Marie. Well see about that! His fingers moved to the weapon's adjustment guide. A second kzin held a stunner on him. The stunner would start working the moment the tnuctip weapon shifted shape. He'd lose everything. He could hear Anne-Marie swearing tearfully as she fought. Then her voice came loud and clear. "Run, damnit! Jay, run!" He could throw the weapon to Nessus, then charge to tdie rescue! They'd get him, but ... but the puppeteer was well out of range... and couldn't be trusted anyway. A puppeteer who kicked something that could kick back was beyond psychiatric help. Anne-Marie was still kicking and using her elbows. Her kzin captor didn't seem to notice. The boss kzin lay curled like a shrimp around the spot of agony in his side. But the third kzin held his pose, still bathing Jason in an imaginary stunner beam. Jason turned and ran. Ho saw Nessus leave the Jester's entrance and go on. He guessed what he would find, but he had to look. Sure enough, the door was soldered shut. A laser would have melted the steel solder away from the huUmetal door. But the third kzin was finally in motion, coming alter him, still trying to use the stunner. Jason ran on. The puppeteer was a diminiriiing point. Jason foOowtd that point, moving into a cold wie lit by a fiery arch with one brijht glare spot... "Flyer, return to the ship at once." "Chuft-Captain, he's around here somewhere. I can find him." "Or he could find you. Return to the ship. The rules of this game have changed." T he kzin was gone. Jason had stalked him for a dme, with his weapon set to the energy absorbing phase and mth his thumb on the guide. If he had seen the kzin, and if the kzin hadn't seen him... a variable-sword, a hair-thin wire sheathed in a stasis field, would have cut one enemy into two strangers. But it hadn't happened, and he wasn't about to follow the kzin back to home base. Now he lay huddled in the hole he'd dug with the rocket phase. "Jay!" It was Anne-Marie. "Have to talk quick, they're taking off my helmet. I'm not hurt, but I can't get away. The ship's taking off. Bury the weapon somewh -- " Her voice faded and was gone. The public band was silent. Nessus's voice broke that silence. "Jason. Turn to the private band." He had to guess which band Nessus meant. He was third time lucky. "Can you possibly hear me?" "Yah. Where are you?" "I do not know how to describe my position, Jason. I ran six or seven miles east" "Okay. Let's think of a way to find each other." "Why, Jason?" He was puzzled over that. "You think you're safer alone? I don't. How long will your suit keep you alive?" "Several standard years. But help will arrive before then." "What makes you think so?" "When the kzin pilot entered the pressure curtain, I was calling my people for help." "What? How?" "Despite recent changes in the fortunes of my people, that is still most secret." Telepathy? Something in his baggage, or surgically implanted under his skin? The puppeteers kept their secrets well. Nobody had ever found out how the puppeteers could commit painless suicide at will. And how Nessus had done it didn't matter. "Are they coming for you all the way from Andromeda?" "Hardly, Jason." "Go on." "I suppose I must. My people are still in this region of the galaxy, in the sixtylight-year volume you call known space. Their journey began only twelve years ago. You see, Jason, my people do not intend to return to this galaxy. Hence it does not matter how much objective time passes during their journey. They can reach Andromeda in a much shorter subjective dme using normal space drives. Our ships approach very close to lighitepe Further, they need brave only the dangers of normal space, which they can handle easily. Hyperspace is an unpredictable and imcomfortable thing, especially for those who would spend decades traveling in any case." "Nessus, your whole species is crazy. How did they keep a secret like that? Every one thirds they're halfway to Andromeda." "Naturally. Who would stumble across the fleet in interstellar space? Between systems every known species travels in hyperspace... except the Outsiders, with whom we have agreements. In any case, my people are within reach. A scout will arrive within sixty days. The scouts are fitted with hyperdrive." "Then you're safe if you stay hidden." Danin! thought Jason. He was all alone. It was a proud and lonely thing to be a costume hero. "Well, good luck Nessus. I've got to -- "Do not sign off. What is your plan?" "I don't have one. I've got to see the kzinti don't get this hack, but I've also got to get Anne-Marie away from them." "The weapon should come first." "My wife comes first. What's your stake in this, anyway?" "With the principles behind the tnuctip weapon the kzinti could command known space. My people will be in known space for another twenty-eight human years. Should the kzinti learn of our fleet, it would be an obvious target." IF "Oh." "We must help each other. How long can you live in your suit?" "Til I starve to death. #I have air and water indefinitely. Say thirty days, upper limit." "Your people should not cut costs on vital equipment, Jason. My people cannot arrive in time to save you." "If I gave you the weapon, could you stay hidden?" "Yes. If the ship came in sight I could shoot it down with the laser setting. I think I could. I could force myself... Jason, will the kzinti cl other ships?" "DamnI Of course they will. They'd find you easy. What'll we do?" "Can we force entrance to the Court JesterV "Yah, hut they took my keys. We couldn't use the drives or the radio or get into the lockers." "The laser would let us into the lockers." "Right." "Have you weapons aboard?" "No. Nothing." "Then die Court Jester would be no more than a place from which to surrender. I have no suggestions." iChuft-Captain, the eighth set ting must be the way the artifact is recharged. It does not itself seem to be a weapon." "It can be used as one. As we have seen. Don't bother me now, Slaverstudent." Chuft-Captain strove la ke his tone mild. He knew that his rage was the companion of his pain; Slaverstudent knew too. Neither had referred to the fact that Chuft-Captain now walked crouched to the side. Neither would. The kzin captain could not even bandage himself, though when daey reached space he could use the ship's medical equipment to set the bones. The worst damage had been done to Chuft-Captain's ego. Had the puppeteer known what he was doing? His small clawed foot had shattered more than a couple of ribs. One day Chuft-Captain might have been Chuft, the hero who found the weapon that beat the human empire to its belly. Now he would be -- Chuft, who was kicked by a puppeteer. "Chuft-Captain, here comes Flyer." "Good. Flyer! Get your tail in here and lift us fast." Flyer went past at a quick shuffling run. Slaverstudent shut Ihe airlock after him, helped Chuft-Captain strap down, tnd was strapping himself in when Flyer did his trick. The ip rose out of the ice, dripping opalescent chunks and shining bluewhite at the stern. O n the smoky arch of Beta Lyrae, the bright pmnt had readied the zenith. Behind their permanent veil the two stars had pulled opart in their orWts, so that the vague britness had shaded into an mage tinge on one side and a green on the other. "One thing we do have," said Jason, "and that's the weapon itself." "True. We have a laser, a flamctiipowing rocket and a shield against polke stunners. But not simultaneously." "I think we may have overlooked a setting." "Wishful thinking, Jason, is not a puppeteer trait." "Neither is knowledge of weapons. Nessus, what kind of weapon is this? lm talking about the whole bundle, not any single setting." "As you say, I am not an expert on warfare." "I don't think it's a soldier's weapon. I think it's for espionage." "Would that be different? I gather the question is important." Jason stopped to gather his tbouts. He held the gun cradled in his hands. It was still at the eighth setting, the peouhar, twisted shape that Nessus had compared to a diagram from differential topology. He held history in his hands, hisOnce upon a time a small, compactly built biped had aimed this weapon at beings with ball-shaped hea, big dngle eyes and massive Mickey Moose hands, great splayed feet and iidy armored skin and clusters of naked pink tendrils at the comers of wide mouths. What could he have been thinking the last time he stored away this weapon? Did he guess that fifteen milHon centuries later a mind would be trying to guess his nature from his abandoned possessions? "Nessus, would you say this gadget is more expensive to produce than eight gadgets for similar joibs?" "Assuredly, and more difficult But it would be easier to Cariy than eight discrete gadgets." "And easier to hide. Have you ever heard of Slaver records describing a shape-changing weapon?' "No. The tnuctipun would understandably have kept it a secret." "That's my point. How long could soldiers had models?" "Not long. The same objections hold for its use in espionage. Jason, what kind of espionage could a tnuctip do? Certainly it could not imitate a Slaver." "No, but it could 'hide out on a sparsely setded world, or it could pretend to be a tnuctip slave. It'd have to have some defense against the Slaver power." "The cap in the stasis box?" "Or something else, something it was wearing when the Slavers caught it" "These are unpleasant ideas. Jason, I have remembered something. The Outsiders found the stasis box in a cold, airless world with ancient pressurized buildings still standing. If a battle had been fout there, would the buildings have been standing?" "Slaver buildings?" "Yes." "They'd have been standing if the Slavers won. But th the Slavers would have captured at least one of the weapons." "Only if (there were many such weapons. I concede your poi The owner of the weapon was a lone spy." IP "Good. Nowrwere you so sure?" The average soUier would get stomped on while he was trying to decide which weapon to use. Then there's a sonic for taking live prisoners. Maybe other settings make them feel fear or pain. The rocket would be silly for a soldier; he'd get killed flying around a battlefield. But a spy could use it for the last stage of his landing." "All right. Why is it important?" "Because there ought to be a selfdestruct setting somewhere." "What did -- ? Ah. To keep the secret of the miitable weapon. But we have used all the settings." "I thought it would be number eight. It wasn't. That's why we're still alive. An espionage agent's selfdestruct button would be made to do as much damage as possible." Nessus gasped. Jason hardly noticed. "They've hidden it somehow," he said. T ie Traitor's Claw was big. She had to be. Redundantly, she carried both a gravity polarizer and a fusion reaction motor. Probably she could have caught anything in real space barring ships of her own class, many of which were serving as police and courier ships in kzinti space. Kzin records listed her as a stolen courier ship. She was a squat cone, designed as a compromise between landing ability and speed in an atmosphere. In contrast, the flat Court Jester had been designed for landing ability alone; she would not have tipped ovon a seventy degree There was more than speed te the TraJtofs Clowns two drives. Before it had ever seen a gravity polarizer, the human empire had taught tiie kzinti a lesson they would never forget. The more efficient a reaction drive, the more effective a weapon it makes. A gravity polarizer was not a reaction drive. Flyer used both drives at once. The ship went up fast. Six thousand miles up the Traitor's Claw went into orbit. "We can find the prisoners with infrared," said Chuft-Captain. "But it will do us little good if they shoot us down. Can the laser setting prevent us from going after them?" "We can call for more ships," Flyer suggested. "Surely the weapon is important enough." "It is. But we will not call." Flyer nodded submission. Knowing what Flyer knew, ChuftCaptain snarled inside himself with humiliation and the digging agony in his side. He had been kicked by a puppeteer in full view of two subordinates. Never again could he face a kzin of equal rank, never until he had killed the puppeteer with his own teeth and daws. Could that kick have been ooldbloodedly tactical? Chuft-Captain refused to believe it. But, intended or not, that kick had stymied QiuftCaptain. He could not call for reinforcements until the puppeteer was dead. He forced his mind back to the weapon. The only setting that could harm the kzind was the laser    unless the rosy siere unexpectedly began working. But diat was unlike!y. He asked, "Is there a completely safe way to capture them? If not --  "There is the drive, said Slaverstudent. "They have die laser, Fly reminded him. "A laser that size is subject to a certain amount of spreading. We should be safe two hundred miles up. Closer than that and a good marksman could bum through the hull. "Flyer, is two hundred miles too high?" Cbuft-Captaln, th are wearing heatproof suits, and we can hover only at one-seventh Kzin-gravity. Our flame would barely warm the ice. "But there is the gravity polarizer to push us down while the fusion flame pushes us up. The ship was designed for just that tactic. Now, the fugitives suits are heatproof but the ice is not. Suppose we hovered over them with a five Kzin-gravity flame... ' J ason held a fivoinch rosy sphere with a pist grip handle. "It has to be here somewhere, he said. 'Try doing things you ordinarily wouldn't. Moving the gauge while holding the trigger down. Moving the guide sideways. Twisting the sphere." Silence on the private circuit. Then, "No luck yet. "The fourth setting was the only one that showed no purpose at all. "Yah. What in -- " High overhead a star had come into being. It was blue-white, almost violet-white, and for Jason it stood precisely at the zenith. "The kzinti," said Nessus. "Do not shoot back. They must be out of range of your laser setting. You would only help them find you." "They've probably found me already, with infrared scopes. What the Finagle do they think they're doing?" The star remained steady. In its sudden light Jason went to work on the weapon. He ran quickly through the remaining settings, memorizing the forms that used the trigger as an on-off switch, probing and prodding almost at random, until he reached neutral and the relic was a silver sphere with a handle. The guide would not go sideways. It would not remain between any two of the notches. It would not twist... "Are you making progress?" "Nothing, damnit." "The destnict setting would not be too carefully hidden. If a weapon were captured an agent could always hope the Slavers would destroy it by accident." "Yah." Jason was tired of looking at the neutral setting. He changed to laser and fired up at the new star, using the telescopic sit. He expected and got no result, but he held his aim until distracted by a sudden change in pressure around his suit. He was up to his shoulders in water. IF In one surge he was out of his hole. But the land around him was gone. A few swells of wet ice rose glistening from a shallow sea that reached to all the horizon. The kzinti ship's downblast had melted everything for miles around. "Nessus, is there water around you?" "Only in solid form. From my viewpoint the kzinti ship is not overhead." They've got me. As soon as they turn off the drive I'll be frozen in my tracks." "I have been thinking. Do you need the destruct setting? Suppose you change the rocket setting, turn the weapon nose down and fire. The flame will remain on, and the weapon will eat its way through the ice." "Sure, if we could think of a way to keep it pointed down. Odds are it'd turn over in the first few feet. Then the kzinti find it with deepradar or seismics and dig it out." "True." The water was getting deeper. Jason thought about using the rocket to burn his way loose once the water froze about his ankles. It would be too hot. He would probably bum his feet off. But he might have to try it. The blue kzinti star hung bright and clear against the arch of dust and hydrogen. A bright pink glow showed the Lyrae stars forty-five degrees from sunset. "Jason. Why is there a neutral setting?" "Why not?" "It is not for collecting energy. The eighth setting does that nicely. It is not for doing nothing. The projectile setting does that, unless you put projectiles in it. Thus the neutral setting has no purpose. Perhaps it does something we do not know about." "I'll try it." The bright star above him winked out. CChuft-Captain, I cannot locate  the puppeteer." "Its pressure suit may be too efficient to lose heat. We will institute a search later. Inform me when the human stops moving." N essus's idea would be a good one, Jason thought, if only he could make it workable. Much better than the destmct setting. Because if the destruct setting existed, it would almost certainly kill him. Probably it would kill Nessus too. The destruct setting on an espionage agent's weapon would be made to do as much damage as possible. And there had been total conversion involved in the rocket setting. Total conversion would make quite a bomb, even if it only weighed four pounds, and the converted mass a The kzinti-produced swamp was congealing from the bottom up. His boots were getting heavy. Each had collected a growing mass of ice. He kept walking so that they wouldn't freeze to the bottom. He'd searched the neutral setting, handle and sphere, for hidden controls. Nothing showed: nothing obvious. He tried twisting various parts of Hhe handle. Nothing broke, was good, but nothing would twist either. Maybe something should break. Suppose he broke off the gauge? He wasn't strong enough. He tried twisting the ball itself. Nothing. He tried it again, holding the trigger down. The silvery sphere twisted one hundred and eighty degrees, then clicked. Jason released the trigger, and it started to change. "I've found it, Nessus, I've found something "A new setting? What does it look Mke?" Like a white flash, thought Jason, waiting for the single instant in which it would look like a white flash. It didn't come. The protean material solidified... "Like a cone with a rounded base, pointing away from the handle." 'Try it. And if you are successful, good-by, Jason. Knowing you was pleasant." "The blast could include you, too." "Is it thus you assuage my loss of you?" "You sure you don't have a sense of humor? Good-by, Nessus. Here goes." The cone did not explode. A time bomb? Jason was about to start looking for a chronometer on the thing when he noticed something that froze him instantly. A hazy blue line led away in the direction he happened to be pointing the cone. Led away and upward at forty degrees, wavering as tremor in his fingers waved the cone's vertex. Another weapon. He released the trigger. The line disappeared. The kzin ship wasn't in sight. Not that he would have used it as a target, not with Anne-Marie aboard. A hidden weapon. More powerful than the others? He had to find out. Like Chuft-Captain, he tried to assume a marksman's stance. His feet were frozen solidly into the ice. He'd been careless. He shrugged angrily, aimed the weapon a little above the horizon, and fired. A hazy blue line formed. He slowly lowered the vertex until the line touched the horizon. The light warned him. He threw himself flat on his back and waited for the blast. The light died almost instantly... and suddenly the shiny horizon-to-horizon ice rippled d shot from under him. It took his feet along. His body snapped like a whip, and then the ice tore away from his feet. He was on his face, with agony in his ankles. The backlash came. The ice jerked under him, harmlessly. "Jason, what happened? There was an explosion." "Hang... on." Jason rolled over and pulled his legs up to examine IF them. The pain was bad. His ankles didn't feel broken, but he certainly couldn't walk on them. The boots were covered with cracked wet ice. "Jason. Puppeteer. Can you hear me?" It was the slurred, blurry voice of the boss kzin. "Don't... say anything, Nessus. I'm going to answer him." Jason switched his transmitter to the common channel. "I'm here." "You have discovered a new setting to the weapon." "Have I?" "I do not intend to play pup games with you. As a fighter you are entitled to respect, which your herbivorous friend is not -- " "How are your ribs feeling?" "Do not speak of that again, please. We have something to trade, you and I. You have a unique weapon. I have a female human who may be your mate." "WeU put. So?" "Give us the weapon. Show us where to find the new setting. You and your mate may leave this world in your own ship, unrestricted." "Your name as your word?" No answer. CC'ou lying get of a -- " Jason I searched for the word. He cxuld say two words of kzinti; one meant hello, and one meant -- "Do not say it. Jason, the agreement stands, except that I will smash your hyperdrive. You must return to civilization through normal space. With that proviso, you may have my name as my word." "Nessus?" "The herbivore must protect itself." "Consider the alternative. Your mate is not entitled to the respect accorded a fighter. Kzinti are carnivorous, and we have been without fresh meat for some years." "Bluff me not. You'd lose your only hostage." "We'd lose one arm of her. Then another. Then a lower leg." Jason felt sick. They could do it. Painlessly, too, if they wished; and they probably would, to avoid losing Anne-Marie to shock. He gulped. "Is she all right now?" "Naturally." "Prove it." He was stalling. Nessus could hear everything; he might come up with something... and was ever there a fainter hope? "You may hear her," said the boss kzin. There were clunking sounds; they must be dropping her helmet over her head. Then AnneMarie's voice spoke swiftly and urgently. "Jay darling, listen. Use the seventh setting. The seventh. C you hear me?" "Anne, are you all right?" "I'm fine," she shouted. "Use the seventh -- " Her voice died abruptly. "Anne!" Nothing. There was fast, muffled kzinti speech in his earphones. Jason looked at the weapon a moment, then dropped the guide to setting number BevcQ. Maybe she had something. The cone writhed, became a mirrorsurfaced here... "Jason, you now know your mate is unharmed. We must ask for your decision immediately." He ignored the blurry voice, watched the weapon become a flatended cylinder with a grid near the handle. He'd seen the kzinti using that... "Oh," he said. It was the computer, of course. The tnuctip computer. He smiled, and it hurt inside 'him. His wife had given him the only help she had to give. She'd told him where to find the only tnuctpin expert in known space. The hell of it was, she was perfectly right. But the computer couldn't hear him, and he couldn't hear the computer, and they didn't speak a common language anyway. Wait a minute. This was setting number seven; but if you counted neutral as the first setting, then -- no. Setting six was only the laser. Finagle! The Belter oath fitted. Finagle's First Law was holding beautifully. His ankles stopped hurting. Decoyed! He twisted his head around to find his enemy. The bargain had been a decoy! Already his head buzzed with the stunner beam. He saw the kzin, hiding behind a half-mehed bulge of ice with only one eye and the stunner showing. He fi at once. The weapon was on computer setting. His hand went slack. #T do not understand why she X wanted him to use the seventh setting." "The computer, was it not?" "Chuft-Captain, it was." "He could not have used the computer." "No. Why did the prisoner -- " "She may have meant the sixth setting. The laser was the only weapon a human could have used against us." "Unr. Yes. She counted wrong, then." The shipto-suit circuit spoke. "Ohuft-Captain, I have him." "Flyer, well done. Bring him in." "Chuft-Oaptain, do we still need him?" The kzin was not in a mood to argue. "I hate to throw anything away. Bring him in." H is head floated, his body spun, his ankles hurt like fiuy. He shuddered and tried to open his eyes. The lids came up slowly, reluctantly. He was standing in a police web, slack neck muscles holding bis head upright in one-eighth gee. No wonder he hadn't known which way was up. Anne-Marie was twelve inches to his side. Her eyes held no hope, only exhaustion. "Damn," he said. One word to cover it all. The kzind yowrling had been so much a part of the background that he didn't notice it until it stopped. After a moment the boss kzin stepIF ped in front of him, moving slowly and carefully and coiled protectively around his left side. "You are awake." "Obviously." One massive four-dawed hand held the tnuotip weapon, still at the computer setting. The kzin held it up. "You found a new setting on this. Tell me how to reach it." "I can't," said Jason. "I found it by accident and lost it the same way." "That is a shame. Do you realize we have nothing to lose?" Jason studied the violet eyes, fruitlessly. "What do you mean?" "Either you will tell me of your own free will, or you can be persuaded to tell, or you cannot In any case, we have no reason not to remove your mate's arm." He turned and spoke in the kzinti tongue. The other aliens left the room. "We will be leaving this world in an hour." The boss kzin turned and settled his orange bulk carefully in a kzinti contour couch, grunting softly with the pain of movement. He meant it. His position was too simple for doubt The boss kzin had a tnuctip weapon to take back to Kzin, and he had two human captives. The humans were of no use to him. But he had great use for Jason's knowledge. Wlhat he offered was a simple trade: knowledge for the meat on their bones. "I can't talk," said Jason. "All right," Anne-Marie said dully. "I can't" The cone-form was too powerful. Its beam set up spontaneous mass conversion in anything it touched. And he couldn't explain. The boss kzin might hear him; and the kzinti didn't know just what they were after. "All right, you can't. We've had it. How did they get you?" "I got stupid. While the boss kzin was talking to me one of the others snuck up and used a sonic." "The seventh setting -- " "I didn't have time to figure anything out. There isn't enou air to carry soimd out there." "I didn't think of that. How's Nessus?" "Still free." The boss kzin broke in. "We wUl have it soon. The puppeteer has no place to hide and nothing iwtth which to fight. Do you expect It to rescue you?" Anhe-Marie smiled sourly. "Not really." T he other kzinti returned, carrying things. There were pieces of indecipherable kzinti equipment, and there was a medkit from the emergency 'doc in the Court Jester. They set it all down next to the police web and went to work. One piece of kzinti equipment was a small tank with a pump and a piece of soft plastic tubing attached. Jason watched them wrap the tubing three or four times around Anne-Marie's upper arm. They joined the other end to the pump and started it going. "It's cold," she said. "Freezing." "I can't stop them," said Jason. She shivered. "You're sure?" He gave up. He opened his mouth to shout out his surrender. The boss kzin raised his furry head questioningly -- and Jason's voice stopped in his throat. He'd used the hidden setting just once. For only an instant had the violet beam touched the horizon, but the explosion had damn near killed him. Obviously the hidden setting was not meant to be used on the surface of a planet. It could be used only from space. Was it meant to destroy whole worlds? But Anne-Marie hurt! She said, "All light, you're sure. Jay, dem't look like that. Jay? I can grow a new arm. Relax! Stop worrying about it!" The anguish in Jason's face was like nothing she'd ever seen. The burry voice said, "She will never reach an autodoc." "Shut upr Jason screamed. Soft kzinti noises tered the silence. One of the kzinti left: the pilot, the one with the white streak. The others talked. Ihey talked of cooking, kzinti sex, human sex, Beta Lyirae, how to hunt puppeteers, or him to turn a sre inside out without forming a cusp. Jason couldn't tell. They used no gestures. Anne-Marie said, "They could have planted a mike on us." "Yah." "So you can't tell me what you're hiding." "No. I wish I spoke Wunderlander." " don't speak Wunderlander. Dead language. Jay, I can't feel my arm any more. Ihere must be liquid nitrogen in this tube." "I'm sorry. I cant help,' #Tt is not working," said ChuftJL Captain. "It should work," said Slaverstudent. "We may not get results with the first limb. We probably will with the second. The second time, they will know that we mean what we threaten." He looked thoughtfully at the prisoners. "Also, I think we should eat our meals in here." "They know that limbs can be regrown." "Only by human-huilt machines. There are none here." "You have a point." "It will be good to taste fresh meat again." Flyer returned. "Oiuft-Captain, the kitchen is programmed." "Good." Chuft-Captain incautiously shifted his bulk, tensed all over at the pain. It would have been nice if he could have put pressure bandages around his ribs. The ribs had been set and joined wkh pins. But he could not use pressure bandages; they would remind his crew of what had happened. He would be shamed. Kicked by a puppeteer. "I have been thinking," he said. "Regardless of what the human tels us, we must take the tnuctip relic to Kzin as quickly as possible. IF There I will drop you, Slaverstudent, along with the weapon and the freeze box containing Telepath. Flyer, you and I will return here for the herbivore. He cannot be rescued in that time. He will be easy to find. A sight search will find him unless he digs a hole, in which case we may use seismographs." "He will have a month to anticipate." "Yes. He will." "Can you understand me?" Three pairs of kzinti eyes jerked around. The voice belonged to none of them. It sounded foreign, artificial. "Repeating. Can you understand me?" It was the gun speaking. The tnuctip weapon. IX CiTt's learned their language," X said Jason. And all the hope drained out of him. "It'll tell them where to find that setting you were trying to hide." "Yah." "Then tell me this. Jay." She was on the edge of hysteria. "What good will it do me to lose my arm?" Jason filled his lungs and shouted. "Hey!" Not one kzin moved. They hovered around the weapon, all talking at once. "Hey, Captain! What sthondat was your sister?" They all jerked around. He must have pronounced the word right. "You must not use that word again," said the boss kzin. "Get this thing off my wife's arm!" The boss kzin thought it over, spoke to the pilot. The pilot manipulated the poHce web to free AnneMarie's arm, used a cloth to protect his hand while he removed the cold, deadly tube. He turned off the pump, readjusted the police web and went back to the discussion. By then the discussion hiad become a dialogue; the boss kzin had shut the others up. "How's your arm?" "Feels dead. Maybe it is. What were we hiding. Jay?" He told her. "Ye gods. And now they've got it." "Could you use an anesthetic?" "It doesn't hurt yet." "Let me know. Thre all through torturing us. They may eat us, but it'll be all at once." T he computer was doing most of the talking. A kzin was holding up the tnuctip cap, the one they'd found in the stasis box. The computer spoke. He held up the small metal object that might have been a communicator. The computer spoke again. The boss kzin spoke. The computer spoke at length. The boss kzin picked up the weapon and did things to it. Jason couldn't see what The kzin was facing away from him. But the weapon writhed. Jason snarled in his throat. He commonly used curses for emphasis. He knew no words to cover this situation. The boss kzin spoke briefly and j left cradling the weapon. One of the others followed: the expert on Slavers. Jason caught one gjiimpse of the weapon as the boss kzin went through the door. The kzin with the white stripe, the pilot, remained. Jason felt himself starting to shake. The weapon, the soft, mutable weapon. When the boss kzin had left the room, he'd carried a gun handle attached to a double cone with rounded bases and points which barely touched. He didn't understand. Then his eyes, restlessly searching  the room as if for an answer, fell on the empty stasis box. There was a tnuctip cap, and a small metal object which registered in hyperspace, and a preserved Slaver 'hand... It began to make sense. Did the computer have eyesight? Obviously. The kzinti had been showing it objects from the stasis box. Take a computer smart enough to learn a language by hearing it spoken for an hour. Never mind its size; any sentient being will build a computer as small as possible, if only to reduce the time lag in thinking with impulses moving at lightspeed or less. Let the computer know only what its tnuctipun builders taut it, plus what it had seen and heard in this room. It had seen a tnuctipun survival kit. It had seen mSnbers of a species it did not recognize. The unfamiliar bedngs had asked questions which made it obvious that they knew little about tnuctipun, and that they could not ask questions of a inuctip. They didn't speak the tnuctipun language. They were desperately anxious for details about a tnuctpun top secret weapon. Obviously they were not allies of the tnuctipim. They must be enemies. In the Slaver War there had been, could be, no neutrals. He said, "Anne." "StiU here." "Don't ask questions, just follow orders. Our lives depend on it. See that kzin?" "Right. You sneak up on him from behind; and I'll hit him too." from behind. I'll hit him with my purse." "This is not funny. When I give the word, we're both going to spit at his ear." "You're right. That's not funny." "I'm in dead earnest. And don't forget to compensate for low gravity." . "How are you going to give the word with a mouthful of saliva?" "Just spit when I do. Okay?" Jason's shot brushed the kzin's furry scalp. Anne-Maiie's caught him square in the ear. The kzin came to his feet with a howl. Then, as both humans cleared their throats again, the kzin moved like Mghtning. The air stiffened suddenly about their heads. The kzin contemptuously returned to his crouch against a wall. It became very hard to breathe. Blinking was a slow, excruciating process. Talking was out of the question. Warm air, laden with CX)#, did not want to dissipate. It stayed before their faces, waiting to be inhaled again and again. The kzin watched them struggle. Jason forced his eyes closed. Blinking had become too painful. He tried to remember that he'd planned this; that it had worked perfectly. Their heads and bodies were now entirely enclosed by the police web. Now heres my plan, puppeteer ran east," said A Chuft-Captain. And he turned west. He didn't want to kill the puppeteer without knowing it. The weapon was hard and awkward in his hand. He was a little afraid of it, and a little ashamed of being afraid: a hangover from that awful moment when the weapon spoke. There were ghost legends among the kzinti. Some of the most fearsome spoke of captured weapons haunted by their dead owners. Nobles weren't supposed to be superstitious, not out loud. A computer that could learn new languages was logical. The only way to reach the setting for the matter conversion beam had been to ask the computer setting; and that was logical too. A matter conversion beam was a dangerous secret. Briefly, Qmft-Captain wondered about that. It seemed that for an honoraMe kzin every recent change was a change for the worse. The conquest of ipm biul ended when kzinti met honian. Then had come the puppeteers with their trade outposts; any kzin who attacked a puppeteer invariably found himself, not harmed physically, but mined financially. No kzin could fight power like that. Would the tnuctip weapon reverse these changes? There had been a time, between the discoveries of atomic power and the gravity polarizer, when it seemed the kzinti species would destroy itself in wars. Now the kzinti held many worlds, and the danger was past. But was it? A matter conversion beam... There is no turning away from knowledge. Haunted weapons... He stopped on a rise of permafrost some distance from the ship. By now half the sky was blood red. An arm of the hydrogen spiral was sweeping across the world, preparing to engulf it. Hours or days from now the arm would pass, moving outward on the wings of photon pressure, leaving the world with a faintly thicker atmosphere. But we'll be long gone by then, Chuft-Captain thought. Already ho was looking ahead to the problem of reaching Kzin. If human ships caught the Traitor's Claw entering Kzin's atmosphere, the kzinti would clearly be violating treaty mles. But they weren't likely to be caught, not if Flyer did everything right... "Chuft-Oaptain, this setting has no gunsight." IF "No? You're right, it doesn't." He considered. "Perhaps it was meant only for large targets. A world seen from close up. The explosion was fierce." "Or its accuracy may be low. Or its range. I wonder. Logically the tnuctpun should have included at least a pair of notches for sighting." Something's wrong. The danger instinct whispered in his ear. Superstition, he snarled, and he raised the weapon stiffly, aiming well above the horizon. "Let us find the answer," he said. I n this area of Cue Ball the ice had melted and refrozen. It was as flat as a calm lake. Nessus had stopped at the edge. He'd faced around, stopped again, held the pose for several minutes, then faced back and started across the flat, redinged ice. Muscles rippled beneath his pressure suit It wasn't as if he exped to help his human employees. They had gotten themselves into this. And be had neither weapons nor allies nor even stealth to aid him. A human infantryman could have crawled on his belly, but Nessus' legs weren't built that way. On a white plain with no cover he had to trot upright, bouncing gaily in the low gravity. His only weapon was his hind leg. Thinking that, he remembered the jarring impact as he planted his foot in the kzin's side. Two hundred and forty pounds of charging puppeteer applied over five square inches of clawed ace boot. The shock wave had jarred up threiigh thigh and hip and qnne, jerked at his skull and continued ong the necks to snap his teeth dxut with a sharp double Click. Like kiddng a mountain, a soft but solid moualain. The next instant he was ruiUMiig, really terrified for the first itime in his life. But behind him he kzin had vented a long whistling scream and folded tightly around hims... Nessus went on. He'd trelted across the frozen lake without seeing kzinti or kzinti ship. Now the ice was beginning to swell and dtp. He'd reached the periphery of the blast area. Now there was a touch of yellow light ahead. Small and faint, but unmistakably yeBow against the pink ice. Ship lights. He went on. He'd never know why. He'd never admit it to himself. Thock! Hind boot slamming solidly into hard meat. Whistling shriek of agony between sharp-filed carnivore teeth. He wanted to do it again. Nessus had the blood lust. He went up a rise, moving slowly, though his feet wanted to dance. He was weaponless, but his suit was a kind of defense. No projectile short of a fast meteorite could harm him. Like silicone plastic, the pressure suit was soft and malleable under gentle pressures -- such as walking -- but it instantly became rigid all over when something struck it. He topped the rise. T ihe ship lights might have come from the Court Jester, They didn't. Nessus saw the airlock opening, and he charged down the slope so the next rise hid him from view. The kzinti ship was down. Tliey must have landed with the gravity polarizer; otherwise he would have seen them. If they had then captured Jason on foot, he might still be dHve. He might not. The same went for Anne-Marie. Now what? The kzinti ship was beyond this next rise of ice. At least one kzin was outside. Were they looking for him? No, they'd hardly expect him here! He had reached the trough between the two swells. They were long and shallow and smooth, like waves near an ocean shoreline. The top of the swell behind Nessus suddenly sparkled with harsh bluewhite sunlight Nessus knew just what to do, and he did it instantly. No point in covering his cranial bulge with his necks; he'd only get his larynxes crushed. Ihe padding would protect his brain, or it wouldn't. He folded his legs under him and tucked his heads tight between his forelegs. He didn't have to think about it. The puppeteer's explosion reflex was no less a reflex for being learned in childhood. He saw the light; he curled into a ball, and the ground swell came. It batted him like a beach bs. His rigid, form-fitting shell retained his shape. It could not prevent the ground swell from slamming him away, nor his brain from jarring under its thick skull and its extra padding. X H e woke on his back with his legs in the air. There was a tingly ache along his right side and on the right sides of his necks and legs. Half his body surface would be one bruise tomorrow. The ground still heaved; he must have been unconscious for only a moment. He clambered shakily to his feet. The claws were an enormous help on the ice. He shook himself once, then started up the rise. Suddenly and silently the kzinti ship topped the rise. A quarter of a mile down the swell it slid gracefully into space in a spray of ice. It was rotating on its axis, and Nessus could see that one side was red hot. It skimmed through the nearvacuum above the trough, seeming to drift rather than fall. It hit solidly on the shallow far rise and plowed to a stop. Still upright. Steam began to surround it as it sank into melting ice. Nessus approached without fear. Surely any kzin inside was dead, and any human too. But could he get in? The outer airlock door was missing, ripped from its hinges. The inner door must have been bent, for it leaked a thin fog from the edges. Nessus pushed the Cycle button and waited. The door didn't move. IF Nessus cast an eye aroand the airlock. There mast be teUites to sense whether the ooiter door was closed and whether there was pressure in the lock. There was one, a sensitized surface in the maimed outer doorway. Nessus pushed it down with his mouth. Air sprayed into the enclosure, turned to fog and blew away. Nessus' other head was casting about for a pressure sensor. He found it next to the air outlet. He swung alongside it and leaned against it so that his suit trapped the air. He leaned into the pressure. The inner door swung open. Nessus fought to maintain his position against the roaring wind. When the door was fully open he dodged inside. The door slanuned just behind him. Now. What had happened here? The kzinti lifesystem was a howling hurricane of air replacing what he'd let out. Nessus poked into the kitchen, the control section and two privacy booths without seeing anything. He moved down the hall and looked into what he remembered would be the interrogation room. Perhaps here... He' froze. Anne-Marie and Jason were in the police web. Obviously; because both were standing and both were unconscious. They appeared undamaged. But the kzini Nessus felt the world swim. His heads felt lighter than air. He'd been through a lot... He turned his eyes away. It occurred to him that the humans must be unconscious from the lack of oxygen. The police web must surround them completely, even to their heads. Otherwise the shock would have tom their heads off. Nessus forced himself to imove to the police web. He kept his eyes resolutely away from the kzm. Their were the controls, as that the power switch? He tried it The humans drifted gracefully to the floor. Done. And Nessus found his eyes creeping back to the kzin. He couldn't look away. The carnivore had struck like a wet snowball thrown with awful force. He was a foot up the wall, and he was all spread out on a border of splashed circulatory fluid, and he stuck... Nessus fainted. He woke up, still standing because of the normal kne of his relaxed muscles, to find AnneMarie shaking him gently and trying to talk to him. #T'm worried about him," said X Anne-Marie. Jason turned away from the Jester's control panel. "He can get treatment on Jinx. There are puppeteers in Sirius Mater." "That's still a week away. Isn't there anything we can do for him? He spends all his time in his rem. It must be awful to be manicdepressive." She was rubbing the stump where the emergency doc had amputated her arm -- a gesture Jason hated. It roused guilt feelings. But she'd get a new arm on Jinx. "I hate to teU you," he said, "but Nessus isn't in a depressive stage. He stays in his room because he's avcMding us." "Us?" "Yah. I think so." "But Jay! Vsr "Don't take it personal, Anne. We're a symbol." He lowered his head to formulate words. "Look at it this way. You remember when Nessus kicked the kzin?" "Sure. It was beautiful." "And you probably know he was nerving himself to fire oh the kzinti ship if I gave him the tnuctipun weapKn. Finally, you know that he came voluntarily to the kzinti ship. I think he was going to fight them if he got the chance. He knew they'd captured me, and he knew they had the weapon. He was ready to fight." "Good for him. But Jay -- " "Damnit, honey, it wasrCt good for him. For him, it was purest evil. Cowardice is moral for puppeteers. He was violating everything he'd ever learned!" "You mean he's ashamed of himself?" "That's part of it. But there's more. It was the way we acted when we wce up. "You remember how it was? Nessus was standing and looking at what was left of the kzin pilot You had to shake him a few times before he noticed. Then what did he find out? I, Jason Papandreou, who had been his friend, had planned the whole thing. I had known that the boss kzin and the Slaver expert were walking to their deaths, because the computer form of the weapon had given them the selfdestruct setting and told them it was the matter conversion beam. I knew that, ;and I let them walk out and blow themselves to smithereens. I tricked the pilot into putting our heads in the police web, but I left him outside to die. And I was proud of it! And you were proud of me! "Now do you get it?" "No. And I'm still proud of you." "Nessus isn't. Nessus knows that we, whom he probably thought of as funny-looking puppeteers -- you may remember we were thinking of him as almost human -- he knows we committed a horrible crime. Worse, it was a crime he was thinking of committing himself. So he's transferred his shame to us. He's ashamed of us, and he doesn't want to see us." "How far to Jinx?" "A week." "No way to hurry? "I never heard of one."      IF IF  Short SUry Landing on the strange planet, they prayed at once to their gods. But to what gods did the natives pray? G regory Shawn strained his neck upward at the two glaring apricots that were the suns of V-Planet#. The sands beneath him had warmed his legs until they glistened with streams of sweat, and the weak wind only managed to pack more hot air up under his heavy robe. Pulling at the cloth lying against his chest, he let a trickle of air pass between Ids skin and the robe. Further arm movement was impossible, as the other colonists pressed in tightly against him, forming an oval of sun-and-sand roughened flesh in the middle of the gorge. His wife moved at his side, but remained silent. From where he stood he could see only a small curve of the starship's port side. Like the ragged boulders and cliffs, the starship hull wavered liquidly in the heat. Soon even the people beside him began to waver, but the illusion passed when the group began to sing: for the pain of our new world. For tho pain of our new skies. For the evil which from our Day Over and around vs lies, Meah-Trin, to Thee we raise This our hymn of painful days. In the terror of each hour. Of the day and of the night. Reck and swamp, and free and flower. Suns and moons and stars of fright, Meah-Trin, to Thee we pray: Save vs from these painful days The path back to die tents was sand, then rock and sand, then rock, then rock and clay, as the tents and pungent swamp barbed with thin cattails came into sight. His wife clendhed a fold of his robe in her hand, and they cleared the final grade before the colony tents. The rocky hills behind the tents were smeared with the orange-red of iron deposits; the swamp water reflected the saffron sky; the ground was a dusty yellow-orange. The only cool colors dotting his vision were the triangular darknesses of the tent entrances. Gregory led his wife to the second line of tents, entered his own tent, and seated himself before a rough rock slab. Shuffling through the black script which covered a dozen neat opaque gray cellophane sheets, he found the unused sheets and began writing with a small pen: "Dear Meah-Trin, Beloved TwinGods-as-One, Gods of the Earth, of Man's New Worlds, of the Uncharted Universe: Today -- one week after the Day of Our Arrival -- we sang the new hymn as we stood on the sands of the Gorge of Our Arrival. It is not a thankful hymn. There is little to be thankful for in our colony on this rock-andswamp planet of sister suns. "Until today we could not sing the new hymn. No one would sing it, because Jonathan would not sing it. Jonathan would not sing it, because his wife, ebony-haired Ruthana, would not sing it. Ruthana said diat since yellow-skinned Darby changed the old hymn to the new three days ago, the new hymn was a distortion of the traditional hymn we brought with us, and should not be sung. "But two nights ago a heavyscaled leech from the swamp cattails crawled into Jonathan's tent and ate into Ruthana's throat and crawled into her belly. Jonathan day, so everyone sang the hymn today. "Our hearts ache because we think and dream ominous visions of our children and our children's children having to grow to adulthood in a world of constant pain. We cannot understand You in this new world of pain, and we search for Your guiding hand in aid." T he iron tinge of the rocks was pale now in the moonlight, and invisible in places under the inky shadows cast by crags and crevasses. The darkness of the cave opemng would normally have been appealing, but tonight hunger and fatigue added to apprehension made the animal reluctant to enter his lair. Four familiar pairs of eyes moved, glinted, and moved again inside the cave. The animal's hooves clacked and echoed, as it pawed hesitatingly on the rock before the cave. With head upturned toward the star-spangled tar of the night sky and monkeyish forehead shining under the moon's light, the animal snapped its needlepoint teeth in a shrill chatter and gestured with humanoid hands at the night: "O Gods of Stink-water and hardIF ground and dark and light -- I thank you for my world of warmmate and small-young. But please make the world better by making meat easier to find. We all have trouble finding meat. I have split a hoof on the high-rocks looking for the small-furry-meat that is sometimes there, but there is none there. My mate and I have three smallyoung, and she will be angry with me for not bringing her four weights of meat. O Gods, oiu: young will think of you thankfully if they have enough meat for their bellies. They, too, dll have mates and young soon, and their small-young will think of you thankfully if you make meat more plentiful. If you make stink-water come closer to our home-cave maybe meat will come with it. We would all be thankful. 'T have only four legs and two arms to search and find meat with, and they are tired arms and legs." Meah-Trin, Gods of AH: JL We lift our voices in song twice a week now. It is good to join in prayer and hymns, but it is difficult each time to witness another of us missing or pained by the new world. "Darkbearded SaHamiah was missing at the last hymnal meeting. His wife, golden-haired Lena, tells us that five days ago he was searching for wood to burn and he fell on a rock near the swamp and cut and broke a lower bone of his right leg. She says that yesterday she cleaned his leg, which was running with pus, and that in the pus were maggots. She says that last nigjht a finger-sized maggot crawled from the wound in Sallamiah's leg, and soft pieces of bone ran out with the purulence. She says that SaHamiah passed away in the night, and a hundred maggots crawled on his chest when she went to weep on him. "Pale Robert and curlynhaLr Cynthia passed away two weeks ago. Their faces were bloated, but there were no maggots. Four others with whom I was not weH acquainted were missing from the hymnal meeting last week. Two were given fiery funerals because of the maggots in their bodies. "Four days ago slant-eyed Daniel struck his head on a wood piling sunk for the swamp pier, and his skull went soft in three days, and the top of his mouth sagged in and choked him. His wife passed away from the maggots two weeks ago. "At the last hymnal meeting longhaired Peter was in great pain. His right cheek was peeling from the bone in hard pieces, like sun-baked mud. A week ago Peter volunteered to eat some of the food-stuffs of the swamp. He offered a small green fruit to Elizabeth and me, but we refrained from tasting it. I am thankful that we did, since the swamp plant might be the cause of Peter's disease or poisoning. The corn, potatoes and beans we brought with us grow well enough in the ground of the new planet, and they suffice as our diet. "We stiH must pray for understanding of Your ways in this new world of pain. There ore new and different pains each day for each f us    pain in not understanding You. # ( Gods of the stink-water and iV hard-ground and dark and light and meat -- My tired legs thank you, my mate thanks you, and our small-young thank you because you have made meat easier to find, even without moving the stink-water closer to our home-cave. You have given us a new kind of meat we have never seen before, which stays near the stinkwater and lives in small and weak home-caves out in the suns, and which has only two legs so that it cannot escape when I want to catch it and take it to my warm-mate and small-young. My four legs are thankful, even though the new meat is almost two great for them to lift. Even the small female of the new meat is almost one weight herself." #Toar Meah-Trin, Gods of AU: U Very few of us wish to lift our voices in the old thankful hymns we brought with us, so Darby changed four more of the old hymns to new hymns. But Darby, too, was missing at the last hymnal meeting. "Pepper-haired Samson, Darby's son, could not bury Darby because his bones and flesh were on orangish mud. We had to hum his body in his tent. Samson went to live with slender Patricia, whose husband did not return from the swamp five days ago. "Although Samson and Patricia have not wed, it was decided that there was mb sin in their living under the same tent, (because they know Your Rules Vitae and are good people. "Long-boned Thomas will he the one who will change more hymns for us in these times of pain. His wife, red-haired Barbara, passed away at the talons of the Devil last night. Her thigh was found near their tent. Thomas could find no other remains of her body, except for her life-blood spread out in the tent and among the rocks. "I spoke to Thomas last night, and he blasphemed, and I was ashamed in his presence. Although he can find no imderstanding of Your ways, he will be the one who vill change more hymns fbr us, since he knows well the words of our hearts and can put them to the old music. "Dear Meah-Trin, I'm afraid for Elizabeth, my wife. I have not been hint in this new world except through the pains and injuries of my friends. Four of them have been so pained by this new world that they blaspheme in front of us all. I will never blaspheme against you, even if Elizabeth is hurt, hut I'm afraid that my mind and heart would not be e same after it -- because, though I have the power to witness the sorrows of others, I might not have the power to bear my sorrow's at Elizabeth's pain. "I cannot -- we all cannot -- find understanding of Your ways." # Gods of the stink-water and hard-ground and moons and suns -- we are thankful for the meat IF you have sent us, but my arm aches where the two-legged meat attacked me. I can not bring meat to my mate and small-young if I do not have my arms to carry the meat with." # #Tear Meah-Trin, Gods of All:L Tonight must be our Night of judgment, we fear. Seven more of us have passed away the last few days. Three tents bum, and maggots and muddy flesh and leeches burn in them. "Azure-eyed Sophia lost her hand to the talons of the Devil early tonight. The Devil was occupying a form as dark as Hell. Its shape was that of a dog -- four legs and a torso -- and that of an ape -- stomadi, chest, arms and head. It was shorter in stature than a man, but probably of the same weit; its skin shovm in the moonlight like a moist bat-skin, and its arms and legs were thin and sinewy, and its feet sounded as it esca as if they were hooved. "The Devil came to Sophia in her tent, while her husband, bushyhaired Edward, was speaking with me about a fence to be buik around the tent. The Devil grabbed her arm, and she cried out for You to save her, and Edward and I ran to her. Edward fell upon the Devil and was taken by the long fingers of the Devil, and his head was twisted and blood ran from his mouth and his eyes were taken from his head 'by the Devil's talons. The Devil took Sophia's hand from her arm and held it in his mouth and carried the body of Edward away. I damned the Devil back to Hell and sent it away with a blow from a shovel on its left arm, but it did not free Edward from its grasp. The Devil's life-blood ran greasy as it returned to its kingdom. "We cannot imderstand how we have sinned so greatly that the Devil may visit us unrestrained by Your hands. Though the human imperfections in us fight patience, we still try to remain patient and pray for understanding." C#jear Meah-Trin, Gods of All: U We were a hundred when we descended from the skies into the Gorge of Our Arrival, and now we are fifty imder the damned moons of the new world's night. "It was not the Devil that took Thomas' wife and visited Sophia and took her husband, but rather it was only one of many of the Devil's helpers. Five of us saw demons of the same centaurean form last night, in different places, at different times. Perhaps there are a hundred of these helpers around, day and night. "Dear Meah-Trin, I am very afraid for Elizabeth. "Today stocky Morgan cried out in blasphemy that we were blind, that we were counseled by the Devil when we decided to leave Earth and come to this hell of sister sims. Morgan screamed that there are no Gods here. Then he began to weep, and all of us believed that You had spoken to him and 'that he was repenting with sacred tears for his blasphemy. But dien in the evening Morgan went to the swamp mud ami laugtied in madjiess and sank himself into the dairkness. "I pray that You forgive us our sins, of which we are so ignorant, and that You enlighten us as to our sins so that we ocnight know them and understand this new world is one of pain and punishment to us." # # ear Meah-Trin, Gods of All: Scar-faced Bamal told me today that small flames are bom from the ground near the tents. He said that many times he has watched a small crevasse in the ground and seen a fire bom in it. Stvrp-minded James thinks that it might be natural gas igniting upon striking the air, but most of us must believe that it is die Devil's doing. Swamp wood was used to build a fence around the tents, but still the Devil's demons have taken nine more of us; and the tents smeU of rotting blood, and small rodents chew and suck the drying blood at night if it is not buried under a layer of dirt. "We wait and pray for Your word, but many of our minds are imprisoned by the pains of our bodies and hearts and are moulded into confusion by the pains of this new world." # Gods of the moons and suns and stinkater and hardground and dark and light -- the new meat brings happiness to our stomachs, but I am fed with fear for my waim-mate and small-young. I can smell the fresh blood of one of us -- a young buck -- near the living grounds of the new meat. O Gods, I cannot understand this new meat, and I have begun fearing." #T Meah-Trin: A Devil's JL helper was killed today near the fence by four of the remaining thirty of us. I was one of the many who cut at it a hundred times with hatred in my heart, and who threw its greasy life-blood onto the rocks, and who took its bat-skin and tied it to a pole. We repented for our pagan feelings and actions later, but we have begun to sin in innumerable ways without repentence, for our minds are tortured and raw, and blind to the words we once knew from You. "There has not been a meeting in two weeks. There are only four of us who still live with our respive husbands and wives. I will attempt the organizaitioii of a hymnal meeting so that we may lift our voices to You. But long-boned Thomas sleeps in a tent with two women now, and does not come out except to blaspheme against You and to hei gather the crops of vegetables we now depend on. "We pray for some word from You, but many of us fear that there was some truth in stocky Morgan's words." # Gods of the dark and light and meat -- I cannot be thankful today. My warm-mate and small-young were attacked and killed in our home-cave by the new meat you sent. O Gods, I will find another mate and young, but these were my first. I do not feel like IF eating any more of the new meat yon sent. I do not understand why you send us meat that attacks us. "I saw the new meat running among our home-caves and saw them kill four bucks. I will find a new mate, and we will come to be happy in time, hut I do not understand you, O Gods." tt'rxear Meah-Trin: I have re-L framed from praying to You for three weeks, because one of the Devil's helpers carried Elizabeth away and left only her foot with three toes remaining. I loved Elizabeth, but the grief has been lessened by time so that I am now able to pray to You again. I am now living in a tent with azure-eyed Sophia, whose hand is healing fairly well. I feel that perhaps understanding of You in this new world will come to all of us soon. "We moved our camp to a place where only a few fires can continue to singe our legs and tents. Sharpminded James discovered a herb that can be ground up and spinkled on us and in the tents to keep the maggots and leeches away. The Devil's helpers have not returned, because twelve men of our colony took shovels and torches and found the demons in their lairs among the rocks and killed them and brought back the skins of forty-eight of them. There were three different colors of skins, seeming to be according to the demons' ages. I have a medium-sized bluish skin hanging over the entrance to our tent. "I believe that understanding of You will come soon, because new things are taking place in us these days. Long-boned Thomas came from his tent of three women and told us of the things he had learned from You in his dreams. He took a torch from the fire that is born from the ground and burnt his hand before our eyes, and his women kissed his hand, and Thomas cried out that it was wonderful to feel the fire and to know that he lived in the new world. One of his women took the stinging cattails that grow in the swamp and whipped her face with them, and then she cried out to You that it was good to feel the sting ahd to know that she had to face to feel and eyes to see the new world." # # ear Meah-Trin: Tall, long-L boned Thomas talked to all of us today about the New Rules Vitae You gave him while he was sleeping. He cried out to us that You have bidden us Feel Fire, Feel Sting, Feel Blood, Feel Cold, and the all important rule. Feel AM the Pain of the New World, because this new world You have given us is a world of pain. "Thomas was glorious today. He no longer sorrows for Barbara. "Many of us did not believe in the New Rules Vitae when they first heard them. So Thomas brought forth his four women, and one was without clothing, and all of us were ashamed. Thomas made her lie down on a bed of stinging cattails, and she cried out and tears ran from her eyes. She cried out how wonderful her pain was, and that You were speaking to her with wonderful words as she felt the pain, and that all of us would hear and know You once again if we obeyed the New Rules of the New World. 'Today long-boned leader Thomas and three other men took a small live Devil's helper -- the first one we have seen since we placed the skins on poles like flags -- and tied its jaw shut and dulled its talons wi stone, and took Belinda, wife of demon-killer Jason, and tied the beast to her side. The demon drew blood with its hooves, and e cried out thanksgiving to You. The demon nuzzled its jaws into her ribs with hellish ferocity, tugging at its bonds and desiring to taste her lifeblood, and to condemn her soul to Hell. Because of the muzzle, Belinda's life-blood was not blackened in the greaseit of the demon's belly, and her spirit was cleansed and the Devil's wish was thwarted. "Azure-yed, soft-voiced Sophia wants to hear and know You, as all of # do now, and she eame to me this morning to say that we should soon be wed in the New World, under the New Rules Vitae. So we will be wed tomoirow at the hymnal meeting. 'Tomorrow, when Thomas marries us with the stinging cattails and heated demon's bone and maggots, we will all sing the New Hynm of Thomas the Prophet: Gods of All, fo Thee we raise Our voice in love of painful days. "Tomorrow will be a glorious meeting, because five of us will take the last steps toward becoming One with You. As You instructed Thomas to have us do, we have gathered thick swamp wood beams to form crosses and have made nails from the metal of our shovels. "Tomorrow in the sun, high above the ground, we will Feel Pain. We have no fear diat the others will let us die, for they know that our children have yet to be bom and nurtured by this New World of Pain. After all, we came to this world in the beginning for the sake of our children. They will grow to know You and to love this Nw r I Don't miss the new Worlds of Tomorrow! I February issue of Worlds of Tomorrow on sale now! IF Earth's gallant diplomats were all up in the air -- and only Retief could bring them down! A s Second Secretary of Embassy Jame Retief stepped from die lighter which had delivered the Terran Mission to the close-cropped turquoise sward of the planet Zoon, a rabbit-sized creature upholstered in deep blue-violet angora bounded into view from behind an upthrust slab of scarlet granite. It sat on its oddly-arranged haunches a few yards from the newcomers, twitching an assortment of members as though testing the air for a clue to their cnigin. First Secretary Magnan's arrow face registered apprehension as a second furry animal, this one a yard-wide sphere of indigo fuzz, came hopping around the prow of the vessel. "Do you suppose they bite?" "They're obviously grass-eaters," Colonel Smartfinger, the military attache, stated firmly. "Probably naake most affectionate pets. Here, ah, kitty, kitty." He snapped his fmgers and whistled. More bunnies appeared. "Ah -- Colonel." The agricultural attache touched bis sleeve. "If I'm not mistaken, those are immature specimens of the planet's dominant life form!" ii'n'h?" Oldtrick pricked up his ears. "These animals? Impossible!" "They look just like the highresolution photos the Sneak-andpeek teams took. My, aren't there a lot of them!" "Well, possibly this is a sort of playground for them. Cute little fellows." Oldtrick paused to kick one which had opened surprising jaws for a nip at his ankle. "That's the worst of these cra operations." The economic officer shied as a Terrier-sized fur-bearer darted in close and crunched a shiny plastic button from the cuff of his mauve, late nndnKrning, semi-informal hip-huggers. "Oiae never knows just what one may 'be getting into." "Oh-oh." Magnan nudged Retief as a technician bustled from the lock, heavy-laden. "Here comes the classified equipment the ambassador's been sitting on since we left Sector HQ." "Ah!" Ambassador Oldtrick rubbed his small, well manicured hands briskly togeer, lifted an article resembling a Mae West life jacket from the stack offered. "Here, gentlemen, is my personal contribution to, ahem, high-levcl negotiations!" He smiled proudly and slipped his arms through a loop of woven plastic. "Onean, selfcontained, power-boosted aerial lift units," he announced. "With these, gentlemen, we will confront the elusive Zooner on his home ground!" "But -- the post report said the Zooners are a sort of animated blimp!" the Information Officer protested. "Only a few of them have been seen, and those were cruising at high altitude! Surely we're not going after themV "It was inevitable, gentlemen." Oldtrick winced as the technician tugged the harness strap tight across his narrow chest. "Sooner or later man was 'bound to encounter lightertban-air intelligence -- a confrontation for which we of the Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne are eminently well qualified!" "But, your excellency," First Secretary Magnan spoke up. "Couldn't we have arranged to confront these, er, gaseous brains here on solid land?" iC'VTonsense, Magnan! Give up this superb opportunity to display the adaptability of the trained diplomat? Since these beings dwell among the clouds ef their IF aative world, what more convincing evidence of good will could we display than to meet them on their own grounds, so to speak?" "Of course," the corpulent Political Officer put in, "we aren't actually sure there's anyone up there." He squinted nervously up at the lacy mass of land-coral that reached into the Zoonian sky, its lofty pinnacles brushing a seventhousand-foot stratum of cumulonimbus. "That's where we'll steal a march on certain laggards," Oldtrick stated imperhirbably. 'The survey photos clearly show the details of a charming aerial city nestled on the reef. Picture the spectacle, gentlemen, when the Mission descends on them from the blue empyrean to open a new era of Terran-Zoon relations!" "Yes -- a striking mis en scene indeed, as your Excellency points out." The economic officer's cheek gave a nervous twitch. "But what if something goes wrong with the apparatus? The steering mechanism, for example, appears a trifle insubstantial -- " "These devices were designed and constructed under my personal supervision, Chester," the ambassador cut him off coolly. "However," he continued, "don't allow that circumstance to prevent you fiom pointing out any conceptual flaws you may have detected," "A marvel of lightweight ingenunity," ithe economic officer said hastily. "I only meant... " "Chester's point was just that maybe some of us ought to wait here. Mr. Ambassador," the military attache said. "In case any, ah, late dispatches come in from Sector, or something. Much as I'll hate to miss participating, I volunteer -- " "Kindly rebuckie your harness. Colonel," Oldtrick said through thinned lips. "I wouldn't dream of allowing you to make the sacrifice." "Good Lord, Retief," Magnan said in a hoarse whisper behind his hand. "Do you suppose these little tiny things will actually work? And does he really mean..." Magnan's voice trailed off as he stared up into the bottomless sky. "He really means," Retief confirmed. "As for his Excellency's invention, I suppose diat given a largediameter, low-density planet with a standard mass of # and a surface G of .#, plus an atmospheric pressure of # P. S. I. and a super-light gas -- it's possible." "I was afraid of that," Magnan muttered. "I don't suppose that if we all joined together and took a firm line... ?" "Might be a savings at that," Retief nodded judiciously. "The whole staff could be court-martialed as a group." "... and now," Ambassador Oldtrick's reedy voice paused impressively as he settled his iberet firmly in place. "If you're ready, gentlemen -- inflate your gasbags!" A sharp hissing started up as a dozen petcocks opened as one. Bright-colored plastic bubbles inflated with sharp popping sounds above the shoulders of the Terran diplomats. The ambassador gave a little spring and bounded high above the heads of his staff, where he hung, supported by the balloon, assisted by a softly snorting battery of air jets buckled across his hips. Colonel Smartfinger, a large bony man, gave a half-hearted leap, fell back, his toes groping for contact as a gust of air bumbled him across the ground. Magnan, lighter than the rest, made a creditable spring and rose to dangle beside the chief of mission. Retief adj-usted his buoyancy indicator carefully, jumped off as the rest of the staff scrambled to avoid the questionable distinction of being the last man airborne. "Capital, gentlemen!" Oldtrick beamed at the others as they drifted in a ragged row, roped together like alpinists, five yards above the surface. "I trust each of you is ready to savor the thrill of breaking new ground!" "An unfortunate turn of phrase," Magnan quavered, looking down at the rocky outcropping below. The grassy plain on which the lighter had deposited the mission stretched away to the horizon, interrupted only by the upthrusting coral reefs dotted across it like lonely castles in the Daliesque desert and a distant smudge of smoky green. "And now -- onward to what I hope I may, without charges of undue jocularity, term a new high in diplomacy," Oldtrick cried. He advanced his jet control fever and lifted skyward, trailed by the members of his staff. II F ive hundred feet aloft, Magnan clutched the arm of Retief, occupying the adjacent position in the line. "The lighter is lifting off!" He pointed to the slim shape of the tiny Corps vessel, drifting upward from the sands below. "It's abandoning us!" "A mark of the ambassador's confidence that we'll meet with a hospitable reception at the hands of the Zooners," Retief pointed out. "Frankly, I'm at a loss to understand Sector's eagerness to accredit a mission to this wasteland." Magnan raised his voice above the whistling of the sharp wind and the polyphonous huffing of the jato units. "Retief, you seem to have a way of picking up odd bits of information. Any idea what's behind it?" "According to a usually reliable source, the Groaci have their eyes on Zoon -- all five of them. Naturally, if they're interested, the Corps has to beat them to it." "Aha!" Magnan looked wise. "They must know something. By the way," he edged closer. "Who told you? The ambassador? The undersecretary?" "Better than that; the bartender at the departmental snackbar." "Well, I daresay our five-eyed friends will receive a sharp surprise when they arrive to find us already on a cordial basis with the locals. Unorthodox though Ambassador Oldtrick's technique may be. I'm forced to concede that it apIF pears the only way we could have approached these Zooners." He craned upward at the fanciful formation of many-fingered rock past which they were rising. "Odd that none of them have sallied forth to greet us." Relief followed his gaze. "We still have six thousand feet to go," he said. "I suppose we'll find a suitable reception waiting at the top." H alf an hour later, Ambassador Oldtrick in the lead, the party soared above the final rampart to look down on a wonderland of rose and pink violet coral, an intricacy of spires, tunnels, bridges, grottos, turrets, caves, avenues, as complex and delicately fragile as spun sugar. "Carefully, now, gentlemen." Oldtrick twiddled his jato control, dropped in to a gentle landing on a graceful arch spanning a cleft full of luminous gloom produced by the filtration of light through the translucent construction. His staff settled in nearby, gazing with awe at the minarets rising all around them. The ambassador, having twisted a knob to deflate his gasbag and laid aside his flying harness, was frowning as he looked about the silent prospect. "I wonder where the inhabitants have betaken themselves?" He lifted a finger, and six eager underlings sprang to his side. "Apparently the natives are a trifle shy, gentlemen," he stated. "Nose around a bit. Look friendly. And avoid poking into any possibly taboo areas such as temples and public comfort stations." Leaving their deflated gasbags heaped near their point of anival, the Terrans set about peering into caverns and clambering up to ga along twisting alleyways wisding among silent coral palaces. Retief followed a narrow path atop a ridge which curved upward to a point of vantage. Magnan trailed, mopping at his face with a scented tissue. "Apparently no one's at home," he puffed, coming up to the tiny platform from which Relief surveyed the prospect spread bdow. "A trifle disconcerting, I must say. I wonder what sort of arrangements have been laid on for feeding and housing us?" "Another odd thing," Relief said. "No empty beer bottles, tin cans, old newspapers, or fruit rinds. In fact, no signs of haibitation at aH." "It rather appears we've been stood up," the economic officer said indignantly. "Such cheek -- and from a pack of animated intangibles, at thatl" "It's my opinion the town's ibeen evacuated," the political officer said in the keen tones of one delivering an incisive analysis of a omnplex situation. "We may as well leave." "Nonsense!" Oldtrick snapped. "Do you expect me to trot back to Sector and announce that I can't find the government to which I'm accredited?" #reat heavens!" Magnan blinked at a lone dark cloud drifting ominously closer under fhe high overcast. "I thout I sensed something impending. Uh, Mr. Ambassador!" he called, startiiig back down. At that moment, a cry from an adjacent cavern focused  eyes on the military attache, emerging with a short length of what appeared to be tarred rope, charred at one end. "Signs of life, Your Excellancy!" he announced. "A dope-stick butt!" He sniffed it. "Freshly smoked. "Dope-sticks! Nonsense!' Oldtrick prodded the exhibit with a stubby forefinger. "I'm sure the Zooners are far too insubstantial to indulge in such vices." "Ah, Mr. Ambassador," Magnan called. "I suggest we all select a nice dry cave and creep inside, out of the .weather -- " "Cave? Creep? Weather? What weather?" Oldtrick rounded on the First Secretary as he came up. "I'm here to establish diplomatic relations with a newly discovered race, not set up housekeeping!" "riat weather," Magnan said stiffly, pointing at the giant cloud sweeping swiftly down on them at a level which threatened to shroud the party in a fog in a matter of minutes. "Eh? Oh." Oldtrick stared at the approadiing thunderhead. "Yes, well, I was about to suggest we seek shelter. "What about the dope-stick?" The colonel tried to recapture the limelight. "We hadn't finished looking at my dope-stick when Magnan came along with his cloud." "My cloud is of considerably more urgency than your dope-stick. Colonel," Magnan said softly. "Particulaily since, as his excellency has pointed out, your little find couldn't possibly be the property of the Zooners." "Ha! WeU if it isn't the property of the Zooners, then ose is it?" The officer looked at the butt suspiciously, passed it around. Relief glanced at it, sniffed it. "I believe you'll find this to be Groaci manufacture. Colonel," he said. # #TThat?" Oldtrick clapped a VV hand to his forehead. "Impossible! Why, I myself hardly know -- that is, they couldn't -- mean to say, drat it, the location of this world is Utter Top Secret!" "Ahem." Magnan glanced up complacently at his cloud now a battle-ship-sized shape only a few hundred feet distant. "I wonder if it mightn't be as well to hurry along now before we find ourselves drenched." "Good Lord!" The political officer stared at the gray-black mass as it moved across the hazy sun, blotting it out like an eclipse. In the sudden shadow, the wind was abruptly chill. The cloud was above the far edge of the reef now; as they watched, it dropped lower, brushed across a projecting digit of stone with a dry squee!, sent a shower of tiny rock fragments showering down. Magnan jumped and blinked his eyes hard, twice. "Did you see... ? Did  see... ?" Dropping lower, the cloud sailed between two lofty minarets, scraped across a lower tower topped with a series of sharp spikes. There was a ripping sound, a crunch of stone. IF a sharp powU a blattering noise of escaping gas. A distinct odor of rubberized canvas floated across to the diplomats, borne by the brisk breeze. "Ye Gods!" The military attache shouted. "That's no cloud! It's a Trojan horse! A dirigible in camouflage! A trick!" He cut off and turned to run as the foundering four-acre balloon swung, canted at a sharp angle, and thundered down amid gratings and crunchings, crumbling bridges, snapping off slender towers, settling in to blanket the landscape like a collapsed circus tent. A small, agile creature in a flared helmet and a black hip-cloak appeared at its edge, wading across the deflated folds of the counterfeit cloud, cradling a formidable blast gun in its arms. Others followed, leaping down and scampering for strategic positions on the high ground surrounding the Terrans. ' "Groaci shock troops!" the Military Attache shouted. "Run for your lives!" He dashed for the concealment of a shadowy canyon; a blast from a Groaci gun sent a cloud of coral chips after him. Retief, from a position in the lee of a buttress of rocks, saw half a dozen of the Terrans skid to a halt at the report, put up their hands as the invaders swarmed around them, hissing soft Groaci sibilants. Three more Terrans, attempting flight, were captured within fifty feet, prodded back at gunpoint. A moment later a sharp oof! and a burst of military expletives announced the surrender of Colonel Smartfinger. Retief made his way around a rock spire, spotted Ambassador Oldtrick being routed from his hiding place behind a cactusshaped outcropping. ClXTell, fancy meeting you VV here, Hubert." A slightly built, splendidly dressed Groaci strolled forward, puffing at a dopestick held in silver tongs. "I regret to submit you to the indignity of being trussed up like a Gerp-fowl in plucking season, but what can one expect when one commits an aggravated trespass, eh?" Trespass? I'm here in good faith as Terran envoy to Zoon!" Oldtrick sputtered. "S here. Ambassador Shish, this is an outrage! I demand you order these bandits to release me and my staff at once! Do you understand?' "Field Marshal Shish, if you please, Hubert," Shish whispered. 'These are a duly constituted constabulary. If you annoy me, I may just order them to exercise the full rigor of the law which you have so airily disregarded!" "What law?" Your confounded dacoits have assaulted peaceful diplomats in peaceful pursuit of their duties!" "Interplanetary law, my dear sir," Shish hissed. "That section dealing with territorial claims to uninhabited planets." "But -- but the Zooners inhabit Zoon!" "So? An exhaustive search of the entire planetary surface by our Scouting Service failed to turn up any evidence of intelligent habitation." "Surface? But the Zooners don't occupy the surface!" "Exactly. Therefore we have assumed ownership. Now, about reparations and damages in connection with your release. I should about right -- paid directly to me, of course, as Planetary Military Governor, pro tern" hard. "But... but... see here!" He fixed Shish with a desperate eye. "What is it you fellows are after? This isn't the kind of sandydry real estate you Groaci prefer -- and the world has no known economic or strategic value." "Hmmm." Shish flicked his dopestick butt aside. "No harm in tellIF ing you, I suppose. We intend to gather a crop." "Crop? There's nothing growing here but blue grass and land coral I" # #T#rong again, Hubert. The VV crop that interests us is this..." He fingered the edge of his shaggy violet cape. "A luxury fur, light, colorful, nonallergic." He lowered his voice and leered with three eyes. "And with reportedly fabulous aphrodisiac effects; and of it, leaping about the landscape below, free for the harvesting!" "But surely you jest, sir! Those are -- " There was a sudden flurry as one of the Terrans broke free and dashed for a cave. The Groaci constabulary gave chase. Shish made an annoyed sound and hurried away to oversee the recapture. Oldtrick, left momentarily alone, eyed the flying harnesses lying in a heap ten yards from him. He took a deep breath, darted forward, snatched up a harness. As he turned to sprint for cover, a breathy cry announced his discovery. Desperately, the chief of mission struggled into his straps as he ran, twisted the valve, fir his jato units and shot into the air above the heads of a pair of fleet-footed aliens who had been about to lay him by the heels. He passed over Reliefs head at an altitude of twenty feet, driven smartly by the brisk breeze. Relief ducked his head, hugged the shadows as Groaci feet pounded past at close range, pursuing the fleeting Terran. Relief saw half a dozen marksmen taking aim at the airborne diplomat as the wind swept him out over the reefs edge Shots rang. There was a sharp report as a round pierced the gasibag. With a despairing wail, the Ambassador sank swiftly out of sight. Relief rolled to his feet, ran to the pile of flight harnesses, grabbed up two, whirled and sprinted for the edge over which Oldtrick had vanished. Two Groaci, turning to confront the new menace descending on their rear, were bowled aside by Reliefs rush. Another sprang to intercept him, bringing his gun around. Relief caught the barrel in full stride, swung the gun with its owner still clinging desperately to it, slammed the unfortunate alien into the faces of his astounded comrades. Shots split the air past Relief's ear, but without slowing, he charged to the brink and dived over into seven thousand feet of open air. Ill T he uprushing wind shrieked past Reliefs ears like a typbn. Gripping one of the two harnesses in his teeth, he pulled the other on as one would don a vest, buckled the straps. He looked down, squinting against the rush of air. The ambassador, falling free now with his burst balloon fluttering at his back, was twenty feet below. Relief tucked his arms close, kicked his heels up to assume a diver's attitude. The distance between the two men lessened. The rock face flashed past, dangerously close. Relief's hand brushed Oldtrick's foot. The ambassador twisted convulsively to roll a wild eye at Retief, suspended above him in the hurtling airstream. Retief caught the senior diplomat's arm, shoved the spare harness into his hand. A moment later Oldtrick had shed his ruined gasbag and shrugged into the replacement. With a twist of the petcock, he inflated his balloon and at once slowed, falling behind Retief, who opened his own valve, felt the sudden tug of the harness. A moment later, he wa floating lightly a hundred feet bow the ambassador, who was driftihg gently closer. "Quick thinking, my boy," Oldtrick's voice came faintly. "As soon as I'm aboard the transport, I shall summon a heavy PE unit to deal with those ruffians! We'll thwart their inhuman scheme to massacre helpless infant Zooners, thus endearing ourselves to their elders!" He was close now, dropping as Retief rose. "You'd better come along with me," he said sharply as they passed, ten feet apart. "I'll want your corroborative statements, and -- " "Sorry, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "I seem to have gotten hold of a heavy-duty unit. It wants to go up, and the valve appears to be stuck." "Come back," Oldtrick shouted as he dropped away below the younger man. "I insist that you accompany me!" "I'm afraid it's out of my hands now, sir," Retief called. "I suggest you stay out of sight of any colonist who may have settled in down below. I have an idea they'll be a little trigger happy when they discover their police force is stranded on the reef, and a dangling diplomat will make a tempting target." T he southwest breeze bore Retief along at a brisk twentymile-per-hour clip. He twisted the buoyancy control lever both ways, to no avail. The landscape dwindled away below him, a vast spread of soft aquamarine hills. From this height, immense herds of creatures were visible, ranging in color from pale blue to deep grapejuice. They appeared, Retief noted, to be converging on a point not far from the base of the coral reef, where a number of black dots might have been small structures. Then the view was obscured, first by whipping streamers of fog, then by a dense, wet mist which enveloped him like a cool, refreshing Turkish bath. For ten minutes he swirled blindly upward; then watery sunshine penetrated, lighting the vapor to a golden glow; a moment later he blue sky arched above the blinding white cloud-plain. Squinting against the glare, he saw a misty shape of pale green projecting above the clouds at a distance he estimated at five miles. Using steering jets, he headed for it. Fifteen minutes later, he was close enough to make out thick, glossy yellow columns, supporting masses of chartreuse foliage. Closer, the verdure resolved into clusters of leaves the size of tablecloths, among IF which gaudy blossoms dione scariet. In the leafy depths, the sun striking down from zeni was filtered to a deep, green-gold gloom. Retief maneuvered toward a stuidylooking branch, only at the last moment saw the yard-long thorns concealed in the shadow of the spreading leaves. He ducked, twisted aside from the savage stab of a needle-point, heard the rip and kerpow! as his gaag burst, impaled; then be slammed bard against a thigh-thick, glass-mooth branch, grabbed with both bands and both legs, and braked to a halt inches from an upthrust dagger of horny wood. A ll around, life swarmed, humming, buzzing, chattering in a hundred oddly euphonious keys. There were fluffy, spherical birdthings in vivid colors; darting scaled runners like jeweled ferrets; swartns of tiny golden four-winged butterflies. Once something hooted, far away, and for a moment the chorus was stilled to resume a moment later. Loddng down, Retief could see nothing but level afte level of leafy branches, blotting out the swirling clouds two hundred feet below. The ground, he estimated, was a mile and a half farther -- not what could be described as an easy dimb. Still, it looked like the only way. He divested himself of the ruined altitude harness, picked a route and started down. Retief had covered no more than fifty feet when a sudden flurry of motion caught ins eye tiirough the foliage. A moment later, a clump of leaves leaned aside, pushed by a gust of wind, to reveal a bulky, ghost-pale creature, its body covert with short white bristles, its head a flattened spheroid. Its multiple shiny back limbs threshed wildly against the restraint of a web of silky, scarlet threads, stretched between limbs in an intricate spird pattern. A flat pouch, secured by a flat strap, bobbed against the trapped creature's side. The web, Retief saw, was constructed at the very tip of a pair of long boughs which leaned in a deep curve under the weight of the victim -- and of something else. Peering into the shadows, he saw a foot-long claw like a pair of oversized garden shears poised in the air two feet from the trapped being. Then he noted that the claw was attached to an arm like a sixfoot length of stainless steel pipe, which as attached, in turn, Co a body encased in silvery-Wue annor plate, almost invisible in the leafy gloom. As Reti watdied, the aim lunged, beared through a cluster of awning-sized leaves, snipped off a tuft of stiff white hairs as the snared one made a desperate hound sideways. The aggressor, it appeared, had advanced as far along the fragile support as possible; but it was only a matter of time until the murderous pincer connected with its target. Retief checked his pockets, produced a pocket knife with a twoinch blade, useful chiefly for cutting the tips from hand-rolled Jorgensen cigars. He used it to saw IF through a half-inch thick vine drooping near him. He coiled the rope over his shoulder and started back up. IV F rom a branch far above, Retief peered down through the leafy shadows at the twelve-foot monstrosity that was clinging head down from a six-inch stem. The predator had stretched itself out to its utmost length in its effort to reach the victim trapped below. Retief slid down to a crouch witiiin touching distance of the monster's main hind leg. He flipped out the lariat he had fashioned hastily from the length of pliable vine, passed its end under the massive ankle joint, whipped it quickly into a slip knot which would tighten under pressure. He tied the other end of the rope to a sturdy bole at his back, pulling it up just short of taut. Then he slid around the trunk and headed back for the scene of the action, paying out a second rope, the end of which was secured to a stout limb. The trapped creature, huddled at the extreme extent of the rein given it by the binding strands of silk, saw Retief, gave a convulsive bound which triggered another snap of the claw. "Stand pat," Retief called softly. "I'll try to distract his attention." He stepped out on a slender branch, which sagged but held. Holding the end of the rope in his free hand, he made his way to within ten feet of the web. Above, the claw-creature, sensing movement nearby, poked out a glittering eye at the end of atwo-foot rod, studied Retief from a distaioce of five yards. Retief watched the claw, which hovered indecisively ready to strike in either direction. A baseball-sized fruit was growing within easy reach. Retief phicked it, took air, and pitched it at the eye. It struck and burst, spattering the surrounding foliage with a sticky yellow goo and an odor of overripe melon. Quick as thought, the claw struck out straight at Retief as he jumped, gripping the vine, and swung in a graceful Tarzan-style arc across toward a handy landing platform thirty feet distant. The armored meat-eater, thwarted, lunged vainly after him. The sudden strain on the behemoth's overextended grip was too much. There was a noisy rasping of metal-'hard hooks against wood, a frantic shaking of branches; then the barrel-shaped body came crashing down -- and snapped to a halt with a tremendous jerk os the rope lashed to its leg came up short. Retief, safely lodged in his new platform, caught a momentary glimpse of an open mouth lined with Hanks of multipronged teeth. Then, with a sharp zongl the rope supporting the monster parted. The apparition dropped away, smashing its way downward with a series of progressively fainter concussions until it was lost in the depths below. Te bristled #oonite sagged heav' A iiy in the net, watching Retief shirt buttons as he sawed thioi the strands of the web with his pocket knife. Freed, it di;ed into its hip-pouch with a fournfingeired hand encased in a glove, ornamented with polished, inch#ong talons, brought out a small cylinder which it raised to its middle eye. "Hrikk' it said in a soft rasp. A mouth like Jack Pumpkinhead gaped in an unreadable expression. There was a bright flash which made a green after-image dance on Relief's retina. The alien dropped the object back in the pouch, took out a second artifact resembling a footlong harmonica, which it adjusted on a loop around its neck. At once, it emitt a series of bleeps, toots and deep, resonant thrums, then looked at Relief in a way which seemed expectant. "If I'm not mistaken, that's a Groaci electronic translator," Relief said. "Trade goods like the camera, I presume?" "Correct," the device interpreted the small alien's rasping tones. "By George, it works!" "The Groaci are second to none, when it comes to miniaturized electronics and real-estate acquisition," Relief said. "Real estate?" the Zoonite inquired with a rising inflection. "Planetary surfaces," Relief explained. "Oh, that. Yes, I'd heard they'd settled in down below. No doubt a pregermination trauma's at the root of the matter. But, every being to his , own form of self-destruction, as Zerd so succinctly put it ibefore he dissolved himself in fuming nitric acid." The alien's button eyes roved over Retief. "Though I must say your own death-wish takes a curious form." "Oh?" "Teasing a vine-jack for a starter," the Zoonite amplified. "That's dangerous, you know. The claw can snip through six inches of gilv as though it were a zoob-patty." "Actually, I got the impression the thing was after you," Retief said. "Oh, it was, it was. Almost got me, too. Hardly worth the effort. I'd make a disappointing meal." The Zoonite fingered its translator, the decorative claws clicking tinnily on the shiny plastic. "Am I to understand you came to my rescue intentionallyT it said. R etief nodded. "Whatever for?" "On the theory that one intelligent being should keep another from being eaten alive, whenever he conveniently can." "Hmmm. A curious concept. And now I suppose you expect me to reciprocate?" "If it doesn't inconvenience you," Retief replied. "But you look so, so edible..." Without warning, one of the alien's ebon legs flashed out, talons spread, in a vicious kick. It was a fast stroke, but Retief was faster; shifting his weight slightly, he intercepted the other's shin with the edge of his shoe, eliciting a sharp report. The Zooner yelped, simultaneously lashed out, left-right, with a pair of arms -- to meet painful interceptions as Retief struck upward at one with the edge of his IF hand, down at the other. In the next instant, a small hand gun was pressing into the alien's paunchbristles. "We Terries are handy at small manufacturing, too," Retief said easily. "This item is called a crater gun. You'll understand why when you've seen it fired." "... but appearances can be so deceiving," the Zoonite finished its interrupted sentence, wringing its numbed limbs. "A natural mistake," Retief commiserated. "Still, I'm sure you wouldn't have found me any more nourishing than the vine-jack would have found you. Incompatible body chemistry, you know." "Yes. Well, in that case, I may as well be off." The Zooner backed a step. "Before you go," Retief suggested, "there are some matters we might discuss to our mutual profit." "Oh? What for example?" "The invasion of Zoon, for one, And ways and means of getting back back down to Zoona Firma for another." "You are a compulsive. And it's highly channelized neurosis: A vinejack or my humble self won't do; it has to be the hard ay." "I'm afraid your translator is out of adjustment," Retief said. "Hiat doesn't seem to mean anything." "I find your oblique approach a trifle puzzling, too," the alien confided. "I sense that you're trying to tell me something, but I can't for the life of me guess what it might be. Suppose we go along to my place for an aperitif, and possibly we can enlighten each other. By the way, I'm known as Qoj, the Ready Biter." "I'm Retief, the Occasional Indulger," the Terran said. "Lead the way, Qoj, and I'll do my best to follow." V I t was a breath-taking thirtyminute journey through the towering tree tops. The alien progressed by long, curiously dreamlike leaps from one precarious rest to another, while Retief made his way as rapidly as possible along interlacing branches and bridges of tangled vine, keenly aware of the bottomless chasm yawning below. The trip ended at a hundred-foot spherical space where the growth had been cleared back to create a sliady, green-lit cavern. Bowers and leafy balconies were nestled around its periphery; tiny, fragilelooking terraces hung suspended under the shelter of sprays of giant fronds. There were several dozen Zooners in sight, some lounging on the platforms or perched in stemmounted chairs which swayed dizzingly to the light breeze; others sailed gracefully from one roost to another, while a few hung by one or more limbs from festooning vines, apparently sleeping. "rU introduce you around," the Zooner said. "Otherwise the fellows will be taking experimental cracks at you and getting themselves hurt. I'm against that, because an injured Zooner is inclined to be disagreeable company." He flipped a switch on the translator and emitted a sharp cry. Zooner heads turned. Qoj spieled off a short speech, waved a hand at Retief, who inhdined his head courteously. The locals eyed the Terran incuriously, went back to their previous activities. Qoj indicated a tiny table mounted atop a ten-foot rod, around which three small seats were arranged, similarly positioned. Retief hastily scaled the support, took up his seat like a flagpole sitter. Qoj settled in oppKwke him, the stem quivering and swaying under his weight. He whistl shrilly, and a black-spotted gray creature came sailing in a broad leap, took orders, bounded away, returned in a moment with aromatic flagons. # # # h." Qoj leaned back com- fortably witii two pairs of legs crossed. "Nothing like a litde bottled Nirvana, eh?" He lifted his flask and poured the contents in past a row of pronged, teeth rivaling those of the vine-jack. "Quite an interesting place you have here." Retief unobtrusively sniffed his drink, sampled it. The fluid evaporated instantly on his tongue,  leaving a fruity aroma. "It's well enough, I suppose," Qoj assented, "under the circumstances." "What circumstances are those?" "Not enough to eat. Too many predators -- like that fellow you dispatched. Cramped environment -- no place to go. And of course, cut off as we are from raw materials, no hope for technological advancement. Let's face it, Retief: we're up the tree without a paddle." Retief watched a bulky Zooner sail past in one of the feather-light leaps characteristic of the creatures. "Speaking of technology," he said. "How do you manage that trick?" "What trick?" "You must weigh three hundred pounds -- but when you want to, you float like a dandelion seed." "Oh, that. Just an inhwent knack, I guess you'd call it. Even our spore-pods have it; otherwise, they'd smash when they hit the ground. It's not much good for anything but short hops, you know." "Organis antivity," Retief said admiringly. "Or perhaps teleportation would be a better name." "The gland responds to mental imIF pulses," Qoj said. "Fortunately, our young have no mentality to speak of, so they're grounded. Otherwise we'd never have a moment's peace." He tossed another shot down his throat, lounging back in his diair as it swayed past Retief, rebounded to swing in the opposite direction, while Retief s perch waved in gentle counterpoint, a motion which tended to cross the eyes and bring a light sweat to the forehead. "Oh. I wondered why there were no little ones gamboling about your doorstep," Retief said. "Doorstep?" Qoj jerked upright and stared in alarm toward the shaded entrance to his bower. "Great slavering jaws, Retief, don't give me a start like thatl The little monsters are down on the surface where they belongl" "Unattended?" Qoj shuddered. "I suppose we really ought to be doing something about them, but frankly -- h's too dangerous." R etief raised an eyebrow in polite inquiry. "Why, the little fiends would strip the very crust off the planet if they weren't able to assuage their voracity by eating each other." "So that's why you don't occupy the surface." "Um. If our ancestors hadn't taken to the trees, we'd be extinct by now -- devoured by our own offspring," "And I suppose your apparent indifference (to the arrival of the Groad is based on the same reasoning?" "Feeding season's about to begin," Qoj said offhandedly. "Those fellows won't last a day. Not much juice in them, though -- at least not in the one I met." "That would be the previous owner of the camera and the translator?" "Correct. Interesting chap. He was buzzing about an odd little contrivance with whirling vanes on top and ran afoul a loop of string-vine. My, wasn't he full of plans." The Zooner sipped his flask, musing. "The Groaci, individually, don't look like much. I'll agree," Retief said. "But they have a rather potent subnuclear arsenal at their command. And it appears they're about to launch a general offensive against your young." "So? Maybe they'll clear the little nuisances out. Then we can descend to the ground and start living like gentlebeings." "What about the future of the race?" "Jiar for the future of the race." Qoj made a complicated gesture with obscure biological implications. "We're only concerned about ourselves." "Still," Retief countered, "you were young once." "If you're going to be crude," the Zooner said with inebriated dignity, "you may leave me." "Sure," Retief said. "But before I go, would you mind describing these little fellows?" "In shape, they're not unlike us adults; they come in all sizes, from this -- " Qoj held two talon fingers an inch apait -- "to this." He indicated a yard and a half. "And of course, the baby fur. Ghastly blue fuzz a foot long." "Did you say... blue?" "Blue." Retief nodded thoughtfully. "You know, Qoj, I think we have the basis for a cooperative undertaking after all. If you'll give me another five minutes of your time, I'll explain it to you... " VI F lanked by Qoj and another Zooner named Omx the Eager Eater, Retief dropped down through the cloud layer, propelled by a softly hissing steering jet salvaged from his punctured lift harness. "That's it, dead ahead," he pointed to the towering coral reef, pale rose-colored in the distance. "Wheel" Qoj squealed with delight as he pulled up abreast of Retief with a shrill whistling of his borrowed jet. "Capital idea, Retief, these little squirt-#x)tties! You know, I never dreamed flying could be such fun! Always lived in dread of getting out of reach of a branch and just drifting aimlessly until one of the boys or some other predator got me. With these, a whole new dimension opens up! I can already detect a lessening of sibling rivalry drives and inverted Oedipus syndromes!" "Don't let your released tensions go to your head, Qoj," Retief cautioned. "The Groaci may still take a little managing. You hang back while I go in to check the lie of the land." Minutes later, Retief swept in above the convoluted surface of the coral peak. No Groaci were to be seen, but half a dozen Terrans were wandering aimlessly about their lofty prison. They ran forward with glad cries as Retief landed. "Good show, my boy!" Colonel Smartfinger pumped his hand. "I knew you wouldn't leave. us stranded here! Those rascals Groaci commandeered our harnesses." "But -- where are the reinforcements," the political officer demanded, staring around. "Where's the lighter? Where's His Excellency? Who are (hese creatures?" He eyed the Zooners, circling for a landing. "Where have you been, Retief?" He broke off, staring. "And where's your harness?" "I'll tell you later." Retief motioned the diplomats toward the deflaited Groaci gasbag now draped limply across the rocks. "There's no time to dally. I'm afraid. All aboard." "But -- it's punctured!" Smartfinger protested. "It certainly won't fly, man!" "It will when our new allies finish," Retief diligently reassured the colonel. The Zooners were already busy, bustling about the ersatz cloud, stuffing fistfuls of seed-pods inside. A corner of it stirred lazily, lifted to flap gently in the breeze. One side curled upward, tugging gently. "You know what to do," Retief called to Qoj. "Don't waste any time following me down." He jumped into the air, thumbed the jet control wide open, and headed for the next stop at flank speed. IF I 'wo thirds of the way down the sheer wall of the coral reef, a small figure caught Retief's eye, perched disconsolately in a crevice on the rock. He swung closer, saw the spindly shanks and fiveeyed visage of a Groaci, his oncesplendid raiment in tatters. "Well, Field MarshaU Shish," he called. "What's the matter, conditions down below not to your liking?" "Ambassador Shish, if you please," the castaway hissed in sorrowful Groaci. "To leave me in solitude, soft One; to have suffered enough." "Not nearly enough," Retief contradicted. "'However, all is not yet lost. I take it your valiant troops have encountered some sort of difficulty below?" "The spawn of the pits fell upon us while I was in my bath!" the Groaci whispered, speaking Terran now. 'They snapped up a dozen of my chaps before I could spring from the tub of hot sand in which I had been luxuriatingl I was fortunate to escape with my life! And then your shoddy Terran-made harness failed and dropped me here. Alack! Gone are the dreams. of a procuratorship." "Maybe not." Retief maneuvered in close, held out a hand. "##I give you a piggyback and explain how matters stai. Maybe you can still salvage something from the wreckage." Shish canted his eye-stalks. "Piggyback? Are you insjuie, Retief? VTiy, there's nothing hdding you up! How can it hold two of us?" "Take it or leave it, Mr. Ambassador," Retief said. "I have a tight schedule." "I'll take it." Shish gingerly swung his scrawny frame out and scrambled to a perch on Retiefs back, four of his eyes sphinctered tight shut. "But if I hadn't already been contemplating suicide, nothing would have coaxed me to it." F ive minutes later, Retief heard a hail. He dropped down, settled onto a narrow ledge beside the slight figure of Ambassador Oldtrick. The senior diplomat had lost his natty beret, and there was a scratch on his cheek. His flight harness, its gas bag flat, hung on a point of rock behind him. "What's this? Who's captured whom? Retief, are you... ?" "Everything's fine, your excellency," Retief said soothingly. "I'll just leave his Groacian excellency here with you. I've had a little talk with him, and he has something he wants to tell you. The staff will be along in a moment, to help out." "But -- you can't -- " Oldtrick broke off as a dark shadow flitted across the rock. "Duck! It's that confounded cloud back again!" "It's all right," Retief called as he launched himself into space. "It's on our side now." A t the long table in the main dining room aboard the heavy Corps transport which had been called in to assist in the repatriation of the Groaci Youth Scouts marooned on Zoon after the local fauna had dievoured their ship supplies, Magnan nudged Redef. "Rather a surprising about-face on the part of Ambassador Shish," he muttered. "When that fake cloud dumped us off on the rock ledge with him, I fear the worst." "I think he'd had a spiritual experience down below that made him see the light," Relief suggested. "Quite an equitable division of spheres of influence the ambassadors agreed on," Magnan went on. "The Groaci seem quite pleased with the idea of erecting blast-proof barriers to restrain those ferocious little eaters to one half the planet, and acting as herdsmen over them, in return for the privilege of collecttheir hair when they moult." "I wouldn't be surprised if they didn't sneak out a few pelts beforehand." Colonel Smartfinger leaned to contribute. "Still, the Zooners don't seem to mind, eh, Omx?" "No problem," the Zooner said airly. 'We're glad to wink at a few little violations in return for free access to our own real estate." There was a sharp dinging as Ambassador Oldtrick rose and tapped his glass with a fork. "Gentlemen -- gendebeings, I should say." He smirked at the Groaci and Zooners seated along the board. "It's my pleasure to announce the signing of the TerranZoon accord, under the terms of which we've been ceded all rights in the coral reef of our choice on which to place our chancery, well out of reach of those nasty little -- that is, the untutored -- I mean, er. playfully inclined..." He quailed under the combined glares of a dozen rows of pink eyes. "If he brings those abominations into the conversation again, I'm walking out," Qoj said loudly. "So we're going to be relegated to the top of that dreadful skyscraper?" Magnan groaned. 'We'll be communting by patent gasbag." "Ah!" Oldtrick brightened, glad of a change of subject. "I couldn't help overhearing your remark, Magnan. And I'm pleased to announce that I have just this afternoon developed a startling new improvement to my flight harness. Observe!" All eyes were on the Ambassador as he rose gently into the air, hung, beaming from a height of six feet. "I should mention that I had some assistance from Mr. Relief in, ah, working out some of the technicalities," he murmured as the Terrans crowded around, competing for the privilege of offering their congratulations. "Heavens! And he's not even wearing a balloon!" Magnan gasped. "How do you suppose he does it?" "Easy," Qoj gted. "He's got a pocketful of price-quality Zooner spore-pods." B eside him. Ambassador Shish gave an annoyed hiss. "Somehow, I can't escape the conviction that we Groaci have been had again." He rose, leaving the room. "Hmph," Magnan sniffed. "He got what he wanted, didn't he?" 'True," Retief said, rising. "But it's some people's ill luck to always IF IF  Our Man in Fandom All about Hugos. Speaking of which, guess which magazine just won one? E very year at the annual worid sdenoefiction convention a half dozen liitde stainless ste model rocketships on wooden bases are handed out to deserving sciencefiotion writers, ediiors, artists and fans. Just like television's "Emmy" and the movies' "Oscar," this trophy bears an affectionate nickname -- the "Hugo." And it's awarded for much the same reason: excellence, Sdencefiction people, just like television insiders and movie folk, like to recognize and reward a striving toward excellence. Oh, sure -- sometimes you can quibble with the choice of winner for this or that category, sometimes you won't agree with the majority decision of the voters, but I think the science-Ection world is more often right than wrong in their annual achievement awards. Much more often right, for instance, than the fogeys who give out the Pulitzer Prize for excdlence in American Hteraiture, and somehow manage to overlook authors like Thomas Wolfe, geniusype poets like Ezra Pound, and mind-crackiny good novels like Lolita or Catch-ZZ!) From Laureate to Statuette The urge to award the outstanding has been with us in the sf world as long as there have been fans. Fandom's major amateur publishers' dub, F.A.PA., has a provision for annual ktureateship awards written into its constitution. Fapans give fiilk-soreened award certiates (or did, kst I heard) for such categories as mechanical excellence or innovation in publishing techniques, creative editing with high standards, quality of writing, and so on. Various fanmags at various times have given out awards -- one of the earliest being Fan Editor PubUsher, which has long since gone under -- and many other mags conduct annual polls of their readers' choice of Fandom's outstanding people of the year -- best famdnc, best new fan, best writer, or humorist, or poet. And they used to name the single fan of the year whose achievements made him the "Number One Fan Face." Then there are the fanzines that give awards in the professional ranks, not in the fan world. Oldtime fan Walt Daugherty was an early mover behind this; way back at the Third World Science Fiction Convention at Denver in #I he was passing out medals. And, today, the fanzine I myself edit sporadically, between enormous and lengthy periods of do-nothing, has an annual list of the # best books of the science-fiction year and four "Spectrum Awards" for best science-fiction book (novel, anthology or collection); best fantasy or weird; bt children's book and best amateur book or pamphlet. (To explain the award's name, the magazine is an all-book-review thing called Spectrum.) It's currently in the doldrums, but shall return. Then came the Hugo, and here's how it happened. Hoi and the Hugo Lots of conventions passed out honors and awards of various kinds; its been happening ever since the #st World Science Fiction Convention in New York City in #. Sometimes these awards are informal, sort of tokens of honor, and sometimes more formal and elaborate. For example, take The International Fantasy Award. This has been awarded only three or four times and always on a very informal lastminute basis. In # it was given to Clifford D. Simak for City, runaway all-time classic and my personal favorite from Simak. George Stewart also won the International Fantasy Award for his novel Earth Abides. This award is granted by decision of a jury. Like the third award, for instance: nine or ten highly qualified judges were polled; among them was Donald A. Wollheim, editor-in-chief of Ace Books. They gave the International Fantasy Award to Professor J.R.R. Tolkien for his world-famous fantasy trilogy. The Lord of the Rings. Hardly anyone would quibble with that choice, but, still, the jury-award system does lack personal participation, while the Hugo is given on the basis of ballot-box voting by Worldcon attendees. The idea of the Hugo first arose in the mind of a Philadelphia fan IF named Hal Lynch, who has since moved to New York. The year was #, and it was a couple of months before the Labor Day weekend when the #th Convention was to be held in Philadelphia. Hal got his bright idea by analogy with Hollywood's annual Oscar orgy and passed it on to the convention committee. After some fumbling around -- all conventions are put on by a small number of ferociously busy, terrifically overworked people who never get enough help and rarely get any sleep either before or during their convention -- after some initial difficulties, I say, a chap named Jack McKnight of Lansdale, Pennsylvania got the job done. He designed and hand-crafted the first Hugos: little rocketships of stainless steel, adorned with fins at tail and midsection, standing on round wooden bases fitted out with inscribed plates. These were passed out, nine of 'em, to great excitement and enthusiasm. Alfred Bester won the novel award for The Demolished Man, easily one of the very finest sciencefiction novels of #, or any other year, for that matter. Willy Ley got one for non-fiction science writing, Forrest J. Ackerman for fan activities, and Philip Jose Farmer, as most outstanding new science-fiction writer of the year. There were awards given in seven categories, but actually nine Hugos were given out, because of ties. Hannes one of the greatest fantasy artists of all time, tied with Ed Emshwiller as best cover artist, and Galaxy and Astounding tied as best professional magazine of the year. The ninth and last of the little steel spaceships went to Virgil Finlay as best interior illustrator. And that was it. Nobody really thought of making the Hugo an every-year thing; in fact, at the next year's convention (the #th World Science Fiction Convention at San Francisco in #) there were no awards of any kind. Nor were these first Hugos called Hugos; officially, they were "The Science Fiction Achievement Awards." Before I get into how, where and when the Hugos were revived, let's answer the question no doubt vibrating in many of your little minds -- to wit: Who was "Hugo"? In # a young man of # named Hugo Gernsback came to this country from Luxembourg, which is one of those little vestpocket-ized European countries. Radio was a burgeoning young giant in those dim, far-off days of # years ago, and the new field of electronics was just getting started. Mr. Gernsback was fascinated by the potentials of these brave new worlds and, somehow or other, drifted into magazine publishing. He printed things called The Electrical Experimenter and Modern Electrics, He published the first radio catalogue in history and the first book on radio, says sf historian Sam Moskowitz. He took out patents, ran a "liain" radio station, and did a lot of otiher tinngs, one of them being the invention of science fiction itself as a viable magazine classification. It seems the slow, creeping pace of real-life scientific experiment was too darn slow for the young man from Luxembourg. UnaWe to keep his lively imagination chained to the advance of modern science, he began interspersing some hard-headed futuristic predictions (both as fact articles and as fiction) in amongst the pages of his publications. Eventually came an all-fiction issue of his magazine Science and Invention in August #. And the success of that experiment led him to found the first science-fiction magazine in the world. Not only did he found the world's first science-fiction magazine, but he actually coined the phrase "science ifiction" itself, thus giving our field a name and adding a new term to the English language. He has also written some science fiction, such as the famous novel Ralph #C#-(this futuristic numerical last name is a joke -- read it like this: "Ralph, one to foresee for one plusr). This novel may not be too distinguished as a piece of fiction, but it has earned him several accolades from the scientific world. In it he hit what must have been an all-time high for successful predicting. He accurately foresaw and described "fluorescent lighting, skywriting, automatic packaging madhines, plastics, the radio directional range finder, juke boxes' -- them we could have happily done without! -- not to mention "Squid fertilizer, hydroponics, tape recorders, rustproof steel, loud speakers, night baseball, aquacades, microfilm, television, radio networks, vending machines dispensing hot and cold foods, flying saucers, a device for teaching while the user is asleep, solar energy for heat and power, fabrics from glass, synthetic materials such as nylon for wearing apparel, and, of course, space travel." (The list was admiringly compiled by Sam Moskowitz.) And, last but not least, radar -- which he not only described most accurately but actually diagrammed! Well, what with all this, Gernsback -- still alive and going strong -- came to be known as "The Father of Science Fiction." And, just naturally, what with "Emmy" and "Oscar and the Mystery Writers of America's "Edgar" -- they had to name the little steel rocketships "Hugo" in affectionate honor of the pioneer who started the whole thing and blazed several trails we are still following (such as space sickness; Gernsback accurately described the vertigo-cum-nausea of freefall in his Ralph #C#-f, but we had to wait until modem science caught up with him, as it did in the #'s when the Air Force space laboratory experiments simulated free fall conditions and found the same sort of physiological symptoms that Gemsback described back in #. How's that for predicting?) IF From Cleveland in '# to Cleveland in '# now. This year's convention as readers of Our Man In Fandom know, was also at Cleveland. In the Meanwhile, back at the world next issue of Worlds of If! we'll science fiction conventions, they fitalk about some of the famous novnally came to realize the idea behind els and famous authors, artists, an annual sf award was both sound magazines and fan publications that and popular. At the #th Convenhave been given science-fiction's tion -- Cleveland, # -- the supreme accolade, the Hugo. We'll awards were revived and given out also discuss this year's Hugo winners, as "The Second Annual Science and we'll have a few things to say Fiction Achievement Awards." about the new set of awards -- the (They weren't officially called HuNebula Awardsr -- now being given gos until Los Angeles and #.) It out each year by the Science Fiction was proposed at the Cleveland conWriters of America, the professional vention that the Hugo be made a science-fiction writer's society. See regular part of the annual doin's, you in these pages, next month! IF  Serial The He had given himself over fo Man's age-old enemies, the monsters that were called Amsirs -- and now he had fo pay for his treason with his life! What Has Gone Before n the Beginning was the Thorn. The world is flat and circular; a sunken desert, cold, wanly lit, nearly airless. The Thorn is high, blunt, nearly featureless; a metal tower at the center of the world, and only around it are things any different. The farms have been around the Thorn since time began, inside the perimeter of air and warmth somehow clinging to the Thorn. Beyond that perimeter there is no water, warmth or breath. Men and women are born farmers, have children and die. When they die, they go to Ariwol where there s happiness for everyone, and feast goes on forever. Out in the desert live animals called Amsirs -- man-sized, flightless, bat-winged, predatory, unbreathing. Killed and brought back to the Thorn, these are the source of that rare delicacy, meat. Their bones provide the darts and throwing sticks with which they are killed, and their hard, bulbous skins, suitably trimmed out, provide the bubblesf in which drinking water is carried out into the desert by the aristocratic Honors, whose only occupation in life is honning Amsirs. Boy children of the Thorn vie with each other and attempt to make it through the rigorous training ritual, so that they may grow up to be Honors. Most drop out and turn Farmer. Only a few get through the ritual far enough to be issued one of the metal caps that somehow provide a man with air and insulation beyond the perimeter of the farmland. Once he has killed his first Amsir and brought it back to the Thorn, a Honor has few worries. He lives inside the Thorn and is maintained by the community. Any piece of farmer property, such as food and women, is his on demand. The only drawback to this life of ease is the need to periodically go out and kill additional Amsirs, who are objects of terror but not much information in the Farmer community. In one brief day, novice Honor Jackson finds out how much of the foregoing is either an outright lie or a distortion of the truth. The Amsir he finally does kill only tries to make him surrender, calling to him ' in perfectly understandable speech, and carries but doesnt use a metal spear which is a weapon far superior to anything known by the people of the Thorn. The facts that the Amsirs are intelligent, hostile but not vicious, and have a clear but unknown aggressive purpose directed toward the people of the Thorn, are Honor trade secrets, Jackson learns when he gets back to the Thorn. His own elder brother, armed and waiting in ambush, first makes sure that Jackson bears no telltale spear wounds and is sufficiently proud of having made his kill not to spill his discovery to the farmers. The Eld Honor also checks him out, and though Jackson is clearly bitter, the Eld decides ifs only the same bitterness thafs always made him a loner and represents no present danger to the Honor system. In fact, the Eld professes admiration for Jacksons long-standing traits of character and intelligence, considers him of the elite among Honors and treats him as one of his intellectual and spiritual heirs. This legacy is to be collected only provided he keeps his nose clean. There are other inducements to conformity besides this one; after all, every Honor who survived his novice honn has a vested interest in making sure no one upsets the structure of the society. Jackson feels he owes it to himsdf to be nobody s fool. He slips back out into the desert is ambushed by but kills Red FUson, who is the Ehis chief enforcer and who, incidentally and quite legitimately, long ago killed Jackson's father because he wanted Jackson's mother, (Some of Jackson s early cynicism may stem from the fact that his father was a Honor just like Filson, as well as from the fact that his elder brother is such a square). Having done all that, Jackson immediately surrenders to an Amsir, who provides him with Amsir-manufactured bottles of air and water, and robes to keep him warm -- all made of human skin -- and marches off, out to the towering rim of the world, up the rim, and onto the crest. There Jackson sees another world spread out before him. Equally circular, sunken, and flat, equally dominated by a Thorn, this one is choked from rim to rim with air, with fields, colorful fairytale houses, and the winged Amsirs soaring with joy, gambolling in the light of early morning. 'Ariwolr Jackson laughs, sore, wounded, exhausted, but not pious. "Ariwoir XI will have to climb down,"  die Amsir said, showing JacksOB a place on the rim where you could see something that looked like a path. "You can leave those things here." The Amsir nodded his head toward the robes Jackson was cairyhig over his good arm. "They will be taken." Jackson dropped the stuff on the ground. When the Amsir neigendy knocked his spear point against the iron cap, Jackson took that off too and set it down on top of the pile. All he had left now was the dart, still trapped in the joint of his left dbow, and the human-leather tourniquet. He shrugged and began to scramble down. It was six or eight times his own height to the ground. The Amsir did something that must have given him a lot of pleasure. He stepped off a steep place in the rim, cupped his wings, and pivoted luxuriantly so as to be able to keep watching Jackson while he drifted downward. Every so often he beat his wings once or twice gracefully and kept himself froln sinking down too quickly. For Jackson, clambering down wasn't any picnic. He had to do it all one-handed, which meant that often enough he had to brace himself by leaning his face or his chest into the broken rock and grit so as to keep his feet from sliding. It was just too damn bad, wasn't it, he thought. He began running into patches of the pretty blue-green stuff that he world so attractively right up to the rim. It was cheesy and brittle; it broke off and smeared under his hand and against his body when he rubbed against rocks it was growing on. It smeUed sharp in the way old bread dough tasted, and it came apart in little leafy chips. Jackson had never seen anything like it before, but while it looked fine from up there on the rim, down here with IF it, it looked a little bit like sometng that had made somebody sick. He got down to the Amsir world with a half-twist of his body that left him leaning against the rocks at the bottom of the rim. From down here it was only a ntle slope for maybe a dozen dozen strides, and then everything flattened out. Already, from this angle, most of his view of the Amsir Thom was blocked by the Amsir houses stilting their way into the air. It all looked a little different -- not as spread out, and pretty crowded. His left forearm and hand were turning purplish white. The Amsir came down lightly a few strides away from him as he stopped to loosen the tie above his elbow and leaned watching the blood squirt out around the dart. He tried to work his hand, and finally he reached over with his right hand, pushing against the crooked stiffness in his fingers. A little bit of that and he was able to make his thumb and forefinger twitch toward each other. They were also beginning to feel like he was holding them in a fire. Profit and loss. He tied the leather band tightly again. The Amsir said: "Do you have any idea of how long that will need to heal?" 'T don't know. Long time, I guess. Tell yoii better after somebody helps me get this dart out." "We have individuals who can do that, but I don't mean how long until it is perfect; in your expenence, how long until it can do work?" "Look, I don't know. Six, nine days. Maybe twelve. Maybe three." "Three...' the Amsir repeated to himself thoughtfully. He looked Jackson up and down. "No sooner?" "Look, I told you -- " Jackson stopped and let it go. Peo never believed anything they hadn't touched, and the Amsir didn't have any dart in his elbow. The Amsir was just fine standing there with his lace drifting perkily around him, in the breeze that swept toward the rim along the floor of the world and vanished up the rocks. Jackson knew there was something different about his face, and then he saw that there were two wrinkle-edged holes open where a man's nostrils would be if his upper lip was an Amsir beak. And he could hear air hissing in and out of them. The Amsir was upwind of him too, and, now that he noticed, Jackson could smell the old breath empt)dng itself out of his chest bubbles. "Come along," the Amsir said, motioning with his spear. 'We don't have time to waste. You have to walk to the tower." He pointed with one wingtip. By that, Jackson could tell he meant the Thom. "You'll have to just walk through the fields," the Amsir said as he sprang up into the air to circle watchfully around Jackson. "We don't make paths." T hey stopped once on tlir way toward the Amsir Thom, at the nearest of the stilt-legged houses. The house was made of something tough like horn but scratched up and very old, looking as if it had once held' a lot more particles of its bright yellow color. The Amsir sprang higher into the air and dung to one of the uprights with his claws and one hand. He reached up over his head to tug on the downswinging loop of the line that connected this house to the next one. Jackson could hear a bell clang inside. Clang, long pause, clang clang, short pause, then more clangs and spaced-out pauses. It got mixed up in Jackson's ears because as soon as the line had transmitted the Amsir's pulling-up to the next house, he could hear another bell in there echoing the sound. Then he could hear it again faintly from the house beyond that, and then very faintly off in the distance, always moving in the direction of the Thorn. The Amsir stopped pulling and waited. After a little while Jackson could hear a sound coming back along the ropes from the direction of the Thom. It was a short answer, whatever it was. The Amsir nodded in satisfaction and waved Jackson on with his spear. "All right, hurry up now," he cried down. "They are waiting for you." They were getting notice from other Amsirs now, too. Some of them popped out the doorways of the houses, jumping into the air and swooping to get a lookat Jackson. Others -- women and young kids, or anyhow acting the way women and young kids would have acted if they'd been Farmers -- clung to the edges of doorways. They began to make something of a procession, Jackson and all the Amsirs fluttering and swooping overhead. The Amsirs in the air called to each other and back to their families in the houses. And the families called back to them. It began to make a hell of a racket overhead, shadows and air-gusts down on the ground. Jackson thought of baffling them a little by walking under the houses instead of around them, but there was too much manure on the ground there, and he didn't try it twice. #V iTy name's Honor Red Jacksir he'd found crouching in a room of their Thorn. Crouching wasn't right -- this Amsir was more like leaning bent-legged with some of his weight on his wingtips. "They have a complex system of naming," said another old, skinnier Amsir who'd been called in by the first one, who Jackson guessed was their Eld. There were quite a few Amsirs in the room, counting the young one who'd brought him in, and the doctor-like one who was studying his elbow. The doctor-like one was studying his elbow in part by twisting the set of naked human arm bones he'd brought in with him. Jackson hoped he'd soon figure out just how he was going to tinker this thing up, and get around to doing his job. "'Honor' is his community status," the skinny one was still explaining. "It signifies that he lives exclusively by hunting our sort of creature. 'Red' means that in addition to having met the hunting reIF quirement, he had also performed the of his own 'kind. Jackson simply means that he is the son of an older creature of his own kind named Jack. For creatures in sparse circumstances they have a most amazing complex of rituals. I can't imagine how they distinguish between brothers of identical status -- I do not say they don't so distinguish. I'm sure they do." The Amsir Eld grunted at the skinny one. "Do not, I pray, give me any more labels for him. They may have to distinguish, but we don't have so many of them, ever, that we must. Tell me what he is, not what he stands for." "I am telling you. It's significant that he should be so obviously young; that he should carry the very fresh scars of combat with one of our own kind -- which means he brought one of our own kind to the last extremity -- and then the even more recent scars of combat with one of his own kind. This was a odd one even before he did the oddest thing of all and yielded voluntarily." The skinny Amsir looked as Jackson proudly, as if he'd produced him himself. "The odder the better," the Eld Amsir snapped. "We've had no luck with the usual run." "Precisely my point," the instructing Amsir said. "Then why didn't you make it to begin with?" "Pfah! I didi" "Only in hindsight. Get out." The Eld Amsir jerked his head toward the doorway, and the instructor shuffled out reluctantly. The Eld Amsir turned all his attention toward Jackson's end of the room. "You, Doctor -- get on with it." He came a few steps closer, and Jackson noticed something. He wasn't old. At least -- now that he was in some kind of better light coming in through the narrow Thorn window-slits -- the tattering of his lace, and the crumpled look of the wing Jackson could see best, were accounted for by damage. He was pretty badly scarred up, and discolored. He looked as if he'd been picked up and knocked hard against something rough, and had left big patches of his hide against that rough thing, and had had a lot of bones broken for it. But he threw his weight around like an Eld, and that bothered Jackson. He idn't like the idea of somebody being mean enough inside to be an Eld, but still not slowed down in his head very much. JacksonI I am above all I others here. No one of my kind of creature will tell you we have any time, so give me straight, fast answers. I am told you were ready to yield when that young one by the doorway found you. This is something new. Explain it." The doctor put one hand on Jackson's biceps, the other on his forearm and closed his beak on the lacefeathered end of the dart in Jackson's elbow. His claws made little purchase-hunting sounds on the cement flooring. Jackson figured it would 'be best to pay him no heed. "Didn't like it where I was," he said to the Eld. "Figured Fd go to where the lies were all about. Make up my own if I had to." "Pfu. Lies require life. You won't live." "Right up to the minute I die, I will. Oh, hell!" he hcrflered as the doctor jerked his head back while twisting his aim. The dart sucked out of Jackson's wound and hung for an instant in the doctor's beak until it was dropped. The doctor's hand closed as best it could above Jackson's elbow -- the fingers couldn't make it all the way around the flesh. Jadeson reached over to help him, eyes swfanming. "i think perh # qs you thought you coidd hunt us as you think we hunt you, the Eld said shrewdly. "I think perhaps you thought out that there was another world in which our sort of creature was prey. I think you thought you knew a way to get breathing stuff. You are young enough to have thought that because you were a little bit odd, and you frightened your own kind, you would frighten us too." Jackson just kept gripping hts arm, swaying with his eyes dosed. He did have room enough inside himself, though, to think how wonderful it was that everybody, an Amsir included, could think he knew everything just because he knew something. "Well, that's not how it is, creature," the Eld Amsir went right on, while the doctor unstoppered a stone bottle of something that lodced like water but burned like fire when he poured it over Jackson's running IF elbow, and then began winding a long, tight strip of shaved-thin hide around Jackson's left arm in a spiral from shoulder to wrist. "In some ways here, for you it is the way it is for our kind of creature with you. We cannot breathe the breathing stuff around your fields. Muck from that stuff you grow is in every breathful. We die -- you would say prettily -- with our first breath of it; our muscles knot so hard our bones break, our backbones snap; green fur fills our lungs. Or so the instructors say, from the times long ago when we still tried. "Haw! We die of breathing the air that blows across the stuff you eat. This is the stuff we eat." He pointed a wing at a heap of the blue, crumbly stuff from the fields. "That is rock-stuff. That is the food for creatures of wing and spirit. Can you eat rock? No others of your kind have been able to. You will die, prettily. Your stomach will sink in, your bones wiM show through the meat on you; toward the end, you will try to fang us and we will kick you away. You will bite yourself. You will try to get away back to your poison Thorn, and we will kick you back to work. You will live together perhaps thirty days, perhaps less. Only perhaps perhaps will you live any longer than that. And only perhaps perhaps perhaps will you ever be happy again before you die. It depends how quickly and how well you can do things; on how odd you are, and most of all on whether you are luckier than any other creature of your own kind that we have ever kad here. Now -- " he jerked his head toward's Jacksoa's bound-up aim. "How soon do you think you wiB be able to do work with that?" J ackson raised his arm experimentally. It throbbed when he did that; it felt like something made out of one solid stick of bone. "Thanks, Doc," he said to the doctor, who was standing off to one side watching him critically. Jackson tried to move his hand. It wouldn't work. He began knocking it against his thigh, trying to get some circulation into his fingers. "What kind of work?" he said to the Eld Amsir. "rU show you." The Eld gestured toward the doorway. "Turn toward your right after you leave the room." Jackson did that. The Eld Amsir and the young one who'd brought him in followed him. The doctor tried to go with him too, but the Eld just looked back over his shoulder and said, "Not you." The doctor turned around, quickly, and rustled toward the daylight Jackson had come in from. The way Jackson had been told to turn led him deeper into the Amsir Thorn. It was a narrow passageway, and at widely spaced distances there were lights glowing behind translucent panels in the metal ceiling overhead. It was like walking through something's ribs. Every so often they'd come to another oval ridge that ran completely around, up the walls and across the ceiling. There was always an open door folded neatly back against the wall. Halfway between any two of these doors, there'd be another one like it, but set directly into the wall at Jackson's left side. These were closed; sometimes there was light behind them, coming through a little bull's-eye window, and sometimes there wasn't. Sometimes there were particular sounds of machines going; sometimes there was just the general sound of the Thorn, which was louder and healthier than the sounds of Jackson's Thorn. But not one of these doors leading to the inside told him anything, except what he already knew, that this Thorn was tougher than his own. The passageway curved this way and that; sometimes it turned sharply. From the sound growing louder and louder, and then beginning to taper off behind him at more or less the same rate, Jackson guessed it was some kind of path they'd set up for getting through the Thorn to the other side without having to go around it. Three times, they came to ladders taking up half the passageway's space and going up to round doors set in the ceiling. Two of them were closed, and the metal rungs of the ladders were dull and softly smooth. At the top of the third ladder was a round black opening, and the ladder was scratched up. There were bright, polished places on the wall, going up beside the ladder, where Amsir wings had dragged against it a lot of times. He tried to imagine an Amsir working his way up one of these ladders, just as he could see how they had to inch and shuffle to get around the ladders and keep going down the passageway. It wasn't IF handy for them, this place. Well, it wasn't handy for him either, but it was what they had. T hey Came to another room that opened on the outside. It had a couple more Amsirs in it, including the instructor one who'd been nagging the Eld about him in the Eld's room. "Are you going to show it to him now?" this one asked the Eld. "He won't get any stronger." "No -- or at least, none of them have. But you know, they do have this ability to store energy. Amazing, really, when you think of it. At least, we've never observed any of them carrying nourishment out into the desert with them, and we know they've certainly been able to function unfed for significant periods of time here. Whereas we're hard put to it to find individuals with the endurance to omit feeding for as much as a day -- " " -- What the learned one who is well above me refers to," broke in the young Amsir who'd been hanging around the instructor, "is the surmise that perhaps these creatures are trading time for energy. They may be oing into some sort of survival mode which permits a stretch-out of energy consumption by maintaining a low level of physical and mental activity. As you know from the learned one's witnessed discourses, he would very much like to attempt stimulating one of these creatures, as for example with pain, on the supposition that this may force it to re-enter a more energetic mode, of shorter duration, perhaps, but much more productive of over-all results... " Nobody listed with interest. Not even the instructor Amsir, who was doing his best not to pay attention, or at least look as if he were someplace else entirely. He looked at the walls, the floor and the ceiling while the novice instructor's voice got lower and lower. Jackson didn't want to hear about pain, whatever a mode was. The young Amsir who'd brought him in was looking at the instructor novice the way a Honor would look at a Farmer his own age, except he wasn't measuring him for the kill. Finally, the Eld Amsir said, "Shut up," gently, and the novice instructor did. Ivooking at Jackson, the Eld Amsir asked: "Do the young practice as much, where you come from?" "Only honning. The farming takes care of itself. The Thorn spreads the water in the fields, and the plows run no matter what you try to do." "Well, we are better than you," the Eld said matter-of-factiy. "Both of you shut up," he added toward the instructor, who'd begun to open his beak. "This one's enough experiment for me just the way he is." He nudged Jackson toward the door with the tip of one wing. "Step out and look at that," he said. Jackson found himself looking from the doorway at something a lot like a small Thorn. It tapered up into the air, maybe a dozen times as high as a man. But it was spikier, and it had other spikes curving down -- it rested on three of them. It had openings, too, like throats yawning down toward the ground. It was made of the same kind of metal as the Thorn; in that shape, though, spikey and open-mouthed, it looked mean and twisty. "What is that?" Jackson asked. "It's the Thorn Thing. It's been here since the beginning of the World. You see that?" The Hd pointed up the side of the thing. There was a ladder coming down to within say three feet of the ground. Jackson squinted; up at the head of the ladder was something that looked like another one of the closed doorways, but had no familiar circular handle to turn. It was just an oval crack in the metal. Turning his head, and shifting his feet back and forth, Jackson could see glints from scratches up there; shallow ones, no more than futile scrapes. #That's a doorway, isn't it?" A the Eld Amsir said. "Looks like one," Jackson agreed. "Don't you know?" "It says it's a doorway. It has a voice, and the instructor tells me that's what it says." The Eld cast a glance at the instructor. "There isn't anyone who will tell me it says something else." "I've spent a long time deciding that's what it says," the instructing Amsir said vehemently. "I have given witnessed discourses -- " "Shut up," the Eld Amsir said. Jackson looked the Thom Thing up and down again. There wasn't anything now left to notice, except maybe for the burnt, black splash on the ground right under it, that the spikey legs rested in. That looked a little wrong -- as if somebody had been building fires under it not too long ago; not as long ago as the beginning of time. Otherwise, it just sat there. He certainly didn't hear any voice saying, "I'm a door." "What do you want me to do with this thing?" "Climb the ladder and op the door," the Eld Amsir said. "Just that?" "Pw Almost every one of our kind of creature who's tried it has been killed. Some of us have only been hurt very much and made very angry. Every one of your kind of creature who's tried it has starved to death." xm O h, haw, Jackson thought, feeling weak and disgusted. He looked up toward the door in the Thorn Thing again and then at the ladder. It seemed to him that a boneeary, one-armed, light-headed, sleepless, foodless, hopeless mai! could get up it all right. Considering eveiything. He looked at the door again. But the damn thing didn't have any handle. Well. He got himself moving and sauntered toward the ladder. Standing there right under the Thom Thing he could see two things; one, that it was pretty big, the other that it had been there long enough for the three spikes it rested on to have become very nearly a part of the soil. It didn't look as if it had been set down on the ground, and the ground didn't look as if it had been piled around it. It had die look that walls of huts at the home IF I horn had -- or that the Thorn itself had, come to that -- of having poked up from underneath, and of the ground bulging just a little bit at the torn edges, as if maybe a dozen dozen years from now it would finish reacting to this growth and would finally lie flat. He put his good aim on the ladder two or three rungs up and gave a little tug followed by a harder one. There was no give in it. He could see that it came out of the side of the Thorn Thing just below the doorway. And he could see a sort of hinge at each rung, as if the ladder were made to fold and be pulled up inside a small space somewhere up there. Or could be kicked out and let hang this way when needed. But if those were hinges they had no give in them. He put his ear to the ladder, which was as warm as his own flesh, and he could hear things humming. Well, anything that could talk had to have a heart. He looked over at the bunch of Amsirs. All of them were watching him with considerable interest. There were other Amsirs gathering overhead -- passers-by and just loungers who'd noticed that a new creature of his kind was about to try for the talking door. One of them swooped down and came no more than his own height over Jackson's head. "Haa, damp thing! Oimb! Climb!" He hoved up at the level of the door and made scrabbling, fake-desperate grabs toward it for as long as he could hold his attitude, then fell away, got his wings straightened back around the way he wanted them, and buffeted up Into the air again. Jackson noticed that it woidd have been a much better piece of mockery if the Amsir had dared to have actually touched the door. Jackson took a little jump into the air, grabbed the ladder, got one foot up and began to climb. I t was peculiar, the way the metal felt neither cold nor hot. Although he had to do all the work with one arm and his legs, it was nothing like when he'd had to slip and slide down the rim into this place. He felt pretty good, as a matter of fact. There were worse things a man could do with, his time than climb this ladder. He wished he knew what the Thorn Thing was, that made a man feel this good. Pretty soon he was up high enough to look down at the Amsirs on the ground. They were all watching him, their faces turning up gridiwork-like to follow his dimb as if each of their bodies were a Thorn and he was the sun. Up to now, the ladder had beeo hanging reasonably far away from the side of the Thom Thing. But the hier he got, the closer the bulges of the Thorn Thing got to the straight-hanging ladder. Now his eyes were only inches away ftom the side of the thing itsdf, and he could see something that didn't dieer him up, which were grease-smears shimmering in the light, from all the hands that had mbbed here before him as he stopped to lean his weight on the comfortable, neith warm nor cold humming metal. Oh, pfu, he said to himself and kept climbing, until finally he was at the top of the ladder. Here there was a little open door, not too thick, but not too thin, and strongly hinged, positioned under the slit so as to protect it against anything being thrown up from below. When the ladder was pulled up, probably the little door closed behind it and left no more seam than the door above it did. When his eyes came level with it, he noticed that there was a broken-off, fleshless fingerbone trapped in the crack between the little open door and the main side of the Thorn Thing, and at the' same time a voice over his head growled hollowly: "Ouwwtenshowmnnn. Dhayss dwuuhrr uhhpnnss owwnnuhhli t umm-nn pehrrsowwnnuhhll. Awwll ouwwthrr uhluff-ffouwrrms wuull be dhaysstroydd wieyethouyut dhaysscriyeshunn." Jackson looked up at the door. Nothing was happening. The door began to say again: "Ouwwtenshownnn. Dhayss dwuuhrr..." Jackson climbed back down the ladder. "Shakes you, doesn't it?" said the Eld Amsir, at the foot of the ladder. "It sounds like somebody's stomach," Jackson said. He looked over at the instructor Amsir. "'What did he say it says?" The Eld followed his glance and raised a wingtip. The instructing Amsir came forward, brimming over and ready to spill. "Do not be misled by the growling, rumbling sounds. I have said them to myself at any number of speeds and pitches of voice, and I have had many below me say them to me in various modes according to my instructions. I have had witnesses in great number judge the various effects and reach agreement among themselves as to the meaning of this sort of speech. It is the consensus," he said with proud conclusiveness, "that what the door is giving is first a sound much like our word 'display alertness.' This is followed by a sound which is very definitely the word 'this'. Then there is a sound very much like our word for 'hatch' -- " "Shut up," Jackson said to the shock of some and the amusement of the Eld. "You mean that's just a funny way of talking straight." T he instructing Amsir looked at Jackson almost tearfully, as if it were a farmer whose daughter had just gone off laughing with a Honor. "That's right." "I want to get this dear. It talks like we do but it has a funny mouth, is that it?" "That seems to be the case," the Eld Amsir said. "Well, now look," Jackson said. "That's a big thing. There's your kind of creature and my kind of creature, and now all of a sudden there's a third kind. And if it's all connected up with things that have been here since the beginning of time, then that thing talks for whatever made time begin." "Listen, you stinking, infidel, damp thing, you keep your mouth off theology!" The young Amsir who'd brought him in had been hanging around all this time without saying two words or even boo. It made Jackson twang a little inside for having him come on this strong all of a sudden. But he rolled his eyes over at the youngster with enough cool to make it stick. "Now what are you talking about?" "Don't pick at it," the Eld Amsir said to the young warrior with what had to be the fond substitute for 'shut up!' "It's just an ignorant creature. Listen, I think things are pretty well controlled here -- you can go home and tell your flock you are well above many for this day's work. Go home. Now." The young Amsir jumped for the air. "I am rewarded," he said thankfully to the Eld, before he flung himself straight up like a thrown dart aimed at the sun, shouting at the top of his lungs, "I am above many! I am above many!" High, high up, he flung himself out flat and went tearing down at a shallow angle for a particular one of the stilt-legged houses, still shouting. Jackson could hear his voice shrinking. The Eld Amsir looked at Jackson and shrugged, "You've got one or two things to watch out for besides the condition of your stomach. One of them is the fact that if you nudge superstition hard enough around here, you won't live to starve. And there's not much that anyone educated will be able to do to help you." VV tion going here," the instructor Amsir explained. "You see, we know there are two Thoms, two worlds, two kinds of creatures, and we know they were all made at the same time. One must be good, and the other must be evil. But you see, at that point we leave rational logic behind, and begin trespassing on matters of faith. A great prophet, one of whose last discourses I myself was privileged to witness as a very young being, teUs us that since we must make evalutions of our Thom's worth on faith, then it is just as logical to believe that each individual makes either good or evil of his own place. But, for this the great prophet was flung from a great height with his wings broken, by those who avoid such complicated patterns of ethics through the expedient of knowing that it is our place that is good and yours that is evil, and that they are therefore good for living in the good place. "We here are all reasonable creatures -- granting you a certain shrewdness -- and we know it is probably only an accident of creation that your kind of creature and mine cannot live in each other's places. But you see how difficult it can be to perceive this if one is of a tender and uncultured turn of mind." "You can see, too," the Eld Amsir added, "how brave that young fellow was, being as emotional as he round the fringes of your world for something as imutterably evU and repulsive as yourself to come into contact with him." The Eld and the instructor both looked at Jackson es if they had just told him something of considerable meaning and exped him to react. IF Jackson just looked back at them. For one thing, he didn't even know what "theology" meant. It was the apprentice instructor who said: "Look at himl He shows no sign of understanding! I propose the thesis they have no concept of original evil!" "And are therefore innocent?" the instructor cried furiously. "Shut up! Sut up!" He waved his wings spastically, hopping from one foot to the other, raising dust. He was pretty old stidf, and didn't impress Jackson much, but the apprentice instructor quailed and shuffled away, his head bowed. He acted as if he'd fallen out while running 'round the Thom behind Red Filson -- tireless, wise, dead Red Filson. What makes you dumb, Jackson decided, is what scares you. #Xou see," the Eld Amsir said : JL to Jackson, "we must discover whatever is within the Thom Thing. We feel this wkh different degrees of involvement." He glanced aside at the instructor, who was busUy running his fingertips through his lace and geUing it untangled. "Feel it for different reasons that are very close to our emotions. But k's our only due to the nature and purpose of Creation. We've studied the Thorn for generations, of course, but it's only a machine, and all we learn from it is how its parts move and in which of those parts it seems to be wearing out. It does seem to be wearing out in a numb of parts. Now the Thom Thing, on the other hand, talks. Perhaps there is something inside that can be talked to." "In what kind of talk?" Jackson asked. The Eld Amsir nodded. "You're right. Nobody is saying there won't be problems. Nobody is saying the answer will be easy to find. But we've got to begin. Things are not getting any better, so they can only get worse. We can't just let them go. Oh, there are many of our kind of creatures w'ho would never care until the last moment when the sky fell down upon them. All they care about is getting their food to eat, water to drink, sky to fly in. And there have always been these things, so they can't imagine that they could end. But we know the Thorn can end. So these things can end -- there can be a last day for this world. There are some of us who cannot live content, knowing this, even though we may also know that we would 'be able to die content long before it becomes necessary to really have the answers we seek. There is a certain quirk -- a restlessness -- in certain minds, which does not seem to understand the passage of time. What will be real some day to everyone is very real to them now." Jackson listened politely. "Now, I bear you no malice, boy. If we had food here that you could eat, I would give it to you, provided. Provided I thought you would work just as hard at opening the door as you would if you were starving. Others may bear you malice, but I don't. I understand that we are really very much alike, inside. And I like the idea of your beio an odd one. I am an odd one too, among my own kind." He pointed toward the Thorn Thing. "That's where I was mangled. "I wouldn't leave it alone. I tried to crawl up one of its throats, but I was clumsy. As all of us who do not need the ground all our lives are clumsy when we crawl. My clumsiness saved my life. I fell to the ground. When the fire burst forth from the throat to clear me out, I was already crawling away. But still it caught me and threw me a good distance. Haw, they called it the reward of foolishness. It was then, as I lay there screaming, and they gathered around laughing and exclaiming, that I understood I must either rule them or not live here any longer. So I owe much to the Thorn Thing. I owe much to oddness. And I tell you, odd one, that you had better owe much to it too. I bear you no malice -- I said that -- but I will do whatever needs to be done to force the utmost from you. I will remind you, if you haven't thought of it yourself already, that it treats your kind of creatures better than it treats my kind. My kind cannot climb the ladder to its top, nor touch the door. Something goes into my kind of creature from the door, flattens its insides, boils it eyes, throws it dead instantly earthward. Your kind of creature it merely permits to starve while attempting to crawl through the throats, or while picking at the door seam. Therefore, what is inside will probably not treat you like an enemy. It may help you. Why not believe that there is your sort of food in there? What is a friend for, if not to offer hospitality? And I think you will do well. You are very much like me, and if my body were like yours, I think I would do weW." Jackson said; "You know, I think you're rit. There is somebody who lives in our Thorn that I think you could spend a lot of happy hours with. Just talking. Comparing problems, sharing thoughts." But the Amsir Eld didn't seem to understand. He looked at Jackson the way Jackson looked at people who used words like theology. Well, Jackson decided, it was possible to talk, talk, talk about how alike they were under the skin, but if you had become the Eld of the Amsirs, you couldn't really think there was anyone else who'd made out as wonderful as you. The way, when I was a kid, Jackson thought, I thought there was only one world, and the only thing in it was honning. He looked around at the Amsirs, the blue food he couldn't eat, the stilty houses, the sky filled with flapping creatures and the Thorn Thing. And I wish, he thought, I wish I was still like those farmers and Honors back there who still think that's all there is. He felt pretty tired. "I'm going to get some sleep," he said, lay down, curled up, and closed his eyes around the throbbing of his arm. W ow, his arm hurt. He scraped his eyes open and looked down at it. The flesh of his hand was IF swollen up in a ring around the lower edge of the wrapping. When he reached up to touch his shoulder he found another bulge like it there. He rolled over in the dust near the Thorn Thing, rubbing his hair in his face, pawing his open mouth, licking his teeth. He saw it was morning again. His skin felt dry. He couldn't get his face to work. He sat up, and saw the Amsir Eld sitting there. "Huh! Been guarding my rest?" "Mine, too. I've been wondering what the effect of long rest on your energy supply would be. You don't seem to have become more alert." Jackson moved. He had it pretty well planned; the next step was to get around behind the Eld, hook his arms under the Eld's wings, using the left arm for whatever good it might do, and get his right thumb into the front of the Eld's throat, while his fingers curled around the back of the Amsir's neck. From there, he figured, he could start setting himself up a little more comfortably around here. He didn't know exactly what the Amsirs could really do to get him something to eat, for instance, but there was a whole world here, full of brave, strong, big-mouthed people, who were used to doing what the Eld told them. And if the Eld had to do what Jackson told him... But the Eld had had the thought to tie Jackson's ankles together loosely while he slept, and Jackson fell down. The Eld grinned. "In a few days, it won't be necessary to do that, or anything like it. Then you'll be waking up with only one thougiht. If need be, I may have to remind you that breakfast is inside the Thorn Thing. Then you will turn to it with a will." Lying there, thinking all kinds of top-of-the-head, fast-answer thoughts, Jackson said, "I believe a lot more in you for breakfast than in any instructor talk about what's inside that thing." The Eld said: "It's truly amazing what you'll believe in a few days. It's not a pretty condition. I think you will disgust yourself. I don't think you would like that any more than I would. We have let you sleep. Here is water," he said, setting out one of those sealed hide bubbles of theirs. "That we can give you. We won't be shocked -- I won't be shocked -- if you smear some on skin. Does your arm hurt?" "Thanks." The Amsir nodded off over Jackson's shoulder, and the doctor came up again. He unwrapped the bandages while Jackson drank and stared off at the rim of the world through the legs of the houses. When the doctor was done putting fresh wrappings on the arm and was restoppering his bottle of liquid he said: "Your arm's not healing. I think you'll soon lose it." "I knew that yesterday," Jackson said. He tossed the water bubble down. "There's something you can work on me with," he said to the Eld. "Maybe there is something in the Thorn Thing that'll fix my arm. Some kind of real doctor. Why not? If there's a feast for me in there, there might as well be healing, too." T he Eld was untying the ends of the thongs between Jackson's ankles; his wings got in his way a little, and he was clumsy about it, but he got them off anyhow. There were a couple of spearmen staading around, Jackson noticed now. It hadn't mattered ibefore if they were there or not, because when you make that kind of play there's no point counting odds. But he had shot that one, and he noticed them now. He held still. "And if not healing, why not anything else, too?" the Eld was saying as he worked. "Indeed, why not? Why not females, why not any other pleasures that migjit appeal to you? Why not weapons? And you thought of weapons in there, didn't you?" The Eld looked up shrewdly, his eyes twinkling. "Oh, have you not!" Jackson shrugged. The Eld shrugged too. "And why not? Why not, if you crack open a mystery from the beginning of time, why not all lore, all striving, all rewards for the shrewd and the odd? Pfu! Let me show you the answer to that." He gestured with a wingtip, and a couple of spearmen hustled something forward from behind the Thorn. The creature smiled winningly at Jackson. It smiled at the Spearmen, it smiled at the Amsir Eld, and at the instructor, and in fact at everything. Jackson had never seen an)Tthing so easily pleased. It was a shame it was so unpleasant. It stood just about his size, and it walked -- at a guess -- like a man. But it was a little hard to tell, because it sagged so much. It was hke dough, and the color of dough. There was no part of it whose skin did not hang down in sloughy folds, except at the very top of its head, where little fleshy pseudopods spangled half-erect about where an Amsir's crest of lace began. The rest of it hung on its frame of bones and meat, half-closed its eyes, drooped little beginnings of ears, made a flabby ruff around the neck, hung in a brief, scalloped cape around its chest and upper arms, made another fold below its waist, and fell on down its legs. It was, if it was dough, some Amsir housewife's too-watery bit of kneading from which an Amsir pastry might have been baked. All this delighted it. Its soft flapfingered hands -- the little finger rather longer than the others -- twiddled constantly at its thighs, its shoulders, and its face. It seemed to love playing with its mouth. How it smiled was by stretching its lips upward with its forefingers quite frequently. T he Amsir Eld looked crookedly toward Jackson. Jackson obliged: "All right -- what is it?" "Oh, this is Ahmuls," he said. "He's a kind of creature tom to us now and then. He happens to be one of the few who does noc die while still very, very young. Well, his mother was a foolish woman and fond of him. And I am grateful to her now. You'll see why. Ahmuls is very lovable," the Eld said as the creature shuffled up to him, still twiddling. The Eld reached out and lightly stroked Ahmul's cheek. IF "Good morning, Ahmuls; I love you." "Goodmorning, I love yow," Ahmuls said rather clearly. He hummed some sort of contented sound and stroked the Eld's cheek. "Ahmuls -- this is Jackson," the Eld said, pointing. "Jackson... " Ahmuls said reflectively, opening his eyes with thumbs and forefingers as he focused his attention. "Ahmuls, I want you to show Jackson something." "Oh, yes." "Very good," the Eld said, stroking Ahmul's face again. "Ahmuls, hit that for me." The Eld pointed to the leg of a house a dozen running strides distant. The Eld threw in an aside to Jackson: "Like many odd ones, Ahmuls has had to be special, or go under. He's very proud of thing's he's taught himself to do. They show he loves himself, and since we all love ourselves so very much, when we do something for that sort of love we're superb. Ahmuls... ?" The Eld looked questioningly at Ahmuls. Ahmuls turned to one of the spearmen, floppy-fleshed arm extended. He said neither please nor I love you. The Eldish sudden uplift of his arm did all the necessary asking for him. The spearman didn't seem offended. He gave his javelin a bit of a toss, and Ahmuls caught it in mid-air, thumb down, with his arm crossed in front of him, still turned three quarters away from his target. The next Jackson saw him clearly he was already stepping forward, his muscles already relaxing again, and the javelin was going through the air in an absolutely straight line, whirring. Jackson had never seen anything thrown that didn't curve down toward the end of its path. A dozen dozen running strides away the head of the javelin went into the house-leg with a klat!, a whip of its metal body, then a crack as the shaft snapped away from the immovably dug-in head. Up above indignant voices boiled up, and heads and bodies showed at the doorway. Then a voice came faintly down, pleased as well as scandalized: "Oh, Ahmuls!" And Jackson had been shown what love could do. T he Eld said: "I love Ahmuls," grinned and grinned. Pfu! thought Jackson. The Eld stepped forward and took gentle hold of Ahmul's arm. "Watch, Jackson." He pulled the flesh tight, for just a moment, and there was the outline of the human arm trapped under the uncooked Amsir skin. "You see," the Eld went on to Jackson, "this is also why I love Ahmuls. But let me show you #iAt too. Ahmuls -- climb the ladder. Show Jackson you can climb the ladder, Ahmuls." Ahmuls held his eyes open again, hunted, found the two things he had to know about. "Jackson," he discovered. "Ladder." Satisfied, he was beside the Thorn Thing wi two strides, halfway up the ladder with one jump, and at its head immediately thereafter. He stood with his feet curled over the top rung, and the only thing that kept him from falling backwards was tkat he leaned forward with his arms outstretched, oozed tight against the curving surface, and wkile the door growled he rubbed his face against the metal and moved his flatteued palms in little carressing motions. Jackson raised an ear with a twist of his neck that reminded him about shoulders, and could hear Ahmuls very faintly: "I love you." "Come down now, Ahmuls," the Eld cried. "So you see," he said to Jackson, "the door thinks Ahmuis is your kind of creature, for it doesn't kill him. True, Ahmuls is very stupid, and so there's no hope of his ever opening the door. But that's good for you, when you thmk of it, for if Ahmuls weren't stupid, I wouldn't need you. An#ay, Ahmuls goes in with you, if you open the door. He knows enough to hit you if you pick up a weapon. He's been told all about it many times in the past. He will imderstand something if it's said to him a few times. After that, he is too gluey inside to forget it." Ahmuls had come back to the Eld. They changed touches again. "Love you," both of them said. Jackson studied them. The Eld said to Jackson: "There is only one way you can keep Ahmuls from waiting just below you on the ladder while you try the door and then following you in. That would be to cripple him now. I still need you, and I have no replacement for Ahmuls. You wouldn't be punished, and you'd have a much better diance once you got inside. So I'm perfectly right now." Jackson walked over to Ahmuls. He reached out with his good hand, while shaking his head at the Eld. Then he looked straight into Ahmul's slitty eyes as he fondled the damp thing's cheek. "I love you." But Ahmuls wasn't having any. He caught Jackson's hand with something that felt like a fivefingered machine closing on it inside a cloak of blanketing. Somewhere inside all there, Ahmul's sense of touch got a message through to his head. "No good," he said, rubbing Jackson's hand before throwing the arm aside. "Soft." XV t was hot, up at the top of the ladder with Ahmul's humming happily a few rungs below him. Jackson ran his hands over the door again, and again found that it was exactly like any other door, except that it didn't have a handle, smd it talked. He had gotten used to the growling. There were those scratches around the edges, where various hands before ihim had tried to pry. One or two of the scratches actually went maybe a fingernailthickness deeper an the surface. The Eld had told him they were places where everybody sooner or later came to scratching in old scratches, trying to just plain wear through. The Eld's best estimate was that the deepest scratch had taken about a dozen men, working day and night, IF for maybe two weeks apiece. And it was as thick as two hands. But it was possible, Jackson thought, that a week or ten days from now he might start telling himself maybe this door wasn't that thick -- maybe it was only a finger thick. Probably, the last two or three days he could hang on up there, he'd be telling himself he'd wear through any minute now. The door was easy to get mad at. It was just another oval seam in the metal. A sensible man with other things to do would tell himself inside of an hour that it wasn't a door -- it was some kind of fake wrinkle in the metal. He could climb back down the ladder and never try it again. There wasn't even a place for the voice to come out. It was the first time Jackson had ever met anything that could talk but didn't have a mouth. He put his ear up to the door, trying to hear the heartbeat he could feel through his fingertips, but when he did that the voice went right through his head, and he couldn't hear anything but it. He leaned out as far as he dared and looked it up and down again, and then he said: "Hey, Ahmuls, let's go down." "Down?" "Down. Let's go down "You're stupid," Ahmuls said, but he moved obligingly down, one rung at a time, making sure Jackson came with him. The instructing Amsir, who'd beep keeping a sharp eye on this public tooling, came hurrying up to them. "What's wrong?" Ahmuls grinned and pointed at Jackson. "He came down. He's stupid." "I've learned all I'm going to, up there," Jackson said. "Where else are you going to learn anything?" "That's the real problem, I guess -- answering that one. But I've learned everything I'm going to up there," Jackson said, and walked toward the Thorn. "Don't you leave me!" Ahmuls cried, taking Jackson's good arm. "It's all right, Ahmuls dear," the instructing Amsir said hastily. "You wait here. I'll bring him back. He'll be with me." "All right. But you bring him back," Ahmuls said dubiously. "at are you going to do?" the instructing Amsir said, rustling along beside Jackson, his eyes glittering with intense curiosity. "Study door," Jackson said. He jerked his thumb toward the Tlwm. "Quite a few of them in there." H e stood in doorways all that afternoon, bracing his feet and elbows inside the oval door jambs as best he could, trying to understand how it felt to be that thick, that tall, that flat" He growled grudgingly out of various Amsirs' way whenever they came shuffling and scraping up itie halls through him. He swung himself flat against a wall and stood that way for a long time, his fingers and toes curved around the jamb, being hinges. By the end of the afternoon, he had a pretty good idea inside his head of how a door would think, and act, and feel about people. But always, only a door that had a handle ough its middle. By evening, the little hollow place that he put through his middle where the handle's works would be had grown up into something that he had to admit resembled the faint beginning of hunger in a man who let himself think about food. That was the only gain he had to show for the day, and he had to admit it was a loss. Toward evening, Ahmuls came looking for him, unhappy because the instructor didn't love him or he would have brought Jackson back, imhappy because Jackson still wouldn't go up the ladder, unhappy becatise the sun was going down and it was time to go back, to sleep, to wait for morning and the ladder, and Jackson again, and meanwhile not be loved. I B the morning, he climbed back up the ladder. Ahmuls patted him approvingly on the shoulder as he stood aside to let him by. "Now you're smart," he said. "Glad to hear it," Jackson said. The doctor had re-done his arm again, with the usual results. Jackson could feel that arm all the way up his neck and into the inside of his head, this fine morning in the bright sky with all the happy Amsirs flopping in the sky above him, and Ahmuls slurring and slapping up the ladder below him. When he got to the top, he sat down facing outward, leaning his back and the back of his head against the metal, his feet resting on the next rung down, letting himsdf warm up. He kept him arms crossed over him. He began to talk casually. "You know, door, I spent a long time last night trying to be like you." The door said: "Ouwwtenshownn. Dhayss dwuuhrr uhhpnns owwnnuhhli..." and so forth. "Didn't do any good. Man can't be a door. Can pretend to be a door -- can tell himself he is a door. But a man doesn't have hinges. Anyway he doesn't have the kind of hinges a door does. And a man can't be a door like you at all, because a man has handles." "... dhaysstroyd wieyethouyut dhayaysscriyeshunn," the door said. "Then I got to thinking to myself, door," Jackson said, paying no mind as the door began again. "Heyl You talkin' to me?" Ahmuls said peevishly from below. "No." "AwwU ouwwthrr uhluff-fouwrrmus..." said the door. "I got to thinking that if a maa can't be a door, can a door be a man? And I guess we both know the answer to that. You're stupid, door. You tell the difference between my kind of creature and a Amsir; you're supposed to keep Amsirs out, so it figures maybe you're supposed to let men in. I mean, even the instructor has got that much figured out. And their Eld has it figured out, so that clinches it. But you won't let me in. You don't knock me off, but you don't let me in. You don't knock Ahmuls off either, and that's a mistake. No, no two ways about it -- you're stupid. So I got to thinking, how do I get through a stupid door that thinks it's a man." IF... wieyethouyut dhaysscriyeshunn." J ackson turned his head in a way that looked pretty casual and idle, and would have been casual in somebody whose arm didn't hurt all the way into his head. Ahmuls was right diere, looking up at him. Over the many times Ahmuls had had tihis kind of duty, he'd learned that if he hung his head back and twisted his shoulders so diat he was looking upside-down, he didn't have to hold the loose skin away from his eyes. "Love you," Jackson said. "You're awful," Ahmuls answered decisively. "Well, I was saying, door -- you're stupid. But you've got ears, and you can feel, and I guess you can see, too, even if you can't talk straight." "... t umm-nn pehrrsowwnnuhll." "Now the thing is, door, if you won't let me in, and you won't let Amsirs in, what did you ever let out that you won't let back in? It would have to be something that talks like you, but looks like me, wouldn't it, door? Or, anyway," Jackson said, listening to Ahmids hum through the sound of the door going on talking, "anyway, something soft. "But you've been here since the beginning of time. What happened to what you let out, way back then? Door, I figure somewhere you've got a picture of what you should let bade in. A pidure at talks, I guess, but I figure thats what you've got to have. Something to let you , v; compare. Something you're much too stupid to forget." It was getting hot again. Jackson wiped his face. The instructing Amsir was getting all excited down below. He cupped his beak in his hand and shouted up: "Ahmuls! What's he doing up there?" "Nothing." "Then why has the door stopped growling?" Jackson took a long, deep breath. He turned around and looked at the door, holding on tight with his good hand and with the best he could do with his bad one. It would be no time to fall off now. "You dumb door!" he said. "This is only the first thing I thought of to try." Down below him, Ahmuls was shifting his grip too, forgetting he couldn't see as well right side up as he could upside down. "All right, door -- if I've got you started thinking again after all this time -- all right, if you do listen better than you talk, tln you figure what you let out would talk hke by now. It can't be that hard!" he said, suddenly irritated. "If that instructor can figure out some of your words, something smart enough to tell the difference between a Amsir and a man should be able to figure out my words. Open up, you dumb bastardr he cried. The beat of the Thorn Thing's heart changed. Ihere was a creak, a suck, a pop. The door jumped back the thickness of a finger and zipped sideways, into a place made for it to slide into in the skin of the Thorn Thing. IF J ackson scrambled around on the ladder. Down below him the Eld was a little slow getting things organized. There were spearmen throwing, but they hadn't really gotten themselves set. The whole thing was happening too fast for everybody. Jackson hadn't really figmed the door would make sense out of what he said, and for all of his talking, the Eld hadn't figured Jackson would get the door open this fast, if ever. So all that quiet, unspoken thinking of the Eld's about how once the door was open he didn't need Jackson at all, as long as he had Ahmuls or another creatures of Jackson's kind who maybe wouldn't be as tricky -- well, all that thinking was shot, too, because Jackson was in through the door, and into a dark laughing and cursing, before the spearmen got into the air. In fact, the only one who stayed cool was Ahmuls. He'd been told what to do a lot of times, and now he did it. He flipped hdf in through the door and crouched rippling next to where Jackson was lying on the floor. "I come, too," he said, happy to be useful. Jackson let out his breath as the first couple of spears came buzzing in through the doorway from nervous, fluttering spearmen and bounced off the walls. "I guess you do." There was this other door at the end of the little room. There was a red, bright lamp shining over it. Then the outside door closed, the light went out, yellow light came on from overhead in the little room, and the inside door opened. Past it were all kinds of things that looked like what Jackson guessed was Thom machinery. Through the metal around them, he and Ahmuls both could hear the outside door hollering as spears hit. Its voice was too fast, too high. It sounded as panicky as everybody. "Attention! Attentioal This system has now been adjusted to accelerated speech mode. lUa door opens only to human personneL AU other life forms will be desttoyed without discretion. An intdligible warning has been given." "It was about time," Jackson smd. A few copies of hard-bound first editions of stories from Galaxy, mint condition, brand-new. Some are now out of print and hard to find -- but take your pick while they lasti The Space Merchants by Frederlk Pohl  C. M. Kombluth. originally published in Galaxy as Gravy Planet. Hard-cover first edition, #. The Demolished Man by Alfred Bester, one of the most talked-about sf novels of aU time. #. The World That Couldn't Be and others from Galaxy, stories by de Camp, Simalc, Knight, etc., edited by H. L. Gold. #. Order by letter, endosing check or money order for amount indicoted. Postage pold. rry, orders from U.S. only...  m IF  Short Story They brought Earth a message -- not to preach it, but to act on it at the cost of their lives! #-Tlie orange-blood sunset over ' A CoUabirrian," thought Father Hume, and the sounds of words inside his head made a pleasing rhythm. For a moment they made him forget even the heat. For a moment. Then it was back again. To be precise, the summer heat in the Northern Territory of Australia never quite left. One could divert oneself with an urgent piece of work, or with worry, but only momentarily. Then the heat seeped back into one again with the merciless squandering the sun here could afford. Sighing, Father Hume lowered himself into a cane chair, his eyes looking emptily at the back of beyond. By heaven, it was the back of beyond. He was sitting on the verandah of his house, which was situated right on the outskirts of the township and gave an uninterrupted view of soil wounding itself with mercy-begging cracks, with trees jutting forlornly from the corpse-looking ground. Fom half the trees smoke belched as they burned hollow from the self-combustion that created, seemingly, never ending heat. It was hell. "Forgive me, my Lord," added Father Hume numbly in his mind, "but maybe the old artists were right. And this certainly is like it." The heat was hard even on native Australians. For Father Hume, who had only left dewy Devon less than two years ago, it was like... He shied away from the thought. "What should I be doing then tonight?" he asked himself. Then immediately he dosed his eyes, pushed the question back and mournfully decided just to exist until the night came, with its diimmery relief of cool breezes. Anything under # degrees was considered cool. Afterwards, Father Hume could have sworn that he merely closed his eyes for a moment, no longer than was necessary to kill the concept of doing something more than sitting. But, be it a moment or a few minutes, he should have seen the stranger approaching. After all, from the buckled edges of his verandah looking in a straight line ahead, even if there were two or three blackened tree stumps in the way, he could see miles in most directions, because there simply wasn't anything. Except heat. This time, though, there was a man. H e was tall and very thin. He walked towards Father Hume with... For a moment the good f ather disregarded the way the stranger looked, he was so taken up with the way the man was moving. Dignity. Maybe it was the way he carried his shoulders, straight. Or the gentle solidarity of his arms, swinging 'beside his body. Or the way his long and thin legs carried him. There was no heat for the stranger, heat which exhausts a man by just being. He made good speed too. By the time Father Hume got to his feet, the man was walking through where the fence of the back garden was supposed to be repaired. As Father Hume diufQed to the heatwaiped lean-on pole of the verandah, the stranger was only a couple of yards away. He stopped there and smiled at Father Hume. "I need your help. Father," said the stranger, the smile still on his face. The man wore dirty dungarees and an army shirt, the buttons either missing or simply unbuttoned. His dusty feet were in worn sandals. His face was longish, most of its surface sprouting with days-old beard, and the balding dome was surrounded with short blond hair. Father Hume was fascinated by two things: The calm look from the man's eyes and his quiet, effortless baritone voice. His voice lacked the special whine which so often accompanied those words. "Of course," Father Hume nearly added "son," but there was too much dignity in the man. No, the right word flashed into his mind: it was "equality." "I'd say come into the house, but it's worse in there. Do I know you?" "No, Father. I am new in these parts," answered the man, his words still clothed in that relaxed smile. Walking around the verandah, he sat down on the edge and waited. "Maybe you'd like some cold drink. I have some canned beer in the fridge." "No, thank you. Father." It was all so strange. Australians, even in the city, were a friendly type of people, hi the out-back they all had that chummy opeimess about them which made even a ceson a relatively cheerful affair. iSSsh!ag he pulled the cane diair nearer to the edge of the veraiKlaii and turned it to face the quiet man. He felt awkward about his appearance. But who could wear a proper clerical outfit in a climate like this? Nonetheless, his right hand automatically went to his open-neck shirt, his fingers, embarrassed, fastening one button. "Ypo know, I can't get over the way suddenly appeared here. I thoi I only closed my eyes for a momc and when I opened them again, there you were strolling in the back yard. How did you get here? "ni come to that in a moment. Father," said the stranger without hesitaition. "Actually, that is part of my story." "Yes, of course," said Father Hume. "Wiat can I do for you, then?" "A confession. Partly it is a confession. Father." "Now see here, my son, if you are of the Faith, you know perfecfly well it can't be such a casual affair. Tomorrow is Sunday. Why don't you..." "I will be dead by tomorrow. Father," said the man, quietly, and still with the smile. F ather Hume sat up straight in his chair, feeling anger and bewilderment. "If tbis is your idea of a joke, stranger, I find it very tasteless." "It is not a joke, Father. My confession is as real as my death. In fact, one is a part of the other." llie man is mad, thought Father Hume. Maybe the heat. He said: "You sound very certain about it. In fact, it almost makes me think you are contemplating taking your own life. In which case of course I could never be able to accept your confession." "It is my kind of confession. Father, not yours. You see, I am a priest, too. But I am an alien." The stranger leaned to the comer of the house, his hands resting in his lap, waiting. "Yes, you have an accent... Did you say you were a priest?" "Yes." "Might I ask what denomination? And where do you come from?" The next sound was the shrill laughter of a kocka-burra which alighted on a nearby tree. The stranger looked at the bird, then turning his head, at the far distance where the almost sunken disk of the sun was radiating the skyline with orange red. His right hand moved up slowly, like a petal faling upwards, his fingers pointing. "I came from there, Father." "Where?" "If you travelled straight on in that direction, Father, first you would leave your sun behind, then your solar system, then your galaxy. There are suns and planets in the tems which leave one weak with humility, and there, way away there, is my world, similar to yours. That is where I come from." Mad. No, he corrected himself IF hastily. The poor chs is ill. Father Hume tried to keep up wA the modem trends, and, suice it seemed essential, he even read a few volumes on psyology and mental health. What was this, paranoid or schizophrenic? Whi one was it that created a world populated by their own weird creatures? "Of course, you think that I am mad. In your place I would think precisely the same," said the stranger softly. Yes, yes, but wasn't that one of the points? Often these cases, apart from their idee fixe, sound so rational... He had to say something. "Well -- " Father Hume was conscious that not only was his shirt soaked with perspiration, but now even his hand were coated with a fine film of moistme -- "who can tell where we come from?" "Naturally, I expected this reaction. Forgive me. It is essential that I show you something." Before he could stop himself, the priest set his feet against the wooden boards, pushing his chair back a few inches. "No, don't be alarmed, I will not move. I asked your forgiveness because I must show you something, and to do that I will have to utilize your own mind. I just want you to understand that we would never do this without permission. But I have so little time." Now there was urgency in the stranger's voice, but he still sat there unmoving. Only his eyes lived. Vibrated? Father Hume cried out in astonishment. H e could still see the strange, who called himsdf an alien and a priest. He was still sitting on the edge of the verandah; but, as he stared ahead something almost like a gigantic television screen opened the vista of a new world. "This is where I came from," said the stranger. His thin figure at the edge of the picture was framed by the orange-red sky. The giant screen now nearly enfolded Father Hume, and he stared with fear and incredulity at the scene. It looked like open country: thick grass, like a hand-knitted lawn, strange trees, with terribly tall, thin trunks, but their foilage resembled an umbrella spread wide in an enormous distance. It was broad daylight there, with one of the suns high in the sky, the other halfway to the horizon. One of die suns! The enormity of what he was seeing chilled his skin. The colors were wrong too. The grasses were green, but there was more than a suggestion of purple in them; the trees had blue bark, their leaves nearly lost to the eye against the vivid blue sky. Well, at least the sky was the right color. "My world has a much lower gravity than yours. Father," he heard the stranger say. "That's vriiy vegetation grows taller. And so do we." Now the picture seemed to be gliding forward. The original setting was a meadow; now they were out over hills, leaving behind a riot of color, where unearthly flowers dotted in bunches like gigantic buttons. "Dear Lord," whispered Father Hume. "There is no need for alarm, Father. It is just a way to show you what we are, where we come from. There is no magic attached to this; we merely have a small measure dramatic. We can't move mountains, nor can we teleport from world to world. Nor, for that matter, can we represent pictorial memories that we don't personally have. If, for example, I tried to show you part of my world with which I am not familiar, it would be the same as if you tried to tell me about China, if you had never been there. Flashes of scenes such as you might have seen in a book or film, but no continuity. You see, this is the town where I came from.' Near, maybe a mile away, Father Hume was gazing at a magnificent city. The buildings were very tall and made of some translucent material, showing colors and shapes hke the most beautiful mirage ever seen. He could see that the grass and the trees and the flowers went right up to the edge of the dty, like a wall-waM carpet, forming a perfect unity between nature and men. The stranger was still in the very edge of his vision, unmoving. 'Who are you?" shouted Father Hume, knowing that if this were true, his whole life, those years in the seminary, those years where faith and reality provoked bloody battlefields inside his mind, were gone and useless. There was power here and beauty. Feeling more than understanding. Father Hume was desperately afraid. "Apage, Satanasr he said and closed his eyes. T he stranger, sitting in the semidarkness, disappeared from view, but the un-world scene remained. "I am not the Devil, Father, and what you see is inside your mind." Opening his eyes. Father Hume feared he knew not what. "Wiy?" he whispered. "These are my people," said the stranger softly. He could see them coming. The stranger must have used a mental shorthand, because it wasn't a progressive picture, a flowing line. One moment he was looking at the city inerging sensuously with the earth, the next he was watching a large group of the stranger's kin coming towards him. They were close, only a few hundred yards away. There were children, and there were adults. They were all terribly tall, with the cMdren smaller in proportion, all dressed in deceptively simple garments made of some semitransparent material and all of a different hue. They formed a large circle, at one side of the circle a group of them separate, and within the circle were a handful of grown-ups and a couple of dozen children. All who formed the circle were singing, the group to one side providing the strong, main melody. Those in the circle began to dance. It was perfection. IF The melody was soft one v moment, to turn into steel hardness the next. There was gratefulness in the tone, followed by promise adoration. The dancers offered love and dignity with their movements, and throng both the sound and the dance there was a feeling of imhelievable unity. And faith. "No," groaned Father Hume. "No! Stop it." "That was a service to God that you saw," said the stranger. Why didn't he move? Was he a man or was he a gargoyle, created by repressed memories of guilt, which he so often tried to hide with the shape of his collars? "Dear God..." started Father Hume. "The same in whom I too, believe," interrupted the stranger. "I asked you who you were," demanded Father Hume. "My name doesn't matter. Father, nor does the name of my world. We didn't materialize, but traveled a long, long while, using a method which I know nothing about and which you will not discover for thousands of your years -- if ever." "We?" asked Father Hume. "Yes. We. We are missionaries." The priest wanted to jump up and shout, but he could do neither. Inside his body, his muscles were individual animals tearing at their invisible yokes, but he could not move. Nor speak. #CT beg your forgiveness. Father." X The stranger's voice shaded into pleading. "You see, we are a very old race. We had had our civilizations grow up and destroyed before there was even a single cell on this planet. We too rose high up from the etarly beginning and several times nearly succeeded in completely annihilating ourselves. However, that was a long time ago. "It was also a long time ago when the race suddenly discovered the reason -- or at least, a reason -- for our existence. We are dedicated to saving races from committing suicide -- of helping them to find God." The alien turned in his seat to face the father, his dark shadow separating from the wall, and now there was pain in his voice. "We created a science with which we can correlate all the factors of a civilization, and we can, with a dreadful certainy, predict its future. because we are an old race, and living beings in the darkness of your back yard above your head. The prognosis for your race is death." "You lie," said Father Hume. "I don't." We try not to interfere, because of the dignity of the race. There are times, though, like now, when we must reveal ourselves, because that is the only hope for saving the race." "If what you say is true, why should you be talking to me in particular?" "Because you -- many thousands like you -- can alter the fate of this world." "Me?" Father Hume laughed out loud. "You know who I am? I am a country priest, tending about a thousand souls in an area so big that the mind reels, and before I came here I was a country priest covering an area so small that it was nearly a joke. You know how old I am? I am nearly fifty-eight, and if the Lord so pleases, I shall live down here the rest of my natural life. Just what qualifications do you have in mind for saving ihe world?" The evening was quiet. Its darkening majesty was only broken by tiny animal noises and the wedge of fear emanating from Father Hume, still sitting unmoving, the hard pattern of the cane pressing against his perspiration-softened skin. At McBain's, in the pub, men would now be gathering for the evening drinking. The gigantic fan on the ceiling would be going round and round, swirling the cigarette smoke and the stale smell of beer. The faces burned hard, sown heavily with wrinkles, perspiration running down in their years-old channels. The voices would be high, bantering. It is Saturday night, not much different from the rest of them, except for the Sunday to follow. The talk would be about football, the bloody Chinks, and how about Vietnam? The same old risque jokes -- I beg your pardon Father, but did you hear this one? -- voluminous laughter, shrill from the partition where some of the women would be sitting, and he. Father Hume would stand on the edge of the crowd, hanging on to a glass of beer, because it was a different country, different customs. (He had to be there in shirt sleeves to make sure they saw his face. And next day, reluctantly, they woidd be turning up in the tiny church, their minds already on the chores the day after that, thinking Hume is all right, but wish to Heaven he'd hurry a little. I'll have to wash the car, or water the garden, or lay a bet, or play two-up, if only the bloody woman wouldn't insist on spoiling the best part of the day... T he alien stood up and looked up in the sky. His thin, tall figure looked like a pain-filled, burned-out tree from a Russell Drysdale painting. When he looked down and spoke again, his voice was slow, and in it, pain. "I told you I haven't time; Father. Well, my time has arrived. When we reached this world, we studied it most carefully for a long time and realized one tragic point. You people were conditioned into believing not so much in the power and glory of reasoning, but in blind, almost insane emotional persuasion. You even have a saying for it: 'it's worth dying for.' Almost all your deities had to do that before you began to believe. So we have decided to die. There were many of us in the ship we came in, and no one will go back. At this moment there are over a thousand of us standing in front of people like you. We stand in front of Lamas and Rabbis, Imams and Besharabs, Christian priests and Shamans; some of us stand in the burning sun. IF some in the dark, but we all do exactly the same thing: we beg of you to save the race. For this "When our ship explodes, we will all die for you. For you all." Somewhere, up in the immensity of space above, stars were blanketed out by a spreading globule of eyehurting brightness. There was no noise, only the swiftly growing luminosity. Father Hume's heart hammered in his chest, physical fear knotting his muscles, his lips opening and closing, opening and closing, no voice, his lips opening and closing, his eyes focusing with dread 'on the figure only a few yards away. Flames, yards high, were standing there, and in the core, for seconds the pain-twisted features of a man. Then the tall figure fell to the ground, the hungry flames consuming it as if it were magnesium. Father Hume stared until it was over. Even in the darkness, he could see a few bones left. He nearly fell on his face, as he stumbled over the raised edge of the verandah. Where the alien had stood, the ground was still hot, and in a few of the bones the marrow was gently boiling. It was then that Father Hume staggered back to the verandah and, supporting himself on the lean-on pole, was sick. His tears were flooding his face, with that unearthly core of explosion still hi in space. The new star to a new Bethlehem. Now in Galaxy! by Hayden Howard by Richard Wilson  Plus Jack Vance, Willy Ley, Philip K. Dick, etc. -- E # all in the February issue of Galaxy, on sale nowl S  ' S IF  Novelette The aliens chose their first contact with Earth at random. Did it really matter that it was a lunatic asylum? I ingly in a muted bass, waver in its course, then nose down sharply. I t had come out of the sky one Tlie sounds weren't loud and everynight, trailing a pink-white blowbody else in the home seemed to be torch blast behind it, and crashasleep. Hengsen, gripping the bars landed with a whump like a distant of his second-story window, knew bomb burst in the field on the immediately that it was no plane, far side of the supply shed. After a while an opening appeared Hengsen had seen the ship loom in the side of the disabled ship, up from the south, rumble protestHengsen could see light inside, and then shapes appeared and framed themselves against it. Two of them came out. He couldn't tell what they were, exactly, but they weren't men. They came on, up the slight rise, toward the home, in a steady gliding motion. The shed hid them from his sight for a moment and when they reappeared around it he could see better. There was starlight and prison for the criminally insane and, after a while, when the right amounts of money had been spread around in the right places, he'd been transferred to a private rest home. He'd been there a month. He didn't plan to be there another; before then he'd have the lay of the land, and he'd make the break. Those characters from the ship, though. What was their racket? a sliver of moon. He was glad it was only a sliver. Had the moon been full, all the nuts in the place would have been up and yapping. Hengsen himself was no nut. He was in a nuthouse all right, but anything was better than the electric chair or life in the state penitentiary. Hengsen had killed a man, but he'd had a good lawyer who'd pleaded insanity. So they'd sent him to a They'd better not screw up his plans. He laughed a little at that, nervously, and the things from the ship stopped dead. They must have better ears than a cat. They looked up, straight at him, and he got a good view of them. They had heads that sat right on top of their big round bodies -- no necks. They had a thick single leg each, ending in a kind of ball on which they were balancing now, leaning toward each other and consulting. Hengsen couldn't see their faces clearly, but he had the feeling their eyes were boring into his. He found out soon enough that they didn't have eyes -- not like people's eyes. H engsen stood up on a stool as they approached the back of the home, but the bars were in the way, and he lost sight of them as th reached the back door. Hengsen looked back across the field and saw that the door of the ship was shut now. The craft lay there, a motionless black hulk. He heard the back door open, though it should have been locked, and there was a moment of silence. Then there was noise on the stairs, as if they were having trouble navigating them with their ball-bearing feet. But soon the noise indicated that they had reached the top of the stairs, and there was silence again. Then his door opened. He knew that had 'been locked. The two of them glided in, each of them pointing one of its three arms at Hengsen, and the door closed behind them. Hengsen had rarely been scared in his fifty years but he was now. He stepped down slowly off the stool, Ids legs quivering, and stood by the barred window. His visitors we absolutely motionless, poised side by side, arms extended toward him as if in accusation. The eyes, three of them arranged in a triangle on each face, were protruding knobs of membrane with purple veins criss-crossing them. The heads and bodies were a dull gray white, as if they'd never known sun. Gray#)lack hair began at the lower parts of the bodies and grew down as far as the ball feet, dh were bone Vhite. Hengsen tried to think of something to say to the things. They didn't seem to want to open a conversation, and he didn't want to open it the wrong way. He didn't know what the outthrust arms could do to him, but he imagined it would be better not to find out. "HeUo," he said finally. "What can I do for you?" There was no reply. Just a slight oscillating of the six eyes. "Welcome to Shady Rest," he said. He tried to say it sardonically, but he didn't smile. And he curbed a nervous temptation to laugh. His legs were still trembling. Carefully, slowly, he sat in the stool. As slowly, the things lowered their arms. They also turned their heads slightly to look at each other while continuing to regard him with their veined membranes. Then they whirled and were out the door. The door closed. He rushed to it. It was locked, as before. I t was daylight when he awoke. He remembered lying on his cot, after he'd tired of looking out at the silent diip, and he remembered half fearing, half hoping diat the two creatures would come back to his room. They hadn't, and at last he'd relaxed. He awoke with the opening of his door, and he sat up so fast he IF got dizzy; but it was only the keeper, Hank. "Mrs. Balch wants to see you," he said. "Okay, Hank," Hengsen said. "How come you slept with your clothes on?" Hengsen put his feet on the floor and went to the window. The ship was still there. The door was closed. "I saw them," he said. "Did you?" "Yeah," said Hank. "They don't scare me, whatever they are, but Mrs. Balch is in a tizzy. They cut the telephone wires, or burned them out. Minnie let out a yip and fell over in a dead faint when she seen them and Cook, he won't set foot out of the kitchen." Minnie was the maid of all work. Cook was close to seventy. "Is that why Mrs. Balch wants to see me?" Hengsen asked. Hank shrugged. "I dunno why. She said to get you down there, so let's get. I ain't got all day." "Okay. I'm coming." "Walk ahead of me and don't try no funny stuff," the keeper warned him. "Remember I'm a karate expert, and I could hurt you bad." Hengsen smiled. He knew that the hulking, near moronic Hank had taken his karate course by correspondence. But he also knew that Hank was strong as an ox and could hurt him just by pushing him around. They went down the stairs and into the lobby. Mrs. Balch was a tall, beefy woman in the prime of her forties. She wore a severe tweed suit with a no-nonsense blouse, efficient low-heeled shoes and serviceweight nylons. There had been a Mr. Balch once, but he'd given up the ghost long ago. The widow Balch, now the sole proprietor, ran Shady Rest practically single-handed. She completely dominated Hank, Minnie and Cook, who were her entire staff. But she wasn't dominating anyone this morning. She was sitting at her desk in the corner of the lobby, the beings from the ship standing on either side of her. Minnie was lying on a sofa, apparently still unconscious with a damp cloth on her forehead. If Cook was in the kitchen he wasn't advertising it with his usual prebreakfast clatter. "Ah, Mr. Hengsen," Mrs. Balch said brightly as he and Hank came in. She wore an unaccustomed smile on her frown-lined face. "Good morning, Mrs. Balch," Hengsen replied, playing along With it, whatever it was. She'd never called him mister before, though she was collecting plenty for his board. "These gentlemen," she said, indicating the creatures from the ship, "have paid an unexpected call. They have had -- what shall we say -- engine trouble, and will be staying with us while they make repairs. They are traveling incognito, so to speak, and desire privacy. I've assured them that they can't do better than to stay here at Shady Rest." The veined eye membranes of the creatures had flicked from her to Hengsen as she spoke. "I see," said Hengsen. "And I'm supposed to cooperate? Maybe they'd like me to go into town and get them same magazines or cold beer? The creatures stirred ominously, levity, please, Mrs. Bidoh said quickly. Ilhere must be no oemmunioation with the outside werid beyond what is absolutely necessary. We have disconnected the telephone. The mail will be delivered and collected at the box on the read, as usual. And I personally will supervise deliveries from the market. "You'd better do something about the ship," Hengsen said. "The delivery men could see it, and it'd sure as hell be spotted by a plane flying over." "Yes, they thought of that. So I'm going to ask you and Hank to go out and -- well -- disguise it in some way. Do you know anything about camouflage, Mr. Hengsen?" "As a matter of fact, I do, a little," he said. "I could do it with soflse paint and canvas and shovels. But why should I beat my brains out for them?" T here was a sound of footsteps in the corridor. An elderly man in pajamas appeared, slip-slopping along in bacMess slippers. He was talking to himself and gesturing elaborately. Hengsen recognized him as one of Mrs. Balch's long-term guests whose delusion was that he was twins. His name was Jimmyjoha. Jimmy for one of the twins,john for the other. "Breakfast is a little late this year," Jimmy was saying tojohn. "Better late than oatmeal,John replied in a higher voice. "Never could stand oatmeal.' "Jimmy-john stopped and looked around hiim as he reached the lobby. "Good morning, my dear Mrs. Balch, said Jimmy's voice. 'TIell, saidjoin's voice, shortly. Jimmy was fond of her, butjohn neither liked nor trusted her. She was always trying to feed him oatmeal, and everyone knew oatmeal was one of the easiest foods to poison. The three-eyed visitors regarded the pajama-clad man warily. The nearer one half-lifted an arm. The farther one did the same, but directed it toward the sofa, where Minnie was coming to. The maid opened her eyes, sat up, saw the creatures again, gasped, pushed herself as far back against the arm of the sofa as sihe could and sat there, trembling. "Good morning, Jimmy-john," Mrs. Balch said. "You boys shouldn't really be out of your room, you know." "We were hungry," Jimmy said nonchalantly. "Who are they?"john asked, pointing to the creatures as if noticing them for the first time. "New ones, I imagine," Jimmy replied. "It's nice here," he said, addressing them, "if you don't mind a late breakfast." "Of oatmeal,"john added. He warned them: "Beware the lowly oat, for in its meal lurk things unknown." "I don't think they're men," Jimmy said. "Or, to put it another way, I think they don't think they're men. Look how peculiarly they're dressed." "A disguise,"john said darkly. IP "I think they're spies from State Health. Admit it," he said to the creatures. "Show us your puzzle blocks and your rubber hammers and whatever else you've got." Minnie could take no more. She screamed hysterically and dashed from the sofa toward the door. As one, the creatures whirled toward her. Each raised an arm and pointed it at her. There was a flash of blinding blue light, a crackle of sound and an acrid smell. Minnie stiffened and fell. There was no doubt in anyone's mind that she was dead. The creatures seemed to be trembling. Their veined eyes pulsed, and their outstretched arms pointed indecisively to each of the others in the room before they lowered them to their sides. Hengsen felt a throbbing in his head and suddenly words were there which said: "No more of that, please." He knew beyond a doubt that the words were those of the creatures and that they were a command he would obey. Jimmy-john took two steps backwajds, so that he came out of his slippers. "I believe I'll return to my room," Jimmy said. "I'll go with you,"john said. "It's warmer there." The elderly man turned around carefully and walked barefoot down the corridor. Hengsen said: "I'm ready to start on that camouflage job, Mrs. Balch, anytime these -- gentlemen want me to." U H engsen had had a not dishonorable discharge, as he put it, from the army. He'd served reluctantly but not without profit in areas which had included the black markets of the Pacific in World War II. He'd learned something about camouflage, and he did a passable job on the ship. From the supply shed it would look like a pile of junk. From the air, except to a trained observer looking for something, or to a camera, it would have appeared as a pile of rocks in the field. Hank helped with the painting and the heavier work. All the time they were on the job the ship's one entrance remained shut. No one entered it or left it but obviously there were other creatures inside. Apparently the door to it was not sealed. They could hear muted fits of banging from inside, as if the repair work was being attempted with more temper than progress. "What do you figure these guys are?" Hank asked, as they sto back to survey their finished job. "Russians?" Hengsen looked at him scornfully. "Russians are people," he said. "These birds ain't from any place on this Earth, bud." The ship was wingless and shaped like a cucumber -- bumpy the way a cucumber is and without any apparent opening except the door, a round cut in the side. "Okay," said Hank. "But how come they're here?" "I don't know, but I have a hunch. for what it's worth. They didn't plan to land here. By 'here' I'm not referreing to Mother Balch's cozy Nook; I mean they didn't intend to land on Earth at all. Their engine conked out, and they had to come down, that's all. They'll be on their way as soon as they get it fixed. So it's simple. We play ball with them and do everything they say and get rid of them as soon as possible."But where were they going in the first place?" Hank persisted. " don't know, pal," said Hengsen. "Maybe from Pluto to Venus, or from Venus to Jupiter. From Natchez to Mobile, for ail I know. Maybe they're taking it on die lam from the Space Patrol. I'm not a UJ.O. expert. I'm just one of Mother Balch's crazy pigeons. You'd get as good an answer from Jimmyjohn. Why don't you ask him?" 'Because he's a real nut," Hank said. "Also because I don't think you're as much of a nut as you msde out. I read the papers, you know." "So?" "So this, Mr. Wally Three-Gun Hengsen. I know you beat a murder rap that should of sent you to the chair. I know you had a smart lawyer, and that's the only reason you're here instead of in the death house right now. So don't get smart with me, Wally-boy, or I might just turn you in for the fun of it." Hengsen clenched his fists in the pockets of his work pants to help him control his tongue. "That's a lot of newspaper talk," he said finally. "I'm surprised it IB! took you in -- a smart guy like you. All I know is that for the record I was certified a nut, like the rest of the characters here, and here I am. I always thought you were my pal and that when I got out of this loony-bin I'd send for you. You'd make a good man in the organization. I used to think before you started shooting off at the mouth." "The organization?" "Yeah. My outfit likes a guy that can keep his yap shut. A real big-money outfit." "I can keep my yap shut. You don't have to worry about me, not if you're level." "I've always leveled with you, kid, so I'll tell you. Just between you and me and the Space Patrol, I'm waiting for the break. And when it comes. I'll be on my way. And any help I get I'll be ad of and pay for. So, if you happen to be the guy that helps me, there'll be a place in the organization for you. Is that straight enough?" "Straight as an arrow," Hank said. "Say, you want to take it on the lam now? You could get away clean and easy, and nobody'd see." "Thanks, but I'm not ready. I need cash and transportation and the right contacts." "I got fifty bucks I could let you have," Hank said. Hengsen knew then that the keeper was his man. "I can see you're real organization material," Hengsen said. "But no, thanks. I need real money and rn wait for the right time. Right now I'm holing up, like your threeeyed Russians." "I was only kidding about them being Russians. I guess maybe they're Martians." "Whatever they are, we'd better get back to the house and see if they put the arm on anybody else besides poor old Minnie." M rs. Balch was as close to tears as her dignity would permit. "Those horrible thingsV she said, kneading her hands. "Why did they have to come here, of all places? Poor Minnie! At least she's out of it. And poor Cook. He's in such a state I don't think we'll ever get lunch, let alone breakfast." Minnie's body still lay on the sofa in the lobby. Someone had covered it with a blanket. "Where are they, Mrs. Balch?" Hengsen asked. They went up to the cupola a little while ago. They're looking out -- Lord knows at what. They had their eyes on me every minute when I went for die mail. What are we going to do with them?" "Or vice versa," Hengsen said. "I won't even think about that. Will you and Hank take Minnie somewhere, please? I do hope they go soon enough for us to call somebody before... you know... I mean in time. "I suppose they had their eye on us all the while we were camouflaging the ship," Hank said to Hengsen, "so that if you'd tried to make -- " "Tried to go for the police," Hengsen put in quickly; " -- if either of us had tried to go for help they'd have rayed us down, or whatever it is they do with those arms f theirs." He shot a warning look at Hank. "Oh, they're evil," said Mrs. Balch. "They think at you, and you can understand what thejr want you to do. They phrase it so politely, but you know you have to obey. You have the feeling that back of their commands lie terrible things. Did you get that impression?" "Nah," Hank said. "Yes," Hengsen said. "I know what you mean, Mrs. Balch." Hengsen and Hank put Minnie's body in the cellar which was cool for the time being. They sat on crates near the corpse and rested. Hengsen smoked a cigarette and sought an angle. There were plenty of weird angles to the situation, but there had to be one that was right for him. There should be opportunity here, if he could only work it out. But there was also deadly danger, a quicker exit than the electric chair, if he muffed it. These three-armed boys didn't fool around. Probably he could get away, with Mrs. Balch distracted the way she He didn't have to wait for his contacts to spring him from the rest home. He knew where to find them. But these aliens, whatever they were, ought to be useful to him in some way, if only he could figure it out. The way they communicated, for instance. If he could learn to do that there'd be a fortune in it. It was like radio was to jungle drums or smoke signals. What a help it would be on a job if your lookout man could think right to you. And if it worked two ways, so he could read other people's minds, how about that? He could clean up in the stock market, or at a crooked prize fight. He could even go straight. Just sit back and listen to the deals being made, then cut himself in. "Let's get out of here," Hank said. "Minnie gives me the creeps." "Shut up. I'm thinking." "Let's go, Hengsen," Hank said. "Go on upstairs. I won't run away." Hank shuffled his feet, then got up. "Okay. But I'll be at the top of the stairs, so you better not try anything." "Who are you working for? Balch or me? Go on, beat it." "Yeah, I forgot. Okay, but I'll be up there anyway. We got to make it look right." "That's the smart boy." Their ship now, Hengsen thought. Was there anything there? Suppose he found a way to knock off the aliens. He'd have their ship. But it wouldn't do him any good unless he could drive it. And if he waited till they fixed it, they'd be gone. That angle looked like a dead end. If he knocked them off, the local cops or the state troopers, or somebody, would come in and take the credit. There was no justice. He wasn't getting anywhere. He needed more information, and he wasn't going to get that sitting in the cellar. He ground out his cigarette and got up. The thing to do was to go see the creatures. Up in the cupola. IF m O n the way up he tried to put himself in the proper frame of mind. Submerging his motives, he concentrated on thinking friendly, respectful thoughts. It wouldn't hurt to seem a bit stupid as well. He didn't see Mrs. Balch. Hank, Who had been standing in the hall, followed him up the sairs to the third floor. "That's far enough," Hengsen told him. "I'll be up there, with them. I ain't going to fly away." "Okay," Hank said. "I'll wait here." Hengsen climbed the rest of the way. The door to the cupola was closed. There was silence behind it, but Hengsen knew they were there. And he knew they knew where he was. He took a deep breath and knocked. The door opened. Neither of them was near it. They were at the window overlooking the camouflaged ship, balancing on their ball feet. Their arms, thank God, were at their sides. There was a throbbing in his head, and words formed in his mind: "Come in, Wally Hengsen." He hesitated. I must be crazy, he thought. I can't fool around with these boys. They're Major League, and I'm only Triple-A. "Exactly, Wallace." The words in his mind again. Wallace. Nobody had called him that since grade school. He stepped inside, not really wanting to, and the door closed behind him. Now he'd done it. He felt like turning and beating at the door, knowing it was locked, and yelling for Hank to let him out. But he forced himself to stand still, controlling the shakes that threatened behind his knees. "Sit down, Wallace. There is nothing to fear." Nothing to fear? He thought of Minnie. Harmless Minnie. They'd mowed her down for nothing. For laughing. "We apologize for that." The unspoken words. "We did not know you then as we know you now." There was a captain's chair next to a table with a world globe on it. Hengsen sat down carefully, moving slowly. His knees were quivering now. He pressed his heels against the floor to stop the shakes. "You are here to know us better. That is good." That wordless communication again. Which of the two was it? Their three-eyed faces, immobile told him nothing. "I want to help you," Hengsen found himself saying. "You have already helped us, Wallace. You were expert in camouflaging the craft." "Thank you." The humility came unnaturally to Hengsen. He twirled the globe on the table. It was dusty, and it squeaked. "A speck, your Earth. Ordinarily we would have ignored it, as we always have. But we are thankful, this time, that it exists." "Why?" Hengsen lifted his thumb and found Australia underneath. It seemed tiny. "You could not understand. You are merely Triple-A. You need know only that we will leave you when we can. Necessity detains us, not ambition." The word "ambition" stirred Hengsen. Thoughts flashed through his mind too fast to be controlled. He felt discovered. He tried, too late, to mask his thoughts, twirling the globe. There was no change of expression in the veined eyes of the creatures. But the unspoken words came: "You have ambition. Earthling." Earthling; not Wallace this time. He could deny it only with his mouth, so he did not try. They had rebuked him by calling him Earthling. "You would trick us if you could," the thought came, more aware than accusing. Wallace ("Wally") Hengsen looked at the spot on the globe that was New Caledonia, trying not to think, or to think innocuously. French-speaking isle, he told himself. Subtropical. Down where the trade winds blow. World War II. Guadalcanal. The Slots. Rabaul. Mosquitos. P-#'s. The Rising Sun. The setting sun. Meatballs on the enemy fuselages. Kamikaze. B-#'s. Hiroshima. V-J. His not-thought, his recollections of the war he had been unable to avoid, were vivid. In their intensity they blanked out any antialien schemings. He felt the aliens absorbing the reality of his remembrance, asquainting themselves with that past of the Earthling and his Earth. It had been a long time since he had thought back. IF H e'd had no reason to, before now. His thoughts had always been of Number One, in the long years following his discharge. But back then there had been more than himself. Even he had felt it, cynical punk that he'd been. A working together. A common cause he'd almost forgotten. "We see you more clearly, Wallace." Wallace again, not Earthling. "You are more complicated than we believed." That wasn't very original. One of the alienists who testified that he was legally insane had said much the same thing. The thought struck him that these three-eyed, threearmed, ball-footed creatures picking his brains were also alienists. Alien alienists. If his subconscious irony reached them they hadn't reacted to it. He felt them probing the involuhtary memory that went along with his recollection of the alienists and the professional unemotional murder of the youth (much like the punk he once had 'been) who had to he prevented from singing to the D.A. He felt them accompanying him as he relived the stalk through the streets, in and out of bars, parks and finally the confrontation in the vacant lot, the pulling of the trigger of the automatic with the muzzle pressed into the shrinking flesh of the punk, the flight in the trailing car, the sirens in the distance, the hole-up across the river and the waiting for the hunt to die down. "Go on." The alien thought encouraged him to continue. But when he emerged, roaring back across the long, high bridge to the city, he found that the hunt had not died. His information had been wrong, and they had nabbed him, grilled him, produced witnesses ('dio could know what eyes had spied from the empty-seeming windows), tried him and sentenced him to the chair. Only the appeal, the feigned symptoms, the tamperable machinery of the law had saved him, whisking him from penitentiary to the prison for the insane to Shady Rest, Mrs. Balch's domain. Now he was being tried again, by these creatures whose interest in him was ephemeral, who were marooned here temporarily on their way foom the unknowable to the unknown. But what he had hidden from the alienists was on open page to the aliens. How would they judge him? There could be no appeal from their verdict. The creatures had not stirred since he first entered the room. He might have been imagining everything. But he knew it was not imagination that held him submissive in the captain's chair, awaiting their pleasure... their need... Their judgment. IV H engsen spun the globe idly and stopped it. The South Pacific again. He found the spit of land that was Sansapor, the northwest coast of New Guinea. There'd been an airstrip there. He'd been shipped there from the repple depple at Noumea with a buddy. His buddy, Murray Stein. Murray was a tou punk from Philadelphia, but he wore a Star of David on the chain with his dogtags. He blackmarketed and goldbricked, but he sent his poker winnings home to his widowed mother. He had a foul mouth and world cynicism, but if there was no one else to do it he led the squadron's tiny Jewish congregation in Friday night prayers. And when that stupid crew chief got into the parked P-#I and accidentally triggered the cannons, it was Murray Stein who yelled "Get down!" and threw himself against the slower Hengsen so that they both sprawled on the coral floor of the ready hut. But only Hengsen got up. If Stein had acted alone he'd have been safe. In saving Hengsen, Stein caught a #-caliber slug in the back that tore out his heart. Hengsen helped dig the grave, and he swore as the burial service was read that some day, somehow, he'd repay Stein's selflessness. He'd forgotten that oath, until now. He sat in solmn silence, remembering. He had spoken not a word, and the three-eyed aliens were mute, as always. But they seemed less hostile. Then they reciprocated. They let him see into their own souls, or whatever aliens had. Briefly they lifted the curtain of their mystery, but it was long enough for him to sense the magnitude of their mission. He could understand what they had done so unfeelingly to Minnie. It had not been malice which had killed her. To them, when they had first come, the Earth people had been no more than annoyances in their bigger plan, to be swatted as mosquitos if they got in the way. With his glimpse into their thoughts, Hengsen could appreciate the overwhelming desperation of their voyage. It was clear to Hengsen that their journay was an epic one, on which their entire civilization, their very future, depended. They were the scouts, the advance party, the only possible salvation of their people. If they failed, their people died. With such an alternative, who could blame them for their seemingly callous disregard of a life or two on an alien, third-rate planet? It was as if Hengsen, fleeing for his life from an enemy shooting at him, should break stride to avoid crushing an ant. Now he could believe that the impassivity of their faces masked an anxiety that the repairs by their fellow creatures in the ship should be finished quickly, so they could leave this way station and get on with their all-consuming mission. So they could leave this puny world they had been forced to land on and resume their quest for the destined land which would support their fellows -- their buddies back home whose lives depended on them. Like Stein, they were selfless, risking their lives that others might live. Three eyes or two, ball-footed or arched, men were men. They sat in silence, the three of them, waiting for the turn of events that would free them to go on with their lives, to meet their differing destinies, whatever they were. And then the cops came, their arIF rival heralded by the whooping wails of sirens in the distance. T he aliens rolled to the door and out, Hengsen commanded to follow, and down the stairs. Out to the yard, past the startled Hank and the fleeing Cook and the retreating Jimmy-john and the satisfied-looking Mrs. Balch, the aliens not pausing in their ball-footed flight, as they could have done, to ray down the betrayer, whoever he was. And across the yard and through the field past the shed to the camouflaged ship, Hengsen following less swiftly, running, not sure why he was accompanying them. But why were the aliens fleeing? Hengsen seemed to hear the answer before the question was asked. Duty, he half-heard. Your police have their duty, we have ours. We regret Minnie. We could dispose of them easily but we won't kill another of you if we can help it. all this he seemed to hear. Running, stumbling, Hengsen saw the younger Hank gaining on him and throwing him the rifle. This must be the greatest thing that ever happened to Hank, Hengsen thought. What a nut. He caught the rifle by its barrel as the police cars skidded into the driveway and their doors sprang open, uniformed men pouring out, shooting. Shooting wildly at first, then dropping and taking aim. Hengsen, running zigzag out of a generation-old memory of combat, fell behind the aliens, who headed straight for the camouflaged ship. The circular door of the spaceship opened, and the aliens were inside it. Instead of clamping shut, the door remained open, a scant thirty yards away, and Hengsen heard the wordless alien voices. They seemed to be saying Our door is open to you. Come with us. But a fusillade of shots had him pinned down. "Come and get me!" he yelled, and they started to, fanning out on the flanks so he had to turn to fire at them at separate wide angles. B ut he wasn't shooting to kill, although they were. He was shooting only to hold them at bay until his friends -- his friends? -- yes, his only friends in thirty years -- could close their door (paying his debt to Stein) and be off. Then one of his wild shots, unaimed, caught a cop and doubled him up; and Hengsen knew he had killed him. So now it was over. He could expect no mercy. The police bullets, once divided between him and the ship, concentrated on him. It was only fair, he thought. What was a poor, worn-out hood worth compared to the mission of a race beyond the stars? Who needs you, you sad remnant of a decayed civilization? You've got nobody. They've got everybody, ugly and alien as they may seem to people who don't know them. But he knew them, finally, as he had almost known Stein, his one other friend. And then a cop he hadn't seen, off to his right, snapped a shot at him and got him in the stomach. The door of the spaceship closed then, though he didn't see it, and there was a confused medley of voices and thoughts; police coming up warily, talking to each other (Mrs. Balch had left a note in the mailbox); this is the guy the A.P.B. was out on; imagine him holed up on a funny farm; would you call that a U.F.O.? Anybody got a camera? Life and Time and the television are going to ask questions. It was better this way. The electric chair would have got him anywhich had been his fate ever since V-J Day, if not happy, then content. "The rat ain't going to live," a cop's voice said, intermingled with that of a voice from within the slowly rising spaceship which said in alien tones: Thank you, Earthman, Thank you, Earthman (not Earthling, but brother, buddy) for your fidelity to our fragile bond; our civilization thanks you... Maybe they could have escaped without his help. Maybe not. But they wanted him, and that was what had mattered. To have been needed was one thing. To have been wanted -- invited -- was another. He was glad, somehow, that he was dying here and now. He had done more than he needed to have done. Probably that had been its appeal. In his final living moment, as a lieutenant pulled out his notebook, and Mrs. Balch came out hesitantly, as the spaceship lifted majestically and hovered as if in salute before zooming skyward, he thought that to have paid the ordinary penalty would have been too -- too what? IF IF  Short Story He wanted to roam the starlanes. Nothing in the galaxy could keep him from it -- except the truth! T ie man seated at the desk tapped his pencil thoughtfully against the application form. He looked critically at the kid seated before him. "Look," he said sternly. "Just what mes you think you'd like Deepspace work?" The kid was caught off guard. He started to move his mouth a couple of times without making any sound, like a fish out of water. Finally he stuttered, "I -- I -- I worked on a merchant ship the last summer before finishing school. I'd like to see more of what's out there. That's all." "Yes, yes," the man said impatiently. "I see from your form you had a couple of months on the Venusian Lines. Interplanet flights. You may as well understand right now..." He stopped abruptly as the door opened and a tall man in the purple Deepspace uniform entered. The man held some papers in his right hand. To the kid his face appeared stern and hard, the face of a man accustomed to facing inconceivable dangers as a matter of mere routine. The face of the man seated at the desk brightened. "Hello, Larrer. Haven't seen you in quite a while. How's things going?" "Lost four men this last trip out," the tall man said. "Damned thing on one of the Outworlds. The thing must have been as big as a mountain. Picked the scout craft right out of the air and ate it like it was a piece of candy with the four men inside it. A nasty business. We could see it all from the main ship and hear them screaming, aU the time over the radio, hut there wasn't a danm thing we could do about it. Christ," the tall man said suddenly. "One of these days Fm going to get enough sense to quit this damn business. Sometimes Fd swear I could still hear those men screaming." "It's no job for someone like me, V ho's used to sitting at a desk. That's for sure," the man at the desk said. "But someone has to do it. How about it? Are you ready to go out again?" The tall man shrugged his shoulders. "Have to make a living some way." He handed the papers in his hand to the man at the desk. The man glanced at thfm, signed them, and handed them back. "There you are, Larrer. All clear." 'Thanks, Colonel," the tall man said. "See you in a few months, I hope." He left with the spaceman's quick, graceful stride. T he colonel turned back to the young man seated before him. "As I started to say, you may as well understand right now that there is no comparison between interplanet flight and Deepspace travel. The human mind is helpless to grasp the immensity of Deepspace. There's myriad upon myriads of suns, and you couldn't even begin to number the planets. There's creatures, beings, forms of life out there of every conceivable and inconceivable variety. Man is lost among it all." The coloiiel looked sterply at the kid to impress him with the seriousness of it all. The kid's face was lit up like the face of a small child being told about Santa Claus. "Look," the colonel said solemnly. "Deepspace work is a dangerous business. There are creatures out there -- strange creatures, tremendous creatures that can smash in the side of a spaceship like an elephant would crush an egg." The kid was practically on the edge of the chair now and hanging on to every word. The colonel rubbed his fingers across his eyelids and suddenly he was a tired old man. "Listen," he said bluntly, "I know why you want to go to Deepspace. I knew before you asked me. It's not the work. It's the glamor that brings all you kids in here." "But -- " the kid interrupted. "No buts," the colonel said. "I just want you to understand my position, that's all. My job's not easy. Every time I approve an application I may as well be signing a death warrant. There's nothing really glamorous about Deepspace. It's dangerous work, sure, but there's no glamor to it. How would you like to have to face an alien life form no human being has even seen before? Some creatures so alien your mind can't accept their existence. So alien you'll wake up screaming the rest of your life from having nightmares about it. In situations such as those there are no rules to go by. You have to make up your own rules -- and they better be right, or you end up just IF another cold, dead body circling around a distant star. On top that there are situations whicth are not only dangerous but are downright riculous. "Take that man who was just in here. A few years ago Larrer was seated before me just as you are now. Young and green, just like you, and brimming over with the glamor of going into Deepspace. Well, he made it, and you want to know what happened on his very first time out? One of the most ridiculous incidents in the history of Deepspace travel. They had set down on an asteroid way out in Deepspace when the radar sighted something which couldn't have been there." The kid looked as if he was about to fall off the edge of his chair. The colonel paused to light a cigarette. "Larrer was in the control room, and he looked at the blip as it approached. " 'Captain, it's not a meteor, Brown, the radar man said. 'It's velocity isn't constant.' " 'Are you sure, Brown?' the captain asked. 'Your radar must be on the blink. Ever#ng has a constant velocity this far out in spacel' " 'Positive, Captain, the radar's okay. It's changed its velocity again. It's stiU too far away to use our mass as reference.'" T ie colonel observed the kid to see bow be was taking the story. He was 'breathing in short, quick breaths like a runner. "Well," said the cplonel, "it couldn't have happened by the rulebook. But rules don't apply in Deepspace. Larrer opened a porthole and looked off from the starboard of the ship. He saw something out in space. Suddenly it was quite near and crystal clear as objects in space are. Larrer gaped at it. It was at least twenty times as long as the ship. It had a long wavering shape, and all over it were small, round spots that glowed and sparkled like gems before a bright flame. All the time the sonar emitted weird, burbling and gurgling noises. "Suddenly, unbidden, there came into Larrer's mind the lines from Lewis Carroll's poem Jabherwocky: Did grey and gimble on the wabe All mimsy were the borogoves And the mome raths outgabe -- "'That's what this thing is,' Larrer thought. 'A Jabherwocky.' 'The others had sighted the thing now on the visi-screen. " 'By the great rings of Saturn!' " 'It's almost on top of usl' "'What in God's name is it!' "'What'll we do. Captain?' "'It's too late to do anything,' the captain said. 'It's too dose to us. If we used the atomic Master on it now we'd destroy the ship. We'll just have to lay here and hope it goes away.' "They stood watching as the strange thing came right on and on. The sonar continued to emit the weird burbling, gurgling sound. The thing stopped just short of the ship. "'It's examining the ship.' "'Good God, Captain, it's going to sit down right on top of usi' "And that seemed to be that. The thing dropped down right on top of the ship, and it stayed there. The men didn't know what to make of it. " 'What's the damn thing doing? " 'Nothing. It's just sitting there. "'What'll we do. Captain? " 'There's nothing we can do, said the Captain. 'We have the laser beam, which wouldn't kill it. At least not right away. And if that thing started threshing around it'd crush this ship like an egg. Does anyone have a theory as to why the thing just keeps sitting up there? "By the third day the men on the siup had reached the conclusion that the thing was not going to go away. They had also almost gone out of their minds trying to figure out why it just kept sitting there. Then Dunned, the engineer, came rushing into the observation room. " 'Captain, I've been going through our Encyclopedia Galaotica microfilm. The thing's listed. It was observed by the #th Galactic Geography Survey Team. They call it the Scintillus. colossus. Listen to this: 'Among other Deepspace creatures observed was the Scintillus colossus, so named because of its enormous size and because of the sparkling, gemlike appearance of the female of the species. The creature emits electrical energies of varying frequencies which has the effect of producing a strange burbling sound from the ship's sonar. From our limited survey of this creature, it was determined that the creature is oviparous and that it attains sizes exceeding two thousand feet in length. # #reat,' the captain responded disgustedly. 'Now we know someone else had seen the thing. But we still don't know why the thing just keeps sitting on top of us like a hen sitting on an egg. The captain did a double take. 'Let me see that note, Dunnerl " 'Thats it, the captain said, looking at the paper Dunner had brought in. The thing's oviparous. It lays eggs. Just how big do you think one of its eggs would be? "'Judging from its size, at least as big as this ship.' Larrer said. He shot the captain a startled look. 'You don't mean that thing thinks the ship's an eggl "'Think about it a minute, the captain said. "'One of the men breathed a sigh of relief. 'Well then, there's nothing to worry about. We know the thing won't harm the ship. "'Not so fast,' the captain said. 'We have no idea how long the normd incubation period of one of its eggs is. The thing might sit up there for months. We have supplies only for four months. The trip back in takes three months." "A week went by, and the situation was becoming desperate. Although everyone on the ship was racking his brains to come up with some idea to get that overgrown sitting hen off then, no one could come up with any practical suggestion. They seemed doomed to sit there either until they hatched or starved to death." IF "And that," said the colonel, looking critically at the kid, "is Peepspace glamor in actual fact," #T)ut how did they get out?" JD "Oh, that," the colonel said. "Well, Larrer was the one who made the suggestion, and he got a promotion out of it. They simply turned on all the heating units and got into their spacesuits for protection. The surface of the ship kept gettting hotter and finally the ship got too hot for the thing up there to sit on. And of course, as soon as the thing rose up into space the ship took off." The colonel chuckled. "I bet that thing is still puzzled about that egg. First it gets too hot to sit on, and then it goes shooting off into space." The kid laughed too, and then the colonel was suddenly serious again. "Okay. I tell you what I'll do. I'll leave it up to you. If you still think you want Deepspace work, sign this paper, take it out to the front office, and you're on your way." The kid signed hastily. He took the paper and left hurriedly, afraid the coloned would change his mind. The kid was barely out of the office before the tall man came back in. "How'd you make out? Did you get the kid signed up?" "Hell, yeah!" the colonel said. "He signed it like he was afraid I'd change my mind." "What technique did you use this time?" "The usual." "Not that bit about another cold, dead body circling around a distant star?" the tall man said disgustedly. The colonel nodded. "And the 'you'll wake up screaming the rest of your life? stuff?" the tall man asked amazed. The Colonel nodded again. "I also told him the Jabberwocky story," he said complacently. "Good God! Not the egg story!" "Swallowed it hook, line and sinker," the colonel said. "Hell, it's not a bad story. In my opinion it's a real classic. There's some type of psychological appeal to it." The tall man looked more disgusted than ever. "This is a heU of a racket. Colonel. Sometimes I get so disgusted I think I'd actually try a Deepspace voyage myself. Space is big enough, there's no telling what they might find out there." "Sure, sure," he said. "Only it so happens that in three hundred years about all they've found out there is some lichens. You didn't know Brown did you?" "No," the tall man said. "Well, he was in Deepspace work for thirty years. Then he found something alive on an asteroid out there somewhere. It was fust a little buglike thing no bigger than the tip of your finger, but he was as proud of it as if he had discovered one of those alien civilizations they write about. He carried the thing around with him for years in a little plastic bottle. Had it last time I saw him. "What do you suppose will happen when the kid discovers there's nothing out there but boredom?" the tall man asked. "Oh, he'll get over it," the colonel IF  Novelette The planet was only a battleground in Gree's war against Mankind... but the non-combatants had to die! X?gral was angry. His huge body was bunched on the low wide platform-stool like that of some oversized, overmuscled black Terran feline. The thick neck, almost a torso, that rose from a broad chest was erect and rigid; the third pair of limbs -- stubby arms that sprouted midway up the neck -- folded tensely. Steve Duke said firmly, "We bargained in good faith." The Remm's wide-set eyes glared. "What difference does that make? If I hadn't bargained, we wouldn't have led this Gree Empire to our very doorstep. The Task Force I was with would have stayed lost out in the Sparse Regions!" Steve tried not to look at the Remm's fangs and claws. "There's no certainty at all that we led them here. This isn't the first galaxy they've cxnquered. Don't you think they'd move in toward the Hub sooner or later?" "Sooner or later!" Egral's shortmuzzled face showed disgust. "Sooner or later! How do  know what might have happened ten generations from now? It's my tail -- " he waved that truncheon-like member for emphasis -- "that's in a crotch now. I had absolutely no right to bargain with you -- I, a mere linguist -- no right or qualification at all! You bamboozled me into it!" He shifted his weight jerkily. "The mildest thing I've been accused of is treason." Steve muttered, "They'll never accuse you of being inarticulate." Louder, he said, "Since you've condemned me, tell me the details so I can brood over my crime. Have you actually seen Gree ships? Have you located their Base?" Egral snorted. "Seen them? There was a skirmish, and they were better prepared than we were. Two of our capital ships are lost in null. The ones that got home are damaged. We know the approximate location of the Base. We captured one small auxiliary, with navigation computers intact." Steve sighed. "Your High Command was warned that you can't fight Gree with just capital ships." Egral scowled. "We're building escorts, somewhere. Naturally -- now -- I'm no longer privy to classified information." "Privy, eh?" Steve grunted. "You've really mastered English. Are you close enough to the privy to know if the Base is being scouted?" Egral, without looking any less angry, showed his fangs in a grin. "My superiors see no reason to risk a peotly good and loyal personnel. I'm to accept your offer to volunteer. You and your two companions and I will go in the captured ship. We won't know the way back, in case we're captured. We'll have small message drones, but we won't know to where they're programmed. If we survive initial contact, and if we send out adequate data, and if we can destroy the null terminal so Gree can't send reinforcements, my superiors may risk trying to pick us up instead of blasting the whole planet." Steve digested that. "As easy as that, eh?" The Remm said, "I was sure you'd be delighted, and so am I. The Tribunal considering my case has been reading ancient history. Before we became over-civilized, we used some interesting forms of punishment." T hrough the viewscape, the planet showed no sign of habitation. It was one of the discus-shaped worlds so common here, with a core of the dense matter Steve still couldn't think of as normal, which showed a polarization of gravity along its axis of spin. From this angle the banding showed clearly: an iced pole, a dark brown tundrazone, then a wide greenness stretching to the equatorial clouds. Fazzool, the gray-hided B'lant, looked up from his instruments. "If I have ze physics right, gravity halfway between ze pole and ze equator should be about zero point seven." Steve said, "They'd put the Base in higher gravity if they had a choice, so personnel wouldn't get soft. Do you still place it here?" "Zat is where ze only electromagnetic spill comes from." Steve glanced at Egral, who looked on, tail twitching. "Better get the backpacks ready." Steve put the ship in a fall, and spoke hurriedly for his throat-mike. "Emergency! Emergency! Do you have a fix on us? We have only partial control! If you'll set a landing-spot, we'll try to -- "He pushed a computer-stud, and preprogrammed static drowned out his words. The ship bucked, the image of the planet whisking offscreen and back. Steve's companions were shouting wildly in B'lant and English. Steve yelled over the din, "Our gravs -- " An Overseers's voice came through harshly. "Identify yourself. Slave!" "J-Jen, sir; #-#-#! We took heavy damage and I'm ranking survivor! But I'm not -- the controls -- " The voice snarled, "Stay in space, you fool! We'll send up a rescue ship. Check your fall, or we'll blast you!" Steve let the static roar again. He threw a glance at the others, then watched the viewers. A light blinked orange. A missile-launching. Orange lines grew toward the center of a scope. He put the ship in an erratic, jerking course; struggled out of his seat, hanging on with one hand as Egral slipped packstraps over the other shoulder. He let go long enough to shrug into the harness. then pulled himself to the controls. He yelled at Fazzool, "See any open spots?" The B'lant jabbed a gray finger at the screen. "Zat lake!" Steve punched studs; braced himself. "Thirty seconds!" Air was shrieking around the hull now. The sound became deafening as the hatch shot open. Fazzool crouched in the opening, staring down. A blast rocked the ship as a missile went off nearby. Fazzool waited a few seconds, then jumped. Egral went next, his great form barely clearing the hatchedges. Steve, nerves screaming, shoved Earth-bom Ralph Parr through the hole,then followed. The lake rushed toward him. His harness gray cut in gradually, so there was no jerk. He saw Egrd plunge in and braced himself for the impact. He hit and floundered for a moment, then swam desperately for the palegreen wall of trees, his pack weighting him down. He was almost stunned as another missile went off somewhere, followed by a rattling detonation as the ship blew up. He caught a glimpse of Egral slowly pulling ahead of him He blundered into something below water -- a giant tree-root -- and pulled himself along it. The Remm was already standing hock-deep, a hand extended. Steve let himself be hauled out, stood gasping, then turned to look for the others. Fazzool, grinning as widely as his blunt, thick-skinned face could manage, waded in. Ralph Parr grounded a moment later, bent coughing up water, then slogged forward. Steve gestured toward a IF fan of the enormous roots. "Out of sight!" There were no more explosions, and no whoosh of aircars within hearing. He'd timed it well; the ship had paused over the lake long enough for them to jump, then shot off to draw away missiles. There were Slave Warrior corpses enough in one compartment -- preserved by the cold of space -- to make the wreckage convincing, he hoped. Energy-pistol in hand, he took time to look around. U T his was a swamp, choked with trees and undergrowth except for the open lake. It had a peculiar odor, besides the dankness -- a sweetish one that reminded him of a hospital or laboratory. The trees were tremendous, but he couldn't see much of them through the undergrowth. That was mainly of one kind -- ferns, he supposed you'd call them -- with straight slender stems to a height of ten feet or so, then bursts of pale-green foliage that made him think of enormous ostrich plumes. He stepped out cautiously to see what they'd taken cover under. Some of the roots were as thick as a man. They fanned out from a great burl or tuber that must be a hundred feet across. From that buttress four monstrous treetrunks rose, the smallest of them twenty feet through at the base. Fifty feet up, the limbs began. They were striaght and horizontal, only long enough to brush those of the neighboring trunks. The leaves -- if you could call them that -- were on a scale with the trunks. Four or five hung like pennants below each limb. The mature ones were five or six feet wide at the limb, tapering down, ten or twelve feet long pale green, translucent and thin, but veined in red, giving an oddly animal impression. Birds, also pale green, the size of eagles but scaley and featherless, with parchmentlike wings, clung to the fruit that hung below the maturest leaves -- brown, rough-rinded, watermelonsized, with reddish pulp that the birds globbled down. One bird, so far up the monstrous tree that his squawks came down only faintly, was flapping about what looked like a green meter-long lizard with eight or ten legs, that crouched on a limb, reptilian jaws agape as his h#ad swiveled to confront the bird. Here and there similar lizards, scuttled, their stumpy fat legs agile, their claws maintaining them easily on the trunk or the vertical leaves. The swamp, now that the explosions were ten minutes, past, was coming aliye with hissings and squawkings and the flap of wings. Somewhere far off, some animal bellowed repeatedly like a gargantuan fogjiorn. Steve said, "We'd better get farther from that wreck, and into opener country. Did anyone see the inlet of this lake?" Fazzool pointed. "Zat way. And zere are hills." Egral, nostrils and stubby ears atwitch at the swamp soim and smells, protested, "Shouldn't we reconnoiter a little while we're this close to the Base?" S teve shook his head. "They might , comb the area, if they're at all suspicious. I want to get to some high t where we can watch things for a couple of days." He shifted his back to a more comfortable balance. Egral grumbled, but moved out in front But after they'd gone a few yards a sound from high in the trees made Steve crouch, gun in hand. Up there, a horn was blowing purposefully -- high-pitched and clear, but soft, like a muted bugle. He knew, as surely as he knew it was no natural sound, that there was language in that playing. Egral asked softly, "Gree?" Steve shook his head. "Somebody, or something, that doesn't have radio. They're reporting on us. But to whom?" He looked around, then hurried on, staying under the ferns as much as possible. There was another horn-message when they started up, the inlet -- a small river, nearly canopied over. Then there was another when they reached the edge of the swamp and started up a canyon. For a way there were ferns, but those ended where grassy banks sloped up to hills halfcovered with trees like huge willows. They heard no more horns for a while. Sunset came before they were as far or as high as Steve liked. He chose a spreading tree beneath which to make camp for the night. While Ralph and Egral strung proximity-alarms about, Faool broke out rations. "Zese will do for tonight, but tomorrow I'll start experimenting wiz local food. I wish we had brought some of zose fruits from ze swamp. But zere are ozzer bzings here, and plenty of lizards along ze river." Steve, spreading out the backpacks to dry, told him, "First we'll get through the night if we can, then we'll find a spot we like. Then you can start to go native." But there was no alarm during the night, and only a few bugles. And before noon the next day, they found a spot Steve thought would do. T he place was a good five miles from the edge of the swamp; a small plateau above the river but with a creeklet crossing it. The willowlike trees grew thick; the grass -- also pale green -- was tall enough to lie in and be concealed except from above. There was a steep slope backing the plateau, with one actual cliff against which they made camp. Egral prowled restlessly, eager to get out the telescopes. Steve restrained him. "First we have to be secure, if possible. It'll take the rest of the day to set up alarms and stuff. Also, we ought to get a look at those musicians before we let them see us spying. Actually make contact, if we can." Ralph said, "They don't seem to have followed us since we broke camp this morning." Egral said, "They've been watching us all the time." He jabbed a thumb upward. "I wasn't sure until a minute ago." Steve peered up through the foliage. Far up in the sky was a pair of bird-shapes. He got to his feet, rummaged around and returned with a small monocular. IF Five minutes later he lowered the glass. "You're right; they're not birds. But all I can make out is a silhouette, like a small stubby-winged plane." Egral said, "I can see more. There are humanoids, or something like it, wearing those wings." Steve tried to find the bird-shapes again, but they were out of sight. "You told me," he said to the Remm, "tliere'd never been any humanoid races evolved this near the Hub." Egral made the equivalent of a shrug. "Conditions don't favor bipeds or purely diurnal animals. But these needn't be native." Fazzool demanded, "If Gree brought zem, why haven't zey reported us? " "That's a puzzle," Egral admitted, "but there they are, gliding around in plain sight of any aircar that might come by, apparently unworried." Steve said, "I don't think even your eyes could see a worried expression at that distance. But we have to assume they've at least some sort of truce with the Gree garrison. Vm worried." B y evening the plateau was well bugged with electronic warnings, and the other gear was stowed out of sight. Fazzool had gone down to the river and killed a lizard, and now had slabs of its flesh sizzling on the hot-plate. Egral was padding about restlessly, tail lashing. "Damn it! We haven't even looked toward that Base. I'm going to take a telescope to the edge of the plateau and lie under a tree." Steve had been considering the same thing himself. "It'll be a while before Fazzool has that lizard-meat tested. I'll go with you. Ralph, you stay here and take clinical notes, and we'll help you dig the grave later." He got the two biggest scopes and handed one to Egral. As he followed the impatient Remm, there was bugle-talk overhead. They found a suitable spot, set up the tripods and afixed the scopes, and carefully parted the grass. There was no problem locating the Base. Perhaps twelve miles away, airline, just beyond the swamp, the hills were speckl with light. Steve said, "That radio transmission came from the swamp itself, or I thought it did." Egral said, "It's possible. Can't you see by starlight?" The starlight was a thousand times stronger than Steve was used to, but that still wasn't much. "See what?" "Why, the jungle is discolored just this side of those lights, as if some of the trees were dead or injured. But it's a much smaller patch than I expected." Steve asked, "What's on the slopes?" "Missile emplacements, radar gear, ground defenses. No large buildings." Steve said, "Then the Base is underground. Can you see any air activity?" "Certainly. Aircars coming and going. Patrols, I assume." Steve peered through his scope, saw small craft over the spot. "Wdl, then we're not going to learn enough at a distance. I'm not surprised. Eventually Fazzool and I will have to put on uniforms and sneak in." Egral said, "And in the meantime?" Steve squirmed into a more comfortable position. "In the meantime, we learn more about the planet and work out some way to create confusion, so Fazzool and I can sneak in." He lay a moment, thinking. "Do you really believe, personally, that they couldn't have found a way in here with ordinary null?" "Well," (the Remm growled, "a step-by-step advance would take many lifetimes." He shifted his weight and pointed skyward. "The Hub warps null as well as space. It's in sight now; had you noticed?" "No." Steve followed the point and located the slightly darker smudge in the awesome starfield. "Not very big from here, is it?" Egral said, "We're still ten thousand light-years out, if distances are meaningful any farther in than diis. You should read some of the theory I couldn't translate for your scientists. Especially about the polarity, along the axis of rotation. As far out the axis as fifteen thousand lightyears, the pidl breaks matter into ultimate particles and whirls them out in the galactic plane. Eventually they condense into new hydrogen and start the long evolution into stars. I tried to translate into B'lant and Effogan by comparing the Hub to a centrifugal pump, but the analogy is poor." Steve said, "Well, I'll avoid the axis. I wouldn't want -- " He went silent as Egral was suddenly on four feet, staring toward the camp. T here was a shout, followed by the blam of Ralph Parr's powder-burning pistol. Steve rolled to his feet and ran after the streaking Remm. When he arrived, the other three were crouched behind treetrunks, staring upward, weapons in hand. On the ground lay what looked like a small parachute draped over some bundle. Ralph said, "There's another lodged in a tree. I thought they were parachute bombs." Steve stared upward until he saw the lodged one. Slowly, he felt for a flashlight. "They've got us pinpointed. A light can't hurt." He flashed the beam on the dark object hanging in the shrouds. Fazzool, for once, gaped. "Why... zat is one of ze fruits from ze swamp! Zey -- look, zere comes more down!" The B'lant moved to catch one. "Now why n zis world -- ?" Ralph's grizzled beard suddenly shook with laughter. "Why, it's obvious! They worship the lizards, and they're dropping us food so you won't kill any more!" Fazzool gave him a glare, but reached for his knife and hacked off an end of the fruit. He sniffed at it and said wonderingly, "If zis is not protein -- and very much like meat -- zen I am one of zose lizards!" Steve said, "Maybe a dead one, if you try to eat it." Fazzool shook his head vigorously. "No. Ze birds and lizards were eating zem. And we can tell if ze rinds have been punctured." Steve said, "Something funny IF about this. Even if they are simply donating food, there's hardly been time, since you killed that lid, to fly down there, get fruit, bring them here and attach parachutes." Egral said, "I don't think they had to. There's been bugle-talk, and some of it was from up-country." Steve stared up into the darkness. "All right. Fazzool, you'd better give these tree-steaks the survival test. Declining might be a mortal insult. And tomorrow we go hunting the source." He looked at Egral. "Do you agree that making friends with these people may be the quickest way to get at the Base?" Egral said, "Of course. If it turns out that simple." Ill B efore the sun was halfway to noon, they'd climbed up canyon to where the river emerged from a narrow, deep gorge. Steve paused. "Fine plaice for an ambush." "Which," Fazzool agreed, "may be why zere have been no bugles lately." Egral unbuckled his harness. "I'll scout. Shall I take a radio?" Steve shook his head. "Can't risk even weak transmission. Better go a hundred yards at a time and find spots to signal back." He found a place against a boulder and watched the Remm slink into the skimpy brush. "Apparently he's satisfied now that these people aren't with Gree." Fazzool said, "We have only his long-range view of zem to indicate zey are humanoid. I have been calculating. A man could not glide on wings ze size of zose, even in zis air and gravity. Ozzer zings have two arms and two legs, loosely speaking. A Terran frog fits zat description." Steve said, "I won't reject his opinion lightly. There is something odd about this whole situation -- Gree's appearing on this particular planet, where humanoids are already, or something like them. And I think that plateau was artificial." Ralph looked doubtful. "I've seen just such plateaus on Earth, certainly natural." "Yes," Steve admitted. "But when a chunk of hillside's broken loose to leave a plateau like that -- by volcano or .earthquake or whatever -- there are signs. I walked around the perimeter and looked down all the slopes. No loose rock, no lava. I think it was chopped out, and the rock carried away somewhere, and that stream redirected to provide water." Fazzool said, "If so, it was not recently." Steve shrugged. "There were humanoid races with null travel fifty thousand years ago. Maybe there's something about this particular region that makes it easier to get to. That would explain Gree's doing it." Ralph objected, "Wouldn't it be pretty coincidental, our finding an artificial plateau right away? Unless there were a lot of them." Steve pointed out, "We didn't just happen to find it. We were loolg for a good view of the swamp and lake. That may be why it was there." Fazzool nodded slowlyw "Zen zese people would be retrogressed descendants." "Right." Steve looked up the gorge. "There's Egral, waving." T here was no ambush and no bugles. However, beyond the gorge, they found the source of the protein fruit and also evidence that the natives had not always been at peace with Gree. The cliff-enclosed valley was no more than a mile long and half that wide. At the lower end was a small lake. The rest didn't look swampy, but there was a solid jungle of the protein-producing trees. Birds swarmed, their hoarse cries faint with distance. On the upper shore of the lake was a cluster of devastated huts, charred or flattened. Tree houses, too, lay where they'd fallen. Yet, other tree houses looked intact, though deserted. Fazzool said, "A punitive raid, perhaps, to teach ze natives respect. Or prisoners may have been taken for study." Steve was scanning the trees. "There could be an army of them, waiting. Egral, do you see any?" "I'm not sure," the Remm said. "There was something stirring when we first came into sight, but it could have been a big lizard. What if they just keep avoiding us? We can't chase them all over the planet!" Steve started down. "I think they'll show themselves if we don't make any threatening moves. They already Imow we're not with Gree, but they're probably as worried about us as we are about them." They circled the lake and paused. Fazzool pointed to a tree house. "Look! Ze floor is made by gluing zose big leaves edge-to-edge somehow, still fastened to ze limbs! And ze walls and roof are of cut leaves! Zose must be very tough!" Egral said, "Big lizards crawl up them without leaving any clawmarks. And to hold those heavy fruit, in a storm, they'd have to be toiigh." Steve was looking for stairways. What he found instead -- hard to see against the foliage -- was a long ladder, apparently attached at the top to a still-living leaf. "I think," he said, "we'll act as if we're about to set up housekeeping and see what happens." He walked toward the ladder. But when he reached it, he paused, astonished. It was made from leaves -- vertical ropes and rungs, laminated until they were thick and semirigid. And the whole structure was green, and still alive! The rungs continued into the ground as if rooted. The veins spread up, as well as downward from the high limb. He peered up at the houses and got the same impression. Bugles were talking. After a pause, one answered from the distance. He grinned and stepped into the open. "I'll bet you each a tree-steak that was the okay to make contact." It was only a minute until the native came down in graceful swoops; face down beneath wings no more than four feet long but a good twoand-a-half wide, rigidly fixed, slanting up a little to the tips, thickly cambered. The fuselage was a mere short boom -- hollow, no doubt -- and the tail assembly was small and very close behind the wings. The whole, of course, was made from IF the leaf material, still veined and looking alive. The humanoid's knees were bent to his heels almost touched his buttocks. His insteps fit into stirrups that evidently controlled the tail. The main support was at his waist -- not a complete band, but a wide bracket open at the side so he could slide in. The arms were not extended under the wings, but bent, elbows at the ribs, so his hands -- very sinewy, and overlarge for his size -- grasped two stirrups. Those grips, Steve saw, were controls as well as supports. As the contraption neared the ground, the flyer's fingers did things and airjets hissed. The apparatus tilted up, stalled, settled lightly. The being's feet withdrew from their stirrups and swung down like a bird's as he landed gracefully. In one contortion he was free of the waist-bracket; then, as if the apparatus weighed no more than a few pounds, he flipped it over and laid it bottom-side-up. The familiar laboratory smell of the trees came stronger from the flying apparatus. T he native turned, obviously nervous, staring especially at Egral. He wasn't over five feet tall, very lean, but with tendons that stood out like cables. His skin was tawny; hairless except for the short black curly patch on his head and a little beard on his chin His eyes were dark and quite human looking. But what Steve gaped at was the pair of short, straight, blunt-ended horns -- mere vestiges -- that barely poked out of the hair. He heard Fazzool take a deep breath. Steve shook off his astonishment and stepped forward. "Is it possible," he asked wonderingly, "that you... speak Effogan?" The native started and turned wide eyes at him. After a moment he said in a rather high voice, "We are the Doyt. Effogan is the tongue we learn from the ancient talkingwires. But how is it that you -- the report says you came from the skyl While the others, the violent ones, came from the ground! The legends say..." Steve found himself laughing. "A lot's changed since your ancestors colonized this world. Now, other descendants fight the tyrants who did this -- " he indicated the blasted village -- "and we are here to stem this invasion if we can. Will you help us?" A fixed look came over the native's face, as if he'd been briefed for this. "We know nothing of colonization, or of other worlds, if there be such. The legends say our ancestors came from the ground and might come again one day. In any case, we cannot help you fight." Egral stepped forward, making the native flinch. "You won't resist them? Even after they did this to you?" The Doyt said stubbornly, "This was a village of outcasts, insane ones, who resisted when they should have yielded." The four were silent for a minute. Then Fazzool asked, "Have others been taken captive?" The Doyt looked uncomfortable. "A few. The men from the ground wanted infants and took the parents along. They have not bothered us U# IF beyond that. We avoid the place from which they come." Steve asked, "Is that a large cave?" The Doyt said, "There were only the hills and the swamp. Then one day there was an explosion, and rocks and trees hurtling, and great ships of metal came out, rising without wings. We have guessed, the inside of the world must be hollow." Steve said, "This world is not hollow, nor do the invaders belong on it. They come from the stars and will enslave you and teach your children and your children's children to fight, enslaving still other worlds, of which there are no end. They have usurped the means by which your ancestors came." He turned to Egral. "I think it's obvious that Gree forces stumbled onto some ancient Effogan null link somewhere, tried it out, and found themselves here. Don't you?" Egrd, tail atwitch, growled, "I suppose so." He stared at the Doyt with disgust. "You, fellow. Now that you know we're not going to eat you, is there someone in authority?" The Doyt said mildly, "We are only a scouting band, temporarily bas in this valley. But tomorrow an Elder of the district will be here to talk to you. We had hoped you would not come this far; but since you have, I am to take you to our camp to wait. It is safer ere." IV T hat evening the four were in a tree hut assigned to them, two hundred feet above the ground, near the cliffs on one side of the valley. Steve, who'd spent much of the day talking to Doyt craftsmen, had a small section of one of the amazing wings. "The whole thing's honeycombed like this; that gives it strength. But all the alveoli, I guess you'd call them, are interconnected, so the air can distribute itself." Fazzool said, 'I did not hear much of ze chemistry, and what I heard I doubt. Did you get it straight?" "Roughly," Steve said. "It's related to the process by which the trees absorb nitrogen and carbon dioxide from the air to make protein. You pump air into the wing, and the tissue -- skin, cells, stiffeners and all -- absorbs it and stores it as semistable compounds. The smell we notice is traces of nitrous oxide. A wing can absorb up to fifteen per cent of its own weight of air, under pressure, and give it out again as the jets are used." Ralph, who was a little out of things since he didn't speak Effogan, said, "I still don't see how such gentle jets hold them up." Steve turned the section sideways. "See this raised part of the leading edge? There's a thin crack at the rear of it, running all along the wing. The jet -- a thin sheet of air, really -- blows back along the camber and creates lift. That's why they get such efficiency of a short wing and why they can hover without forward motion." He hefted the section with one finger. "The whole apparatus weighs less than ohe-fourth as much as the Doyt flying it." Ralph said, "Even so, if they want to hold altitude or climb, they must run out of pressure before long." "Not too soon," Steve said. "Those hand grips are little pumps, as well as controls. The Doyt keeps squeezing them as he flies. Thafs what makes their hands so strong. The pump valves are the only metal parts in the whole assembly." Ralph grinned in his beard. 'Td like to take a bunch of these people back to Earth and start a dairy. They could really milk cows!" Egral, who was stretched along the limb that bisected the floor, reluctant to trust his weight to the latter despite assurances, said, "And you mean to tell us they don't need any adhesive? Just join the parts and let them grow together?" "Right," Steve said, "the same way they oin these floors, walls, and ceilings. Of course there's techrdque involved. To get a perfect joint, the cutting has to be accurate. Then for an hour or so the parts have to be held in place and kept warm and moist. It beats gluing, though." Egral said, "I'll stick to metal and welding." Fazzool got to his feet and bounced up and down on the flexible floor, as if it were a trampoline, making Steve and Ralph grab for handholds. "Zis is not to be sneezed at. Especially when ze same trees grow meat for you, right outside ze door." Egral scowled. "A remarkable botanical science, I admit. Too bad they haven't turned it to weapons. Steve, how do you plan to handle the Elder who's coming?" Steve shrugged. "I'll have to play it by ear. Maybe I'll give .him a good rundown on the galactic situation and let him think about it for a day or two before I put any pressure on him." #T am Jubbelyn." X The Elder was as lean and cordy as if braided of rope, his skin not young but tauter and healthier than one might expect from his white chin beard and near-naked scalp, the latter accentuating the vestigial horns. His black eyes were alert but calm as he surveyed the four. Steve said, "We're honored. No doubt you already know our names and our mission." The hint of a smile crossed the wrinkled face. "Everything has been reported. Forgive me if I comprehend slowly. We are sorry your ship was destroyed, but rejoice that you survived. If there is any concern in your minds that we will betray you to your enemies, please bani it. You may take refuge among us if you wish; or, should you prefer, we will lead you to some hidden valley far from here, where you may live out your lives in peace." Steve tried not to stare. Could the native be this innocent? Or Wias this a gentle hint that they shouldn't make trouble? He said slowly, "I don't think you understand the situation. Gree will not let anyone live in peace, on this world or any other he can conquer, except the slavery that he calls peace. We speak of Gree, from habit, as a person; but these invaders from outside the galaxy are not humanoids nor even animals. They are artificial beings of IF metal, without emotions as you and I think of emotions. The humanoids who serve them are Slaves, so completely indoctrinated from birth that their devotion is fanatical to the death. The symbol called Gree is not an actual being, but a half-alive simulacrum controlled by a metal being. The physical appearance of that ghoul is copied from remaining statues of the oldest humanoid race in this galaxy -- the Men of Effogus, your own ancestors. The fraud is an effort to cash in on lingering legends among other races." Jobbelyn said calmly, "Are you quite sure you yourselves have not been misled as to the nature and intent of your enemies?" Steve, a little nonplussed, gestured toward Fazzool. "Ask him. He was born a Slave.  spent years in that role, as a spy. We know." The Doyt sighed, shifted his position on e floor limb and stared out at the busy jungle. Presently he faced Steve and said, almost sadly, "It appears to me you are as fanatical as those you fight. I wonder if you can answer me frankly -- are you out of touch with your own forces? Do they know where you are?" Steve decided there was nothing to be gained by evasion. 'They know exactly where we are. And we have means of reporting to them." Jobbelyn brooded over that for a minute. "That is as we feared. What we can expect, then, is a war on our planet -- your side attacking the Base, their side defending?" "I'm afraid so. But there is this difference # -- we won't enslave you." T he Elder made a gesture of gentle rejection. "I don't doubt your sincerity. But the others have promised the same thing. They treat us almost as children, but with a hint of respect. Perhaps they secretly admire our peaceful natures." Steve said, "Don't be deceived. They have to be gentle with you for tlie moment because of your appearance -- clearly similar to the one they've chosen as the Gree symbol. Otherwise, they'd have trouble with the Slaves. But the Overseers know the deception; they aren't Slaves, but a race whose treason has been bought. And they will be your masters, when the planet's secured." Jubbelyn sighed again. "I cannot dispute you. But we have discussed this thing, and our decision is to remain neutral. We will try to do nothing to anger either side. We region, up to a radius of a full hundred miles. We hope you and the others will confine your war to that area, and that whichever side wins will keep its promises." Steve stared in disbelief and bafflement. A hundred miles? When even a hasty hit-and-run attack might devastate half the planet? But if he told Jubbelyn that, it would sound like a threat. Slowly he said, "Why do you think the invaders have taken infants? Already they're starting a creche!" Jubbelyn smiled. "If you are right, they wiU be disappointed. Violence was bred out of our natures countless generations ago. We do not even kill for food -- and I have been told you do." He got to his feet. "I must be leaving, to report this talk to my colleagues. I thank you for your hooesty. Should you reconsider your plans, our offer still remains. We can give you happy lives. Not all our settlements are primitive villages. The are cities of many thousands, with theaters and games and museums, and other diversions. You may work or play or simply relax, as you choose. Perhaps we can even build you wings. If not, there are riding' animals, and ships for sea travel, and a great variety of climates and geographies. Please give it thought. And now, excuse me." V E gral, ears twitching at the night sounds, paced gingerly around the edge of the floor and climbed inte the bisecting limb. "I don't see that we have the right," he told Steve severely, "to worry about the welfare of these people. You've reminded me often enough that the galaxy is at stake." Ralph put in, "You were ready enough to sacrifice Earth, if necessary." eve scowled at the bearded man. "I wasn't ready at all. There was nothing I could do except try to save her.  was on Earth too at the time, don't forget. I don't say we have to shirk our mission here. All I say is, we ought to think hard before we deliberately involve the Doyt. Fazzool, you were going to nose around for Doyt weapons. Did you see any?" Fazzool spread his gray hands. "What is a weapon? A matter of employment, is it not? Zey have knives, of good steel zey make zemselves. Zey have fireworks -- zose were described to me -- so zey have gunpowder, at least. And zey drop noise-bombs, and bombs wiz ammonia and ozzer gasses, to drive dangerous animals away. Also -- zo I did not see it -- zere is a dartthrower zat uses ze plant chemistry to build up gas pressure to shoot ze dart. Zey have darts zat will merely sting like ze devil, or darts to put you to sleep. Zey use zose on ze few criminals who resist banishment." Steve said, "I wanted to ask Jubbelyn more about that, but didn't get a chance. What about the criminals? Are there many? Is there a police force?" Fazzool drew his feet up under him. "I had quite a talk wiz ze same Doyt zat first met us. Zis group here belongs to a sort of constabulary. To belong to it, a Doyt must be very much against violence and only Zat is rare, and even zen zey use ze sleep-darts or gas and do not kill. constabularies of different districts have only voluntary co-operation between zem. Ze criminals are a very small percentage." ' Steve grunted. "I almost wish we'd run into savages instead. Do you suppose we could find a few of the criminals?" Fazzool grinned. "Ze Gree garrison had zat idea first. Ze local ones are already rounded up. Maybe ze Overseers intend zem for breedingstock." "Yeah," Steve muttered. "All IF right; suppose we tricked the garrison into a couple of punitive bombings on real cities. Do you think that Doyt would fight back?" Fazzool shook his head. "A few individuals, maybe. As a society, no." Egral said impatiently, "Even so, a little resistance here and there might create the confusion we need." Steve said, "Maybe. But the Doyt might catch on quick that we'd arpersonally, to take a bigger risk if we can avoid using the Doyt. Egral, I can't demand the same of you, but I can ask. If you'd seen as many happy, peaceful races dragged in as I have..." The Remm scowled. "Colonel Duke, you have a very under-handed way of making a person's decency oppose his better judgment. I'll agree as far as personal risk is concerned. But it's my home world that's the soft, nearby target, and I can't risk that. I insist that, whatever we do, we have an alternate plan involving the Doyt, to switch to if necessary." Steve glanced at Fazzool and Ralph, who nodded. "Fair enough. Now, how about concrete suggestions?" Fazzool said, "Well, zere's nozzing like ambushing a ground patrol in a swamp to start creating confusion." T he backpack interfered with Steve's movements. He coiled the scaling-rope and tossed again. This time, as the rope slid back, the improvised hook caught the limb above him. He went up hand-overhand and hauled himself, grunting with effort, onto the limb. One of the parchment-winged birds, apparently undecided between curiosity and indignation, hovered with quick little wing strokes a few feet away, squawking tentatively, its reptilian head cocking at various angles. Steve coiled the rope and stuffed it into his pack. It wasn't comfortable, sitting here a hundred feet up, knowing he daren't use the grav to break a fall, this close to the Base. He straddled the limb and got his back against the trunk. A bugle sounded faintly, back the way they'd oome. It worried him that the Doyt had followed this far. Neither was he satisfied with his view of the trail below, but he didn't have all day to find a better spot. For that matter, there wasn't much of the day left. He glanced up to make sure he had head clearance beneath the nearest of the pendant fruit. A complaining of birds began a little way up the trail. That would be Ralph, climbing to his perch. Fazzool -- less vulnerable, with his thick skin, to a hasty rake of a hand-beamer -- was already set, at ground level. Steve frowned at his watch. If Egral, scouting the patrol, let himself be seen or heard too far away, the ambush wouldn't oome off. The birds settled down again to their late afternoon feeding. Lizards climbed about nimbly. Now that he was used to the clinic odor of the trees, it was rather pleasant. Somewhere at the edge of hearing, the foghorn-voiced animal boomed. He looked at his watch again and began to feel tense. He wiped his palms on the uniform he'd donned and drew his handgun. This waiting before action was always agony. It was five or six minutes later that he heard B'lant voices. He took in a deep uncomfortable breath and tried to control his trembling. The leader of the patrol -- a B'lant Gunner Second, wearing a visor cap instead of the uncomfortable standard hehnet -- came into sight. His blunt features were bored; his heavy beamer carried loosely over a forearm. Steve fretted. Would they all have heavy guns? Then the next B'lant came into sight: a Gunner Third, no doubt in command, with only a bolstered pistol. The one following him, and the two humans next in file, also had only handguns. The B'lant bringing up the rear had another heavy beamer. Steve let out his breath and gulped in another. Where was Egral? An animal sound, more a whuff of surprise than a growl, made the patrol spin as one man. The rear guard jerked up his beamer, then lowered it. Steve raised his pistol. The Gunner, Third, spoke for teen. We've just sighted a large, black animal of a new species! We only got a glimpse, but -- " S teve's weapon spat incandescence. The B'lant's voice choked off, and he went down. Now pencils of fire lanced in from other directions. One of the men ran a few steps, screaming, before he dropped; the olhers died faster, with cries on their lips. Steve had deliberately waited to hear die patrol commander's voice. Now he tried to imitate it. "Sixteen! Four of the beasts attacked and we -- " He fired the pistol again and let out a muffled cry, then dove off the limb, harness grav turned on. He could risk it now, with aircars surely converging, masking the electronic spill. He landed and ran toward the scene of the massacre. Fazzool was already there, stripping equipment from corpses, tucking under them and distributing around small objects. Egral galloped up. "Hurry -- something coming down from high up!" Steve finished equipping himself and plunged down the trail as Egral raced off in the other direction. He heard Fazzool and Ralph pounding after him. He fumbled at the pocketradio in his left hand, got a Gree channel. An Overseers' voice was snarling commands, directing aircars toward the ambush. A car reported, "This is AP Twelve, landing. Will send eight men along the trail, ready to shoot." Steve ran a little while longer, then turned off the trail and went very slowly, paralleling it. His two companions caught up. Presently he heard the eight troopers going by. The aircar was in a clearing from which several trails diverged. Steve halted where he could just see the four helmeted occupants, glanced around at Fazzool and Ralph, signaled and moved away to set up a crossfire. He found himself a spot and hesitated. He was calm now that action had begun, but this was a ticklish moment. The four in the aircar had to die quickly. IP He aimed and sent lightning at the one in the pilot's seat. Two of the four touted words before they died. Steve was already plunging forward. He siboved his dead pilot aside and spoke hurriedly into the radio grill: "AP Twelve! We just saw one of the strange animals and wounded it! Shall we pursue?" There was a pause of fifteen seconds. Then the Overseer's voice said, "AP Twelve, stay in your vehicle and wait for your squad. You are the only car close by." The order didn't quite ring true to Steve. He shot a look at Fazzool, who shook his head. Steve grabbed heavy beamers, tossed them to Fazzool and Ralph, leaned into the car to get extra energy-units. "Let's get out of here!" The radio was silent now. That meant, of course, the ruse was discovered. Cursing mentally, Steve sloshed through mud, wide of the path, but toward the Base. The only hope now -- a faint one -- was that Egral's various diversions would draw the search away. A cluster of explosions rocked the swamp. That would be the radiolinked booby traps Fazzool had set around the original ambush. Steve swore. Now that didn't seem such a good idea -- it clearly revealed technology. Fazzool whispered, "We must hide somewhere near ze Base and hope for a chance to sneak in later! It would be suicide now!" Steve nodded, slogging on. He hoped Egral was still galloping upcountry, not pausing to reconnoiter. Would the Remm guess, from the radio silence, that things were sour akeiady? No doubt. But what could he do? He could go through with the tricks to implicate the Doyt. But he wouldn't, Steve felt, so long as there was hope. He'd stick to the promise Steve, in his squeamishness, had extracted. Steve tried his radio, hoping for another channel, but there was none. How was the garrison co-ordinating? And why hadn't any of Egral's fake messages come over? An aircar whooshed over, headed up country. Maybe the Remm was already dead, or surrounded and pinned down. Fazzool -- obviously thinking along the same lines -- said, "Maybe Egral has decided it would be foolish now to break ze silence." Steve didn't answer. He was busy trying to find solid footing. Ralph -- the best woodsman of the three -- suddenly jerked into motion. His primitive pistol roared. VI S omething zipped by Steve's cheek. A dart! At once, a slight, greenclad body came tumbling to thud nearby. Steve leaped for cover, frantically scanning the trees overhead. Fazzoo lunged for the Doyt corpse, came dragging it to the root tangle. "He has a pistol too, so he was wiz Gree! He used ze dart because zey want us alive!" Somewhere, a bugle talked. So that was how the garrison was communicating. Steve gave the trees another quick scrutiny, then was running again -- not toward the Base, nor away from iti but laterally, as silently as he could, sacrificing speed for cover. This) the least purposeful direction, offered the best chance of evading the immediate search at least until dark. Night wasn't long coming. Now they picked their way cautiously until there was no sound of aircars or bugles, then found cover beneath roots. Steve asked softly, "Anyone see more than the one Doyt?" Ralph Parr said, "No. If there were more, we've lost them by now." "That's not the point." Steve paused, listening. "So far that Doyt's the only one who's seen us, unless there were others with him. So the garrison still may not know we're humanoid. That makes it possible for us to go on with the original plan of sneaking in as survivors -- if there's some more confusion. By now, the Overseers must realize the Remm are involved, whether they actually know the Remm body shape or not. Maybe later tonight... Fazzool said, "#e is not zat much time. Zey will pick up Doyt asd make zem tell." Steve swore. "Well, then -- if we can get beyond the Base, into the hills, maybe we can sneak into a relief crew for a missile emplacement, or something. But first I've got to get off a message to the Remm that things are busted open." He fumbled in his pack for an object like a very large cigar; pulled it in two, spoke at length into one half, reunited it, gave it two twists and tossed it away from him. "That will null in twenty minutes. Let's move!" I t was slow going. When the drone nulled, the implosion was disheaiteningly near. Steve speeded up to the point of recklessness. An hour dragged by as they jogged on, splashing throu mud, panting for breath. Aircars whooshed over, listening, no doubt, for any electronic spill. Suddenly the radio came to life. "I have seen one of the creatures! They are not primitive animals, but advanced beings! He was carrying -- " A blast drowned out the voice. Then the radio was silent again. Ralph whispered, "Hell. Did they get Egral with a grenade or something?" Fazzool chuckled, "Za w Egral talking. Ze fake was meant to be transparent; zat is why he did not identify. But it was probably a delayed transmission. Ze question is, why?" Steve said, 'To keep up the confusion. He gave away no information, but the Overseers will have to consider a lot ofthings. Tlie message could be genuine. Or it might be intended merely to pinpoint a spot, for other commandos or a landing. Or just to establish co-ordinates. And the missiles will have to be manned, against possible attack from space. And ships will have to null off." Fazzool said, "Ah! Overload ze garrison! Good scheming, for a linguist!" "A linguist," Steve said, "who's served with a Task Force. Well, we have to get somewhere while the bustle's on." He peered ahead for sound footing. Minutes later, a boom came disIF tantly, then a series. Ships nulling hastily from stratosphere -- all using up personnel. But there was a bad feature. With a defending fleet around the planet, the Remm might have no time for niceties. A few yards farther along, light suddenly burst above the trio. B lindly, Steve hurled himself for the nearest low root. Other light flares bloomed all over the area, descending very slowly on gravs. A loudspeaker grated, "Stay with your units and don't lose oontacti There are only a few, but they move fast!" The tone of the voice changed. "You, whatever you are! If you want to live, show yourselves, without weapons I" Steve squirmed cautiously into better shooting position, the heavy beamer resting over his left forearm. If they were staying in squads, that was fine. He'd wait until he saw them, then rake the whole squad. He hoped Ralph and Fazzool would stay hidden until they got good targets, too -- not sell their lives in foolish heroics. He wasn't particular scared; he could bury the primitive emotion in his belly. But he couldn't banish the regret or the despair, or the shame of failure. If he hadn't been squeamish about the Doyt... A Slave Warrior suddenly cried out in surprise. Then the jungle erupted. Darts rained. Somewhere, soft plops marked the bursting of gasbombs. The shocked Gree troc were firing wildly into the trees, bringing down a torrent of debris. An Overseer, shouting, ran into sight, clutching at his cheek, and collapsed. A flare dropped, weighted down by some kind of hooped net. The radio babbled now. Bugles blew purposefully Steve squirmed free of the root and was running, away from where the gas bombs had fallen. "Ral! Fazzool!" He hurdled prone Warriors, some still stirring. A big dark form bounded into his path. "Quick!" Egral snarled. "We have an aircar for you!" D espite the confusion in the swamp, the garrison was reacting efficiently. Aircars were landing to unload casualties, re-equip, and take off again with full crews. Blinker-ligjhts were being mounted on some craft, for signalling. Flamethrowers were being hustled to the crews, and crates of antipersonnel bombs. Fazzool pointed. "Zat looks like de-briefing!" Steve set the aircar down in the lighted area. Troops covered them with beamers during a careful scrutiny, then they were urged forward. An Overseer demanded, "Where's your squad leader?" "D-dead," Steve told him. "Some weapon that made no noise and no tight! He -- his head just exploded!" The Overseer's scowl deepened. "How did you two survive?" Steve touched his own cheek. "A dart grazed me, and I collapsed. I guess they thought I was dead. When I came to I saw him -- " he indicated Fazzool -- "stumbling around. He's still dazed. The area was deserted, so I got him to a car and took off." Fazzool mumbled, "Something big and black... it knocked me down from behind. My head " The Overseer demanded of Steve, "Did you see the attackers?" "Yes, sir. Two of them, anyway." He described Egral. "Remm," the Overseer growled. "It must be. So they have six limbs? Did you see any vehicles?" "N-no, sir. But there was a humming in the trees." "Damnation! Well, get your squadmate to Med Center, then you report to the general pool." The Overseer turned away. Steve pretended to help Fazzool until they were out of sight, then they ran toward two great wooden doors that closed a fresh scar in a hiUslde. Guards blocked the way. Steve said, "Orders to man a ship!" The leading trooper demanded, "When was that. Gunner? Everything scrambled an hour ago!" Steve said, "More nulling in, with short crews!" "Oh." the guard stepped aside; motioned to a trooper to open a small door in the large one. Steve plunged in, Fazzool at his heels. T he ancient terminal had obviously been hollowed from the hill, with a short tunnel to the exit. The blast that had opened that had damaged nothing else. For a moment Steve paused, fascinated by the unfamiliar look of the vast null-tank, then he strode toward a Tech who seemed to be in charge. "Why aren't preparations going on? Where are the munitions?" The Tech -- a thick-muscled, phlegmatic Gjiss -- blinked. "Preparations? I don't understand." Steve glared. "Why don't you listen for orders? There are ships coming in, and they need missiles and power units! Where's yoiu: Section Leader?" The Gjiss looked slowly disturbed. "He was called away for Patrol Duty. They left us short handed, and..." Steve snarled, "All right! Where's the arsenal? Can you at least start getting C-#'s out here? Is there a conveyor system?" "Er, no. Gunner, not yet. We use carts." "Get about it, then. Don't you know there's a battle shaping? Where are the power units?" "In there. Gunner." The Tech pointed to a tunnel. Steve and Fazzool ran toward the tunnel. Recently installed sliding doors lined one side. Fazzool pointed. "Zat one!" The B'lant jabbed a button, and the door slid open. Lights went on in the compartment. Steve muttered thanks for someone's efficiency. Units were already on carts, ready for call. He and Fazzool shoved one out. The Techs were just bringing a heavy missile on a long, low cart. Steve hesitated in the mouth of the tunnel, handgun ready. He sighed. He'd already used up his quota of squeamishness for this trip. He fired efficiently, Fazzool's beam joining his. Only one of the Techs managed an outcry. Steve crouched a moment, staring toward the exit, than ran toward the null tank. Stepping over the corpses, he studied the controls. Symbols in B'lant and English had been stenciled on them. Simple enough. He darted toward the missile cart. "Let's get this inside!" They put the missile in the tank, then trundled the power unit in beside it. The missile would serve as timer and detonator; the unit would provide the awful energy to slag the tank. Fazzool said, "We could null zis gift somewhere first, zen blow up zis end." "No time!" Steve was working frantically at the fuse-settings. He finished, shoved Fazzool out ahead of him. "Hurry!" He leaped for the tank controls and stood fidgeting until the mighty steel doors began to grind shut, then ran for the exit tunnel. If the guards held them up now... He glanced at his watch, forced himself to stand inside the small door for ten seconds. Fazzool, delighted with the suspense, grinned at him. Then Steve pounded on the door. A bolt rattled outside, and the guard peered in. Steve barked, "Get a med team with a stretcher!" The guard leaned in to stare around. Fazzool jerked him forward and got a hand to his throat. The guard reacted fast, but Steve's knife was ready. They dragged the body inside, then ran out, shouting, "Guns! Take cover! The enemy is nulling in!" Everyone within earshot turned to stare. Steve dove for the nearest cover, a small concrete bunker. Fazzool landed on top of him. There were shouts and pounding footsteps, then nothing else. Steve held his breath. Had they failed? Then the universe seemed to explode. The bunker floor heaved, banging his head against a wall. Da:, he fumbled in a pocket, brought out a message-drone, pulled it apart, grasped into it, 'Mission accomplied... null tank destroyed." Debris rained on the bunker-roof. Somehow he got the drone reunited and tossed it out. In the bedlam, he couldn't hear it null. T here was nothing wrong with him that a good slug of Remm medicinal alcohol didn't remedy. One of the huge dumbbell-shaped Remm ships was pouring out more occupation personnel. The Base was secure; enemy survivors were still being hunted down, but they were no problem. Jubbelyn, looking tired and bewildered, was answering Fazzool's question. "No, it was nothing that you or your friends did that changed our mis. It was the garrison's use of our own people against you, and finally against us. In one summer -- less, in some cases -- Gree's psychologists were able to make not only traitors, but actual killers, out of them! And not only the outcast. The perfectly normal people w'ho were taken, too." He was silent for a minute. "I guess I shouldn't have been surprise when, one by one, my own constables forsook the ban when I saw the first of them pick up an enemy weapon and use it deliberately... Yet, before the fight was over, I was doing it myself." Steve said, "I hope your casualties were few." IF The Elder sighed. "We had casualties. But what hurts is what we've been forced to learn about ourselves." Egral said, "Knowing that civilization is a state of mind needn't cause you to abandon it." Jubbelyn shook his head -- a gesture he'd just learned. "No, we cannot retreat back into our dream now, knowing what rages among the stars." He got to his feet, looking listlessly around for his flying apparatus. "I must go and start organizing relief. Some of our cities were punished." Egral said to Steve, "To answer your earlier question, I was able to follow your progress pretty well and guess it, by listening to the enemy search. Then, when I'd fixed up a few diversions here and there, I simply called out to the Doyt that I knew they were watching me and explained frankly what might happen to their world if you couldn't destroy the null terminal. They'd discovered by that time that some of their own race were being used as scouts. They decided to take a limited part. I told fhem what weapons and tactics they'd be up against. By the time we organized the party to come look for you, they'd already had their illusions knocked out of them." He glanced toward a squad of Remm probing through rubble. "It's too bad there wasn't some way we could trace the other end of that null link before destroying this end. It seems my superiors have a whole new system of fleet operations and materiel. They made fairly short work of the defending Gree ships. There are a few still to be hunted down, of course." Steve said, "That's not all. There was more than one setting on that null tank. The ancient race must have had a whole network of planets connected with this one, and no doubt Gree sent scouting forces, at least, to all of them." He glanced at Fazzool and Ralph Parr. "I suppose we'll be staying here near the Hub for a while, to do some sniffing around." Egral yawned like a great feline. "Sniffing around? With your noses? If there's a network of worlds to be scouted, some of them will have inhabitants. I'm sure my superiors will agree that you need a linguist along." If You're a Subscriber --  -- and if the address on your subscription copies does not contain your Zip Code number -- please drop us a line to let us know what it is. And If You Aren't -- Why Not Subscribe Today? Dear Editor: I wonder how many readers noticed one of the interesting touches that Bertram Chandler put into "Edge of Night?" I would probably have missed it myself if I had not waited until I had both installments and read the work in one sitting. When the C or amr Destroyer returns from its mission in the other universe, it is not exactly the same ship, nor are its crew precisely the same people. Note: on page eleven of the first installment Sonya is described as having pale blonde hair; in the short, final chapter she has red ihair. The reader is left to speculate to what other ways the protagonists have been changed by their Mannschenn drive. Masterful! In the "Hue and Cry" John Banner suggests that you should reprint old pulp covers as a possible improvement over some of the current atrocities. Mr. Sanner obviously is not familiar with the old pulp covers. Save for the conspicuous absence of a scantily clad "sexy babe" a number of your recent covers have come right from a lateforties copy of Startling or ThrilU ing Wonder, In fact, by carefully going through my file of these two magazines I could probably come up with some covers that are both better done and illustrate more closely the stories that your covers supposedly illustrate. -- Carrington B. Dixon, Jr., #I Sylvan Drive, Garland, Texas #.    Dear Editor: After I finished reading Relief s War, I thought it was about the best novel Keith Laumer would ever put down. It had lots of fast-paced action, his typical oddball aliens and equally oddball humans, and good dialog. That was until I read Earthblood. All I associated Rosel George Brown with was some story in which an ostracized flower arranger, or whatever, and a four year old genius got involved with the roundest thing in the world... I think. I don't remember the title or where I read it; don't bother telling me where I can find this classic, I wish I never read in the first place. It was awful. Yea, verily! The name of Rosel George Brown drifted into the limbo of my subconscious. That was until I read Earthblood. (Gee, I never knew I could write like that.) When I started the first installment, I was slightly apprehensive about it due to the tenuony sinister recollection of Mr. Laiuner's collaborator. After the first diapter I thought it was terrific. No, not terrific. That term is too hackneyed to describe it. After careful consideration I would call it beautiful. Keith Laumer is my f avorite writer in The Genre. I always thought that he was a good writer but if he could turn out stories on his own like Earthblood, he would be a great writer. Perhaps Mr. Laumer will turn out material like Earthblood on his own. I nominate Earthblood for the Hugo award for the best serial of this or any other year. By the way several of my friends agree with me that the Retief stories would make a fine teevee series; infinitely better than the 'science fiction" series on today. What say you, Gentle Editor? -- Ivan Thoen, # Morelia Ave., Apt. #, North Hollywood, California #. # I say I agree with you -- but the TV producers Pve suggested it to apparently don't! -- Editor.    Dear Editor: Being a Robert A. Heinlein fan from way back, I have finally decided that I must make contact with other science-fiction connoiseurs with the same impeccable tastes. Having decided on the magazine that these type of people might read, I now make my plea: "Heinleinoids of the World, Come to My Aid... My Flame Is Flickering Fast... Help Me Contact the Others of My Own Species... I Will Join Any Club... Do Anything..." As you can see, I am not one of those I would also give anything to know the address of "The Great On so that I can write him. I would now like to tell the readers a trick which I have learned recentiiy on how to preserve paperbacks. I bought some transparent vinyl contact which is available in most dime-stores and cut it to size. It prevents cracks, peeling, banding, scraping etc. My library of S.F. is one of the best preserved of any addict I know. -- Matthew Venable, # W. Hazelhurst, Ferndale, Michigan #.   Dear Editor: Your stories in World of If have been almost uniformly and increasingly good, and they seem to be getting even better. Even so, I have a complaint. While the stories are good, the art work you carry is almost uniformly bad. If you can lafford stories from writers of the qualiify of Heinlein, Anderson and Laumer, surely you can get some art work of the same quality. I have not yet been able to understand the goal or policy of your art editor. Surely Fantasy and Science Fiction and Analog do not have a monojKily controlling the artists they feature (who are just as good as yours are bad). Schoenherr, Freas and Bonestell, to name just a few, ail do excellent work. As a critical reader I believe that the quality of art work you feature, esiecially the cover piece, has a great effect on the way the magazine is received. With art work to match the quality of stories you carry, your sales might go up, giving you a chance to improve your stories even more. -- Whitney Enox, # Granada, Prairie Village, Kansas #. Dear Editor: Read with interest your editorial on prediction of futures hy the seems to ibe a built in lag of about a decade -- probably attributable to the latent "fear" factw. Fear of change will cause the prophet to push events off, usually by a constant "force", yielding a limited range of "effective push". A group would tend to show a similar paired constant and variable. The IQ-passing computer will be built between # and #. I don't know the exact year, but first successful run of the program will be in the Fall. Autolang translators was the paneVs closest guess. Will be used at an international meeting in the summer of #. Come now, # for the wide access general data facility? Hell, the facility will open to limited public use early in #. Manned landing on Mars will be #. And the economic minimum agreements will be a lot sooner than #. Most of the world population will be included by # -- and provisions for the rest will already be underway. # the actual agreement in world council. Trouble with the "median" method they're using is that the average prophet isn't very good. Ability isn't on a Maxwell curve, but a skewed to the weak curve. Education in the areas involved doesn't necessarily help. It's like the difference between recognition and use vocabulary tests. The ability is far less dependent upon information stored than on the resolving power of the mind in a particular area. -- Gene Fowler, # Baker Street, San Francisco, California #. trol experiments on questions with known answers. Median was more accurate than any individual. -- Editor,    Dear Editor: I have just finished Earthblood, and I thought that it was one of the two most pointless serials I have ever seen in your magazine. In the last part, it gave a strong impression that all this Roan Corpeople, throwing them through walls, getting drunk and similar highly thalamic activities. I could find traces of Retief's A-line, but almost none of the talent shown in the Retief stories. There not only was no Retiefian humor, but there was none of the atmosphere of weirdness that hangs through such works as The Hounds of HelL In short, Earthblood was a complete dud. Silkies in Space, aside from its title, which brings to mind images of all sorts of space opera, was very good. When the fact that two Van Vogt stories were out at the same time is considered, a highly attractive conduaion is the Van Vogt is going to start turning stories out in volume. It is to be hoped that this is so. I can hardly wait to read this third Null-A novel. On the basis of the two Null-A novels that are already out, it should be the longest of the three and the best. Have you any idea of when it will be out? -- John Hoggatt, # W. #th St., L.A., Calif.  VV's working on TV scripts, but will get back to the Null-A novel shortly. -- Editor. Official Rand McNally Map taken from actual photos of the moon. This circular Map Puzzle shows mountains, craters, seas, basins and valleys, with frame containing information about eclipses, tides, and seasons. Map when completed ##" x #Vi". Made of heavy cardboard and diecut. fbo o o o o o o. # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, il any. No. CM-# by Cullen Rapp No. CX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of eoch book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it!  'WWv# . Seated :Bennett Cerf, Faith Baldwin, Bergen Evans, Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff. Standing: Mark Wiseman, Max Shulman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith, Rod Serling. "We're looking for people who want to write" By Gordon Carroll Director, Famous Writers School. Former editor, Reader's Digest, Time, Inc., Coronet If you want to write, my colleagues and I would like to test your writing aptitude. We'll help you find out if you can be trained to become a successful writer. Several years ago, we started the Famous Writers School. Our aim was to help qualified people acquire the skills they need to break into print. We poured everything we knew about writing into a new kind of professional training course, which you take at home and in your free time. After a solid grounding in fundamentals, you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice -- Fiction, Non-Fiction, Advertising or Business Writing. Each of your writing assignments is examined by instructors who are themselves professional writers or editors. Your instructor spends up to two hours analyzing your work. He blue-pencils corrections right on it -- much as an editor does with established writers. Then he returns it to you with a long personal letter of advice and specific recommendations. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to more than # publications including Reader's Digest , True, Redbook. Stephen Novak of Wayne, N. J., says, "I just received a check from Ellery Queen s Mystery Magazine . That's I I stories sold in six months." Doris Stebbins of S. Coventry, Conn., who has sold six stories to Woman's Day for # writes, "Taking your Course has made it all possible." Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you can benefit from this training, send for the School's Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing ability you may enroll. But there is no obligation to do so. r Famous Writers School Dept. #, Westport Connecticut # I want to know if I have writing aptitude. Please mail me, free, your Writing Aptitude Test and #-page illustrated brochure. Mr. Mrs Age Miss Circle one and please print Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. Vol. #, N. # Frederik Pohl, Editor David Perton, Production Manager Robert M. Guinn , Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin , Associate Editor Mavis Fisher , Circulation Director by Isaac Asimov by Roger Zelazny by Larry Niven by Algis Budrys by Harlan Ellison by Joseph Wesley by Rosco Wright by Betsy Curtis by L. Sprague de Camp by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # Issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, Includr ing translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons Is coincidental. Printed in the U.S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York. N.Y. # IF  Editorial L ast Labor Day weekend, at the Cleveland World Science Fiction Convention, If was awarded the trophy called the "Hugo" -- a polished chromium spaceship mounted on a wood base, suitably inscribed -- as the leading sciencefiction magazine in the world. To celebrate, we decided to collect as many of our fellow Hugowinners in one issue as we could... and this is the issue. With us, therefore, axe: Isaac Asimov, who won the Hugo for "best all-time science-fiction series" with his Foundation stories; Harlan Ellison, who won the short-story Hugo for "Repent, Harlequin " Cried the Tick-Tock Man, originally published in Galaxy; And Roger Zelazny, who shared the best novel Hugo in a tie with Frank Herbert. We had also hoped to have Frank Herbert and this year's Hugo-winning Artist, Frank Frazetta, but fate and bad luck conspired against us. Frazetta at the last moment was deluged with priority assignments and couldn't complete his cover; Herbert, recovering from a seige of hospitalization, has a story for us but not in time for this issue. We regret their absence, but we're proud to have Asimov, Zelazny and Ellison with us... and for lagniappe we've added a short poem by the convention's Guest of Honor, L. Sprague de Camp. A ll this is our way of saying "Thanks!" for the Hugo. We'll go on saying thanks the best way we can, by trying, to bring you the best stories to be had. Van Vogt will be back with us before long; A. Bertram Chandler will be with us next issue; after that we've got first-rate novelettes and short novels by Philip Jose Farmer, Hal Clements, Samuel R. Delany and -- oh, yes -- Andre Norton, appearing in If in the June issue with a complete short novel called Warlock's World. Anybody we're missing? Let us know -- and we'll try to get them too! -- The Editor Moskowitz completes his definitive study of Science Fiction. This is the last in a four-volume series that critically surveys the major writers of science fiction during the past three hundred years and anthologizes representative examples of their work. Included in this distinguished collection are "Voyage to the Moon" by Cyrano de Bergerac, "Eternal Adam" by Jules Verne, "The Country of the Blind" by H. G. Wells, "The Los Amigos Fiasco" by A. Conan Doyle, and Stanley G. Weinbaum's "The Lotus Eaters." # pages#'# Masters of Modern Science Fiction "... devotes individual chapters to #I authors... fills a void in our knowledge of current writers..." # pages# -- Library Journal Shapers of Science Fiction "One could not want a more detailed and fascinating account... no one has surveyed the roots of science fiction as well as Mr. Moskowitz; probably no one ever will; possibly, no one can." # pages# -- Galaxy... an exceptionally fine job of showing how modern science fiction developed..." -- Analog jSgjiV # pages# Cleveland and New York IF  Novelette The I often. Maybe it was because he had so great a mind that it didn't work J ames Priss -- I suppose I ought quickly. to say Professor James Priss, He would say something in slow though everyone is sure to know abstraction, then he would think, who I meaqreven without the title -- and then he would say something always spoke slowly. more. Even over trivial matters, his I know. I interviewed him often giant mind would hover uncertainly, enough. He had the greatest mind adding a touch here and then ansi nee Einstein, but it didn't work other there. quickly. He admitted his slowness Would the sun rise tomorrow, I can imagine him wondering. What do we mean by "rise"? Can we be certain that tomorrow will come? Is the term "sun" completely unambiguous in this connection? Add to this habit of speech a bland countenance, rather pale, with no expression except for a general look of uncertainty; gray hair, rather thin, neatly combed; business suits of an invariably conservative cut; and you have what Professor James Priss was -- a retiring person, completely lacking in magnetism. That's why nobody in the world, except myself, could possibly suspect him of being a murderer. And even I am not sure. After all, he was slow-thinking; he was always slowthinking. Is it conceivable that at one crucial moment, he managed to think quickly and act at once? It doesn't matter. Even if he murdered, he got away with it. It is far too late now to try to reverse matters, and I wouldn't succeed in doing so even if I decided to let this be published. E dward Bloom was Priss's classmate in college, and an associate through circumstance for a generation afterward. They were equal in age and in their propensity for the bachelor life, but opposites in everything else that mattered. Bloom was a living flash of light; colorful, tall, broad, loud, brash and self-confident. He had a mind that resembled a meteor-strike in the sudden and unexpected way it could seize the essential. He was no theoretician, as Priss was; Bloom had neither the patience for it, nor the capacity to concentrate intense thought upon a single abstract point. He admitted that. He boasted of it. What he did have was an uncanny way of seeing the application of a theory, of seeing the manner in which it could be put to use. In the cold marble block of abstract structure, he could see, without apparent difficulty, the intricate design of a marvelous device. The block would fall apart at his touch and leave the device. It is a well known story, and not too badly exaggerated at that, that nothing Bloom ever built had failed to work, or to be patentable, or to be profitable. By the time he was #, he was one of the richest men on Earth. And if Bloom the Technician were adapted to one particular matter more than anything else, it was to the way of thought of Priss the Theoretician. Bloom's greatest gadgets were built upon Priss's greatest thoughts, and as Bloom grew wealthy and famous, Priss gained phenomenal respect among his colleagues. Naturally, it was to be expected that when Priss advanced his TwoField Theory, Bloom would set about at once to build the first practical anti-gravity device. II M y job was to find human interest in the Two-Field Theory for the subscribers to Tele-News Press, and you get that by trying to deal with human beings and not with abstract ideas. Since my interviewee was Professor Priss, that wasn't easy. Naturally, I was going to ask about the possibilities of anti-gravity, which interested everyone; and not about the Two-Field Theory, which no one could understand. "Anti-gravity?" Priss compressed his pale lips and considered. "I'm not entirely sure that it is possible. Or ever will be. I haven't -- uh -- worked the matter out to my satisfaction. I don't entirely see whether the Two-Field equations would have a finite solution, which they would have to have, of course, if -- " And then he went off into a brown study. I prodded him. "Bloom says he thinks such a device can be built." Priss nodded. "Well, yes, but I wonder. Ed Bloom has had an amazing knack at seeing the unobvious in the past. He has an unusual mind. It's certainly made him rich enough." We were sitting in Priss's apartment. Ordinary middle-class. I couldn't help a quick glance this way and that. Priss was not wealthy. I don't think he read my mind. He saw me look. And I think it was on his mind. He said, "Wealth isn't the usual reward for the pure scientist. Or even a particularly desirable one." Maybe so, at that, I thought. Priss certainly had his own kind of reward. He was the third person in history to win two Nobel Prizes; and the first to have both of them in the sciences and both of them unshared. You can't complain about that. And if he wasn't rich, neither was he poor. But he didn't sound like a contented man. Maybe it wasn't Bloom's wealth alone that irked Priss. Maybe it was Bloom's fame among the people of Earth generally; maybe it was the fact that Bloom was a celebrity wherever he went, whereas Priss, outside scientific conventions and faculty clubs, was largely anonymous. I can't say how much of all this was in my eyes or in the way I wrinkled the creases in my forehead, but Priss went on to say, "But we're once or twice a week. I beat him regularly." (I never published that statement. I checked it with Bloom, who made a long counter-statement that bejackass -- " and grew increasingly personal thereafter. As a matter of fact, neither one was a novice at billiards. I watched them play once for a short while, after the statement and counter-statement, and both handled the cue with professional aplomb. What's more, both played for blood, and there was no friendship in the game that I could see.) I said, "Would you care to predict whether Bloom will manage to build an anti-gravity device?" "You mean would I commit myself to anything? Hmm. Well, let's consider, young man. Just what do we mean by anti-gravity? Our conception of gravity is built around Einstein's General Theory of Relativity, which is now a century and a half old but which, within its limits, remains firm. We can picture it -- " I listened politely. I'd heard Priss IF on the subject before, but if I was to get anything out of him -- which wasn't certain -- I'd have to let him work his way through in his own way. "We can picture it," he said, "by imagining the universe to be a flat, thin, super-flexible sheet of untearable rubber. If we picture mass as being associated with weight, as it is on the surface of the Earth, then we would expect a mass, resting upon the rubber sheet, to make an indentation. The greater the mass, the deeper the indentation. "In the actual universe," he went on, "all sorts of masses exist, and so our rubber sheet must be pictured as riddled with indentations. Any object rolling along the sheet would dip into and out of the indentations it passed, veering and changing direction as it did so. It is this veer and change of direction that we interpret as demonstrating the existence of a force of gravity. If the moving object comes close enough to the center of the indentation and is moving slowly enough, it gets trapped and whirls round and round that indentation. In the absence of friction, it keeps up that whirl forever. In other words, what Isaac Newton interpreted as a force, Albert Einstein interpreted as geometrical distortion." H e paused at this point. He had been speaking fairly fluently -- for him -- since he was saying something he had said often before. But now he began to pick his way. He said, "So in trying to produce anti-gravity, we are trying to alter the geometry of the universe. If we carry on our metaphor, we are trying to straighten out the indented rubber sheet. We could imagine ourselves getting under the indenting mass and lifting it upward, supporting it so as to prevent it from making an indentation. If we make the rubber sheet flat in that way, then we create a universe -- or at least a portion of the universe -- in which gravity doesn't exist. A rolling body would pass the non-indenting mass without altering its direction of travel a bit, and we could interpret this as meaning that the mass was exerting no gravitational force. In order to accomplish this feat, however, we need a mass equivalent to the indenting mass. To produce anti-gravity on Earth in this way, we would have to make use of a mass equal to that of Earth and poise it above our heads, so to speak." I interrupted him. "But your TwoField Theory -- " "Exactly. General Relativity does not explain both the gravitational field and the electromagnetic field in a single set of equations. Einstein spent half his life searching for that single set -- for a Unified Field Theory -- and failed. All who followed Einstein also failed. I, however, began with the assumption that there were two fields that could not be unified and followed the consequences, which I can explain, in part, in terms of the rubber-sheet metaphor." Now we came to something I wasn't sure I had ever heard before. "How does that go?" I asked. "Suppose that, instead of trying to lift the indenting mass, we try to stiffen the sheet itself, make it less indentable. It would contract, at least over a small area, and become flatter. Gravity would weaken. And so would mass, for the two are essentially the same phenomenon in terms of the indented Universe. If we could make the rubber sheet completely flat, both gravity and mass would disappear altogether. "Under the proper conditions, the electromagnetic field could be made to counter the gravitational field and serve to stiffen the indented fabric of the universe. The electromagnetic field is tremendously stronger than the gravitational field, so the former could be made to overcome the latter." I said, uncertainly, "But you say 'under the proper conditions.' Can those proper conditions you speak of be achieved, Professor?" "That is what I don't know," said Priss, thoughtfully and slowly. "If the universe were really a rubber sheet, its stiffness would have to reach an infinite value before it could be expected to remain completely flat under an indenting mass. I f that is also so in the real universe, then an infinitely intense electromagnetic field would be required, and that would mean anti-gravity would be impossible." "But Bloom says -- " "Yes, I imagine Bloom thinks a finite field will do, if it can be properly applied. Still, however ingenious he is," and Priss smiled narrowly, "we needn't take him to be infallible. His grasp on theory is quite faulty. He -- he never earned his college degree, did you know that?" I was about to say that I knew that. After all, everyone did. But there was a touch of eagerness in Priss's voice as he said it, and I looked up in time to catch animation in his eye, as though he were delighted to spread that piece of news. So I nodded my head as if I were filing it for future reference. "Then you would say, Professor Priss," I prodded again, "that Bloom is probably wrong and that antigravity is impossible?" And finally Priss nodded and said, "The gravitational field can be weakened, of course, but if by anti-gravity we mean a true zero-gravity field -- no gravity at all over a significant volume of space -- then I suspect anti-gravity may turn out to be impossible, despite Bloom." And I rather had what I wanted. Ill I wasn't able to see Bloom for nearly three months after that, and when I did see him he was in an angry mood. He had grown angry at once, of oourse, when the news first broke concerning Priss's statement. He let it be known that Priss would be invited to the eventual display of the anti-gravity device as soon as it was constructed and would even be asked to participate in the demonstration. Some reporter (not me, unfortunately) caught him between appointments and asked him to elaborate on that, and he said: "I'll have the device eventually; soon, maybe. And you can be there, IF and so can anyone else the press would care to have there. And Professor James Priss can be there. He can represent Theoretical Science, and after I have demonstrated antigravity, he can adjust his theory to explain it. I'm sure he will know how to make his adjustments in masterly fashion and show exactly why I couldn't possibly have failed. He might do it now and save time, but I suppose he won't." It was all said very politely, but you could hear the snarl under the rapid flow of words. Yet he continued his occasional when the two met they behaved with complete propriety. One could tell the progress Bloom was making by their respective attitudes to the press. Bloom grew curt and even snappish, while Priss developed an increasing good humor. When my umpteenth request for an interview with Bloom was finally accepted, I wondered if perhaps that meant a break in Bloom's quest. I had a little day-dream of him announcing final success to me. It didn't work out that way. He met me in his office at Bloom Enterprises in upstate New York. It was a wonderful setting; well away from any populated area, elaborately landscaped, and covering as much ground as a rather large industrial establishment. Edison at his height, two centuries ago, had never been as phenomenally successful as Bloom. But Bloom was not in a good humor. He came striding in ten minutes late and went snarling past his secretary's desk with the barest nod in my direction. He was wearing a lab coat, unbuttoned. He threw himself into his chair and said, "I'm sorry if I've kept you waiting, but I didn't have as much time as I had hoped." Bloom was a born showman and knew better than to antagonize the press, but I had the feeling he was having a great deal of difficulty at that moment in adhering to this principle. I made the obvious guess. "I am given to understand, sir, that your recent tests have been unsuccessful." "Who told you that?" "I would say it was general knowledge, Mr. Bloom." "No, it isn't. Don't say that, young man! There is no general knowledge about what goes on in my laboratories and workshops. You're stating the professor's opinions, aren't you? "No, I'm -- " "Of course you are! Aren't you the one to whom he made that statement -- that anti-gravity is impossible?" "He didn't make the statement that flatly." "He never says anything flatly. But it was flat enough for him. And not as flat as I'll have his damned rubber-sheet universe before I'm finished." "Then does that mean you're making progress, Mr. Bloom?" "You know I am," he said with a snap. "Or you should know. Weren't you there at the demonstration last week?" "Yes, I was." I judged Bloom to be in trouble, or he wouldn't be mentioning that demonstration. It worked, but it was IF not a world beater. Between the two poles of a magnet a region of lessened gravity was produced. I t was done very cleverly. A Mossbauer Effect Balance was used to probe the space between the poles. If you've never seen an M-E Balance in action, it consists primarily of a tight monochromatic beam of gamma rays shot down the low-gravity field. The gamma rays change wavelength slightly but measurably under the influence of the gravitational field and if anything happens to alter the intensity of the field, the wavelength-change shifts correspondingly. It is an extremely delicate method for probing a gravitational field, and it worked like a charm. There was no question but that Bloom had lowered gravity. The trouble was that it had been done before by others. Bloom, to be sure, had made use of circuits that greatly increased the ease with which such an effect had been achieved (his system was typically ingenious and had been duly patented), and he maintained that it was by this method that anti-gravity would become not merely a scientific curiosity but a practical affair with industrial applications. Perhaps! But it was an incomplete job, and he didn't usually make a fuss over incompleteness. He wouldn't have done so this time if he didn't have to display something . I said, "It's my impression that what you accomplished at that preliminary demonstration was # g, and better than that was achieved in Brazil last spring." "That so? Well, calculate the energy input in Brazil and here and then tell me the difference in gravity decrease per kilowatt-hour. You'll be surprised." "But the point is, can you reach # g; zero gravity? That's wihat Professor Priss thinks may be impossible. Everyone agrees that merely lessening the intensity of the field is no great feat." Bloom's fist clenched. I had the feeling that a key experiment had gone wrong that day and he was annoyed almost past endurance. Bloom hated to be balked by the universe. He said, "Theoreticians make me sick." He said it in a low, controlled voice, as though he were finally tired of not saying it, and he was going to speak his mind and be damned. "Priss has won two Nobel Prizes for sloshing around a few equations, but what has he done with it? Nothing! I have done something with it and I'm going to do more with it, whether Priss likes it or not. "'ra the one people will remember. I'm the one who gets the credit. He can keep his damned title and his Prizes and his kudos from the scholars. Listen, I'll tell you what gripes him. Plain old-fashioned jealousy. It kills him that I get what I get for doing. He wants it for thinking. "I said to him once -- We play (It was at this point that I quoted got Bloom's counterstatement. I never published either. That was just trivia.) when he had cooled down, "and I've won my share of games. We keep things friendly enough, what the hell -- college chums and all that -- though how he got through I'll never know. He made it in physics, of course, and in math. But he got a bare pass -- out of pity, I think -- in every humanities course he ever took." "You did not get your degree, did you, Mr. Bloom?" (That was sheer mischief on my part. I was enjoying his eruption.) "I quit to go into business, damn it! My academic average, over the three years I attended, was a strong B. Don't imagine anything else, you hear? Hell, by the time Priss got his Pfa.D., I was working on my second He went on, clearly irritated. and I said to him, 'Jim, the average man will never understand why you get the Nobel Prize when I'm the one who gets the results. Why do you need two? Give me one!' He stood there, chalking up his cue, and then he said in his soft namby-pamby Give me one.' So you see, he wants the money." I said, "I take it you don't mind his getting the honor?" For a minute, I thought he was going to order me out. But he didn't. He laughed instead, waved his hand in front of him, as though he were erasing something from an invisible blackboard in front of him. He said, "Oh, well, forget it. All that is off the record. Listen, do you want a statement? Okay! Things didn't go right today, and I blew my top a bit, but it will clear up. I think I know what's wrong. And if I don't, I'm going to know. "Look, you can say that  say that we don't need infinite electromagnetic intensity. We will flatten out the rubber sheet. We will have zero gravity. And when we get it, I'll have the damnedest demonstration you ever saw, exclusively for the press and for Priss, and you'll be invited. And you can say it won't be long. Okay?" Okay! I had time after that to see each man once or twice more. I even saw them together when I was presAs I said before, both of them were good. IF But the call to the demonstration did not come as quickly as all that. It arrived six weeks less than a year after Bloom gave me his statement. And at that, perhaps it was unfair to expect quicker work. I had a special engraved invitation, with the assurance of a cocktail hour first. Bloom never did things by halves, and he was planning to have a pleased and satisfied group of reporters on hand. There was an arrangement for tridimensional TV, too. Bloom felt completely confident, obviously; confident enough to be every living room on the planet. I called up Professor Priss, to make sure he was invited, too. He was! "Do you plan to attend, sir?" There was a pause, and the professor's face on the screen was a study in uncertain reluctance. "A demonstration of this sort is most unsuitable where a serious scientific matter is in question. I do not like to encourage such things." I was afraid he would beg off, and the dramatics of the situation would be greatly lessened if he were not there. But then, perhaps, he decided he dared not play the chicken before the world. With obvious distaste, he said, "Of course, Ed Bloom is not really a scientist, and he must have his day in the sun. I'll be there." "Do you think Mr. Bloom can produce zero gravity, sir?" " -- uh -- Mr. Bloom sent me a copy of the design of his device and -- and I'm not certain. Perhaps he can do it, if -- uh -- he says he can do it. Of course -- " he paused again for quite a long time. "I think I would like to see it." So would I, and so would many others. The staging was impeccable. A whole floor of the main building at Bloom Enterprises -- the one on the hilltop -- was cleared. There were the promised cocktails and a splendid array of hors d'oeuvres, soft music and lighting, and a carefully dressed and thoroughly jovial Edward Bloom playing the perfect host, while a number of polite and unobtrusive menials fetched and carried. All was geniality and amazing confidence. James Priss was late, and I caught Bloom watching the corners of the crowd and beginning to grow a little grim about the edges. Then Priss arrived, dragging a volume of colorProfessor James Priss IV lessness in with him, a drabness that was unaffected by the noise and the absolute splendor (no other word would describe it -- or else it was the two martinis glowing inside me) that filled the room. Bloom saw him, and his face was. illuminated at once. He bounced across the floor, seizing the smaller man's hand and dragging him to the bar. "Jim! Glad to see you! What'll you have? Hell, man, I'd have called it off if you hadn't showed. Can't have this thing without the star, you know." He wrung Priss's hand. "It's your theory, you know. We poor mortals can't do a thing without you few, you damned few few, pointing the way." He was being ebullient, handing out the flattery, because he could afford to do so now. He was fattening Priss for the kill. Priss tried to refuse a drink, with some sort of mutter, but a glass was pressed into his hand; and Bloom raised his voice to a bullroar. "Gentlemen! A moment's quiet, please. To Professor Priss, the greatest mind since Einstein, twotime Nobel Laureate, father of the Two-Field Theory, and inspirer of the demonstration we are about to see -- even if he didn't think it would work and he had the guts to say so publicly." There was a distinct titter of laughter that quickly faded out, and Priss looked as grim as he could manage. "But now that Professor Priss is here," said Bloom, "and we've had our toast, let's get on with it. Follow me, gentlemen!" T he demonstration was in a much more elaborate place than had housed the earlier one. This time it was on the top floor of the building. Different magnets were involved -- smaller ones, by heaven -- but as nearly as I could tell, the same M-E Balance was in place. One thing was new, however, and it staggered everybody, drawing much more attention than anything table, resting under one pole of the magnet. Beneath it was the companion pole. A round hole about a foot across was stamped out of the very center of the table; and it was obvious that the zero-gravity field, if it was to be produced, would be produced through that hole in the center It was as though the whole demonstration had been designed, surrealist-fashion, to point up the victory of Bloom over Priss. This was to be another version of their everBloom was going to win. I don't know if the other newsmen took matters in that fashion, but I think Priss did. I turned to look at him and saw that he was still holding the drink that had been forced into his hand. He rarely drank, I knew, but now he lifted the glass to his lips and emptied it in two swalalize that he took it as a deliberate snap of fingers under his nose. Bloom led us to the twenty seats that surrounded three sides of the ( IF table, leaving the fourth free as a working area. Priss was carefully escorted to the seat commanding the most convenient view. Priss glanced quickly at the tri-di cameras which were now working. I wondered if he were thinking of leaving but deciding that he couldn't in the full glare of the eyes of the world. Essentially, the demonstration was simple; it was the production that counted. There were dials in plain view that measured the energy expenditure. There were others that transferred the M-E Balance readings into a position and a size that were visible to all. Everything was arranged for easy tri-di viewing. Bloom explained each step in a genial way, with one or two pauses in which he turned to Priss for a confirmation that had to come. He didn't do it often enough to make it obvious, but just enough to turn Priss upon the spit of his own torment. From where I sat I could look across the table and see Priss on the other side. He had the look of a man in Hell. A s we all know, Bloom succeeded. The M-E Balance showed the gravitational intensity to be sinking steadily as the electromagnetic field was intensified. There were cheers, when it dropped below the # g mark. A red line indicated that on the dial. "The # g mark, as you know," said Bloom, confidently, "represents the previous record low in gravitational intensity. We are now lower than that at a cost in electricity that is less than ten per cent what it cost at the time that mark was set. And we will go lower still." Bloom (I think deliberately, for the sake of the suspense) slowed the drop toward the end, letting the tridi cameras switch back and forth beand the dial on which the M-E Balance reading was lowering. Bloom said, suddenly, "Gentlemen, you will find dark goggles in the pouch on the side of each chair. Please put them on now. The zerogravity field will soon be established, and it will radiate a light rich in ultraviolet." He put goggles on himself, and there was a momentary rustle as others went on, too. I think no one breathed during the last minute, when the dial reading dropped to zero and held fast. And just as that happened a cylinder of light sprang into existence from pole to pole through the hole in the There was a ghost of twenty sighs at that. Someone called out, "Mr. Bloom, what is the reason for the light?" "It's characteristic of the zerogravity field," said Bloom smoothly, which was no answer of course. Reporters were standing up now, crowding about the edge of the table. Bloom waved them back. "Please, gentlemen, stand clear!" Only Priss remained sitting. He seemed lost in thought, and I have been certain ever since that it was the goggles that obscured the possible significance of everything that followed. I didn't see his eyes. I couldn't. And that meant neither I nor anyone else could even begin to make a guess as to what was going on behind those eyes. Well, maybe we couldn't have made such a guess, even if the goggles hadn't been there, but who can say? Bloom was raising his voice again. "Please! The demonstration is not yet over. So far, we've only repeated what I have done before,. I have now produced a zero-gravity field and I have shown it can be done practically. But I want to demonstrate something of what such a field can do. What we are going to see next will be something that has never been seen, not even by myself. I have not experimented in this direction, much as I would have liked to, because I have felt that Professor Priss deserved the honor of -- " Priss looked up sharply, "What -- what -- " "Professor Priss," said Bloom, smiling broadly, "I would like you to perform the first experiment involving the interaction of a solid object with a zero-gravity field. Notice that the field has been formed in the cenknows your phenomenal skill in billiards, Professor, a talent second only to your amazing aptitude in theoretical physics. Won't you send a billiard ball into the zero-gravity volume?" E agerly, he was handing a ball and cue to the professor. Priss, his eyes hidden by the goggles, stared at them and only very slowly, very uncertainly, reached out to take them. I wonder what his eyes were showing. I wonder, too, how much of the at the demonstration was due to Bloom's anger at Priss's remark about their periodic game, the remark I had quoted. Had I been, in my way, responsible for what followed? "Come, stand up, Professor," said Bloom, "and let me have your seat. The show is yours from now on. Go ahead!" Bloom seated himself and still talked, in a voice that grew more organlike with each moment. "Once Professor Priss sends the ball into the volume of zero-gravity, it will no longer be affected by Earth's gravitational field. It will remain truly motionless while the Earth rotates about its axis and travels about the sun. In this latitude, and at this time of day, I have calculated that the Earth, in its motions, will sink downward. We will move with it, and the ball will stand still. To us it will seem to rise up and away from the Earth's surface. Watch." Priss seemed to stand in front of the table in frozen paralysis. Was it surprise? Astonishment? I don't know. I'll never know. Did he make a move to interrupt Bloom's little speech, or was he just suffering from an agonized reluctance to play the ignominious part into which he was being forced by his adversary? looking first at it, then back at Bloom. Every reporter was on his feet, crowding as closely as possible in order to get a good view. Only Bloom himself remained seated, smiling and isolated. (He, of course, was IF not watching the table, or the balls, or the zero-gravity field. As nearly as I could tell through the goggles, he was watching Priss.) Priss turned to the table and placed his ball. He was going to be the agent that was to bring final and dramatic triumph to Bloom and make himself -- the man who said it couldn't be done -- the goat to be mocked forever. Perhaps he felt there was no way out. Or perhaps -- With a sure stroke of his cue, he set the ball into motion. It was not going quickly, and every eye followed it. It struck the side of the table and caromed. It was going even slower now as though Priss himself were increasing the suspense and making Bloom's triumph the more dramatic. I had a perfect view, for I was standing on the side of the table opposite from that where Priss was. I could see the ball moving toward the glitter of the zero-gravity field, and beyond it I could see those portions of the seated Bloom which were not hidden by that glitter. The ball approached the zerogravity volume, seemed to hang on the edge for a moment and then was gone, with a streak of light, the sound of a thunder-clap and the sudden smell of burning cloth. We yelled. We all yelled. I've seen the scene on television since -- along with the rest of the world. I can see myself in the film during that fifteen second period of wild confusion, but I don't really recognize my face. Fifteen seconds! And then we discovered Bloom. He was still sitting in the chair, his arms still folded -- but there was a through left wrist, chest and back. The better part of his heart, as it later turned out under autopsy, had been neatly punched out.' They turned off the device. They called in the police. They dragged off Priss, who was in a state of utter collapse. I wasn't much better off, to tell the truth, and if any reporter then on the scene ever tried to say he remained a cool observer of that scene, then he's a cool liar. V I t was some months before I got to see Priss again. He had lost some weight but seemed well otherwise, Indeed, there was color in his cheeks and an air of decision about him. He was better dressed than I had ever seen him to be. He said, "I know what happened now, If I had had time to think, I would have known then. But I am a slow thinker, and poor Ed Bloom was so intent on running a great show and doing it so well that he carried me along with him. Naturally, I've been trying to make up for some of the damage I unwittingly caused." "You can't bring Bloom back to life," I said, soberly. "No, I can't," he said, just as soberly. "But there's Bloom Enterprises to think of, too. What happened at the demonstration, in full view of the world, was the worst possible advertisement for zero-gravity, and it's important that the story be made clear. That is why l have asked to see you." "Yes?" "If I had been a quicker thinker, I would have known Ed was speaking the purest nonsense, when he ly rise in the zero-gravity field. It couldn't be so! If Bloom hadn't despised theory so, if he hadn't been so intent on being proud of his own ignorance of theory, he'd have known it himself. "The Earth's motion, after all, isn't the only motion involved, young man. The sun itself moves in a vast orbit about the center of the Milky Way galaxy. And the galaxy moves, too, in some not very clearwere subjected to zero gravity, you might think of it as being unaffected by any of these motions and therefore of suddenly falling into a state of absolute rest -- when there is no such thing as absolute rest." Priss shook his head slowly. "The trouble with Ed, I think, was that he was thinking of the kind of zerogravity one gets in a spaceship in free fall, when people float in midair. He expected the ball to float in mid-air. However, in a spaceship, zero gravity is not the result of an absence of gravitation, but merely the result of two objects, a ship and a man within the ship, falling at the same rate, responding to gravity in precisely the same way, so that each is motionless with respect to the other. "In the zero-gravity field produced by Ed, there was a flattening of the rubber-sheet universe, which means an actual loss of mass. Everything in that field, including molecules of air caught within it, and completely massless as long as it remained with it. A completely massless object can move in only one way." He paused, inviting the question. I asked, "What motion would that be?" "Motion at the speed of light. Any massless object, such as a neutrino or a photon, must travel at the speed of light as long as it exists. In fact, light moves at that speed only because it is made up of photons. As zero-gravity field and lost its mass, it, too, assumed the speed of light at once and left." I shook my head. "But didn't it regain its mass as soon as it left the zero-gravity volume?" "It certainly did, and at once it began to be affected by the gravitational field and to slow up in response to the friction of the air and imagine how much friction it would take to slow up an object the mass of light. It went through the hundredmile thickness of our atmosphere in a thousandth of a second, and I doubt that it was slowed more than a few miles a second in doing so; a few miles out of # of them. On the way, it scorched the top of the billiard table, broke cleanly through the edge, went through poor Ed and the window too, punching out neat circles, because it had passed IF through before the neighboring porleft with an incredible quantity of tions of something even as brittle kinetic energy. Where did the energy as glass had a chance to split and come from?" splinter. Priss shrugged. "It came from "It is extremely fortunate we were nowhere! The law of conservation of on the top floor of a building set in energy only holds under the cona countrified area. If we were in the ditions in which general relativity is city, it might have passed through a valid; that is, in an indented rubbernumber of buildings and killed a sheet universe. Wherever the indentanumber of people. By now that biltion is flattened out, general relaliard ball is off in space, far beyond tivity no longer holds, and energy the edge of the solar system, and it can be created and destroyed freely, will continue to travel so forever, at That accounts for the radiation along nearly the speed  of light, until it the cylindrical surface of the zerohappens to strike an object large gravity volume. That radiation, you enough to stop it. And it will then remember, Bloom did not explain, gouge out a sizable crater." and, I fear, could not explain. If he I played with the notion and was had only experimented further first; not sure I liked it. "How is that posif he had only not been so foolishly zero-gravity volume almost at a "What accounts for the radiation, standstill. I saw it. And you say it sir?" "The molecules of air inside the volume! Each assumes the speed of light and comes smashing outward. balls, so they're stopped, but the kinetic energy of their motion is converted into energetic radiation. It's continuous because new molecules are always drifting in and attaining the speed of light and smashing out." "Then energy is being created continuously?" "Exactly. And that is what we must make clear to the public. Antigravity is not primarily a device to lift spaceships or to revolutionize mechanical movement. Rather it is the source of an endless supply of free energy, since part of the energy produced can be diverted to maintain the field that keeps that portion of the universe flat. What Ed Bloom invented, without knowing it, was not just anti-gravity, but the first successful perpetual motion machine of the first class -- one that manufactures energy out of nothing." I said, slowly, "Any one of us ard ball, is that right, professor? It might have come out in any direction." Priss said, "Well, massless photons emerge from any light source at the speed of light in any direction; that's why a candle casts light in all directions. The massless air molecules come out of the zero-gravity volume in all directions, which is why the ard ball was only one object. It could have come out in any direction, but it had to come out in some one direction, chosen at random, and the chosen direction happened to be the one that caught Ed." T hat was it. Everyone knows the consequences. Mankind had free energy and so we have the world we have now. Professor Priss was placed in charge of its development by the board of Bloom Enterprises, and in time he was as rich and famous as ever Edward Bloom had been. And Priss still has two Nobel Prizes in addition. Only -- I keep thinking. Photons smash out from a light source in all directions because they are created at the moment and there is no reason for them to move in one direction more than in another. Air molecules come out of a zero-gravity field in all directions because they enter it in all directions. ball, entering a zero-gravity field from one particular direction. Does it come out in the same direction or in any direction? I've inquired delicately, but theoretical physicists don't seem to be sure, and I can find no record that Bloom Enterprises, which is the only organization working with zero-gravity fields, has ever experimented in the matter. Someone at the organization once told me that the uncertainty principle guarantees the random emergence of an object entering in any direction. But then why don't they try the experiment? Could it be, then -- Could it be that for once Priss's mind had been working quickly? Could it be that, under the pressure IF of what Bloom was trying to do to him, Priss had suddenly seen everything. He had been studying the radiation surrounding the zero-gravity volume. He might have realized its cause and been certain of the speedof-light motion of anything entering the volume. Why, then, had he said nothing? One thing is certain. Nothing could be accidental. He was an exwhat he wanted them to. I was standing right there. I saw him look at Bloom and then at the table as though he were judging angles. I watched him hit that ball. I watched it bounce off the side of the table and move into the zero-gravity volume, heading in one particular direction. For when Priss sent that ball toward the zero-gravity volume -- and the tri-di films bear me out -- it was already aimed directly at Bloom's heart! Accident? Coincidence? Murder? Coming Next Month in IF! Beginning a new two-part serial of spacemen against the deadly stars! by A. Bertram Chandler by Keith Laumer by Larry Niven And concluding by Algis Budrys All these and many more in the big April IF -- on sale about March #th! IF  Novelette I I looked down at it and I was was sick! I wondered, where did it lead? Stars? There were no words. I stared and I stared, and I cursed the fact that the thing existed and that someone had found it while I was still around. "Well?" said Lanning, and he banked the flier so that I could look upward. I shook my head and shaded my already shielded eyes. "Make it go away," I finally told him. "Can't. It's bigger than I am." "It's bigger than anybody," I said. "I can make us go away..." "Never mind. I want to take some pictures." He brought it around, and I started to shoot. "Can you hover -- or get any closer?" "No, the winds are too strong." "That figures." So I shot -- through telescopic lenses and scan attachment and all -- as we circled it. "I'd give a lot to see the top." "We're at thirty thousand feet, and fifty's the ceiling on this baby. The Lady, unfortunately, stands taller than the atmosphere." "Funny," I said, "from here she doesn't strike me as the sort to breathe ether and spend all her time looking at stars." He chuckled and lit a cigarette, and I reached us another bulb of coffee. "How does the Gray Sister strike you?" And I lit one of my own and inhaled, as the flier was buffeted by sudden gusts of something from somewhere and then ignored, and I said, "Like Our Lady of the Abattoir -- right between the eyes." We drank some coffee, and then he asked, "She too big, Whitey?" and I gnashed my teeth through caffeine, for only my friends call me Whitey, my name being Jack Summers and my hair having always been this way, and at the moment I wasn't too certain whether Henry Lanning qualified for that status -- just because he'd known me for twenty years -- after going out of his way to find this thing on a world with a thin atmosphere, a lot of rocks, a too-bright sky and a name after George Diesel, who had set foot in the dust and then gone away -- smart fellow! "A forty-mile-high mountain," I finally said, "is not a mountain. It is a world all by itself, which some dumb deity forgot to throw into orbit." "I take it you're not interested?" I looked back at the gray and lavender slopes and followed them upward once again, until all color drained away, until the silhouette was black and jagged and the top still nowhere in sight, until my eyes stung and burned behind their protective glasses; and I saw clouds bumping up against that invincible outline, like icebergs in the sky, and I heard the howling of the retreating winds which had essayed to measure its grandeur with swiftness and, of course, had failed. "Oh, I'm interested," I said, "in an academic sort of way. Let's go back to town, where I can eat and drink and maybe break a leg if I'm lucky." He headed the flier south, and I didn't look around as we went. I could sense her presence at my back, though, all the way: The Gray Sister, the highest mountain in the known universe. Unclimbed, of course. S he remained at my back during the days that followed, casting her shadow over everything I looked upon. For the next two days I studied the pictures I had taken and I dug up some maps and I studied IF them, too; and I spoke with people who told me stories of the Gray Sister, strange stories... During this time, I came across nothing really encouraging. I learned that there had been an attempt to colonize Diesel a couple centuries previously, back before faster-thanlight ships were developed. A brandnew disease had colonized the first colonists, however, wiping them out to a man. The new colony was four years old, had better doctors, had beaten the plague, was on Diesel to stay and seemed proud of its poor taste when it came to worlds. Nobody, I learned, fooled around much with the Gray Sister. There had been a few abortive attempts to climb her, and some young legends that followed after. During the day, the sky never shut up. It kept screaming into my eyes, until I took to wearing my climbing goggles whenever I went out. Mainly, though, I sat in the hotel lounge and ate and drank and studied the pictures and crossexamined anybody who happened to pass by and glance at them, spread out there on the table. I continued to ignore all Henry's questions. I knew what he wanted, and he could damn well wait. Unfortunately, he did, and rather well, too, which irritated me. He felt I was almost hooked by the Sister, and he wanted to Be There When It Happened. He'd made a fortune on the Kasla story, and I could already see the opening sentences of this one in the smug lines around his eyes. Whenever he tried to make like a poker player, leaning on his fist and slowly turning a photo, I could see whole paragraphs. If I followed the direction of his gaze, I probably could even have seen the dust jacket. At the end of the week, a ship came' down out of the sky, and some nasty people got off and interrupted my train of thought. When they came into the lounge, I recognized them for what they were and removed my black lenses so that I could nail Henry with my basilisk gaze and turn him to stone. As it would happen, he had too much alcohol in him, and it didn't work. "You tipped off the press," I said. "Now, now," he said, growing smaller and stiffening as my gaze groped its way through the murk of his central nervous system and finally touched upon the edges of that tiny tumor, his forebrain. "You're well-known, and..." I replaced my glasses and hunched over my drink, looking far gone, as one of the three approached and said, "Pardon me, but are you Jack Summers?" T o explain the silence which followed, Henry said, "Yes, this is Mad Jack, the man who climbed Everest at twenty-three and every other pile of rocks worth mentioning since that time. At thirty-one, he became the only man to conquer the highest mountain in the known universe -- Mount Kasla on Litan -- elevation #I feet. My book -- " "Yes," said the reporter. "My name is Cary, and I'm with GP. My friends represent two of the other syndicates. We've heard that you are going to climb the Gray Sister." "You've heard incorrectly," I said. "Oh?" The other two came up and stood beside 'him. "We thought that -- " one of them began. " -- you were already organizing a climbing party," said the other. "Then you're not going to climb the Sister?" asked Cary, while one of the two looked over my pictures and the other got ready to take some of his own. "Stop that!" I said, raising a hand at the photographer. "Bright lights hurt my eyes!" "Sorry. I'll use the infra," he said, and he started fooling with his camera. Cary repeated the question. "All I said was that you've heard incorrectly," I told him. "I didn't say I was and I didn't say I wasn't. I haven't made up my mind." "If you should decide to try it, have you any idea when it will be?" "Sorry, I can't answer that." Henry took the three of them over to the bar and started explaining something, with gestures. I heard the words "... out of retirement after four years," and when if they looked to the booth again, I was gone. I had retired, to the street which was full of dusk, and I walked along it thinking. I trod her shadow even then, Linda. And the Gray Sister beckoned and forbade with her single unmoving gesture. I watched her, so far away, yet still so large, a piece of midnight at eight o'clock. The hours that lay between died like the distance at her feet, and I knew that she would follow me wherever I went, even into sleep. Especially into sleep. So I knew, at that moment. The days that followed were a game I enjoyed playing. Fake indecision is delicious when people want you to do something. I looked at her then, my last and my largest, my very own Koshtra Pivrarcha, and I felt that I was born to stand upon her summit. Then I could retire, probably remarry, cultivate my mind, not worry about getting out of shape, and do all the square things I didn't do before, the lack of which had cost me a wife and a home, back when I had gone to Kasla, elevation #I feet, four and a half years ago, in the days of my glory. I regarded my Gray Sister across the eight o'clock world, and she was dark and noble and still and waiting, as she had alwas been. II T he following morning I sent the messages. Out across the lightyears like cosmic carrier pigeons they went. They winged their ways to some persons I hadn't seen in years and to others who had seen me off at Luna Station. Each said, in its own way, "If you want in on the biggest climb of them all, come to Diesel. The Gray Sister eats Kaslas for breakfast. R.S.V.P. co The Lodge, Georgetown. Whitey." Backward, turn backward... I didn't tell Henry. Nothing at all. What I had done and where I was going, for a time, were my business only, for that same time. I checked IF out well before sunrise and left him a message at the desk: "Out of town on business. Back in a week. Hold the fort. Mad Jack." I had to gauge the lower slopes, tug the hem of the lady's skirt, so to speak, before I introduced her to my friends. They say only a madman climbs alone, but they call me what they call me for a reason. From my pix, the northern face had looked promising. I set the rented flier down as near as I could, locked it up, shouldered my pack and started walking. Mountains rising to my right and to my left, mountains at my back, all dark as sin now in the predawn light of a white, white day. Ahead of me, not a mountain, but an almost gentle slope which kept rising and rising and rising. Bright stars above me and cold wind past me as I walked. Straight up, though, no stars, just black. I wondered for the thousandth time what a mountain weighed. I always wonder that as I approach one. No clouds in sight. No noises but my boot sounds on the turf and the small gravel. My goggles flopped around my neck. My hands were moist within my gloves. On Diesel, the pack and I together probably weighed about the same as me alone on Earth -- for which I was duly grateful. My breath burned as it came and steamed as it went. I counted a thousand steps and looked back, and I couldn't see the flier. I counted a thousand more and then looked up to watch some stars go out. About an hour after that, I had to put on my goggles. By then I could see where I was headed. And by then the wind seemed stronger. She was so big that the eye couldn't take all of her in at once. I moved my head from side to side, leaning further and further backward. Wherever the top, it was too high. For an instant, I was seized by a crazy acrophobic notion that I was looking down rather than up, and the soles of my feet and the palms of my hands tingled, like an ape's must when, releasing one high branch to seize another, he discovers that there isn't another. I went on for two more hours and stopped for a light meal. This was hiking, not climbing. As I ate, I wondered what could have caused a formation like the Gray Sister. There were some ten and twelve-mile peaks within sixty miles of the place and a fifteen-mile mountain called Burke's Peak on the adjacent continent, but nothing else like the Sister. The lesser gravitation? Her composition? I couldn't say. I wondered what Doc and Kelly and Mallard i would say when they saw her. I don't define them, though. I only climb them. I looked up again, and a few clouds were brushing against her now. From the photos I had taken, she might be an easy ascent for a good ten or twelve miles. Like a big hill. There were certainly enough alternate routes. In fact, I thought she just might be a pushover. Feeling heartened, I repacked my utensils and proceeded. It was going to be a good day, I could tell. And it was. I got off the slope and onto something like a trail by late afternoon. Daylight lasts about nine hours on Diesel, and I spent most of it moving. The trail was so good that I kept on for several hours after sundown and made considerable height. I was beginning to use my respiration equipment by then, and the heating unit in my suit was turned on. ers, the way was easy, the night was my friend. I came upon a broad, flat piece and made my camp under an overhang. There I slept, and I dreamt of snowy women with breasts like the Alps, pinked by the morning sun; and they sang to me like the wind and laughed, had eyes of ice prismatic. They fled through a field of clouds. T he following day I made a lot more height. The "trail" began to narrow, and it ran out in places, but it was easy to reach for the sky until another one occurred. So far, it had all been good rock. It was still tapering as it heightened, and balance was no problem. I did a lot of plain old walking. I ran up one long zigzag and hit it up a wide chimney almost as fast as Santa Claus comes down one. The winds were strong, could be a problem if the going got difficult. I was on the respirator full time and feeling great. I could see for an enormous distance now. There were mountains and mountains, all below me like desert dunes. The sun beat halos of heat about their peaks. In the east, I saw Lake Emerick, dark and shiny as the toe of a boot. I wound my way about a jutting crag and came upon a giant's staircase, going up for at least a thousand feet. I mounted it. At its top I hit my first real barrier: a fairly smooth, almost perpendicular face rising for about eightyfive feet. No way around it, so I went up. It took me a good hour, and there was a ridge at the top leading to more easy climbing. By then, though, the clouds attacked me. Even though the going was easy, I was slowed by the fog. I wanted to outclimb it and still have some daylight left, so I decided to postpone eating. But the clouds kept coming. I made another thousand feet, and they were still about me. Somewhere below me, I heard thunder. The fog was easy on my eyes, though, so I kept pushing. Then I tried a chimney, the top of which I could barely discern, because it looked a lot shorter than a jagged crescent to its left. This was a mistake. The rate of condensation was greater than I'd guessed. The walls were slippery. I'm stubborn, though, and I fought with skidding boots and moist back until I was about a third of the way up, I thought, and winded. I realized then what I had done. What I had thought was the top wasn't. I went another fifteen feet and wished I hadn't. The fog began to boil about me, and I suddenly felt drenched. I was afraid to go down and I was afraid to go up, and I couldn't stay where I was forever. Whenever you hear a person say that he inched along, do not accuse him of a fuzzy choice of verbs. Give IF him the benefit of the doubt and your sympathy. I inched my way, blind, up an unknown length of slippery chimney. If my hair hadn't already been white when I entered at the bottom... Finally, I got above the fog. Finally, I saw a piece of that bright and nasty sky, which I decided to forgive for the moment. I aimed at it, arrived on target. When I emerged, I saw a little ledge about ten feet above me. I climbed to it and stretched out. My muscles were a bit shaky, and I made them go liquid. I took a drink of water, ate a couple of chocolate bars, took another drink. After perhaps ten minutes, I stood up. I could no longer see the ground. Just the soft, white cottony top of a kindly old storm. I looked up. It was amazing. She was still topless. And save for a couple spots, such as the last -- which had been the fault of my own stupid overconfidence -- it had almost been as easy as climbing stairs. Now the going appeared to be somewhat rougher, however. This was what I had really come to test. I swung my pick and continued. A ll the following day I climbed, steadily, taking no unnecessary risks, resting periodically, drawing maps, taking wide-angle photos. The ascent eased in two spots that afternoon, and I made a quick seven thousand feet. Higher now than Everest, and still going, I. Now, though, there were places where I crawled and places where I used ropes, and there were places where I braced myself and used my pneumatic pistol to blast a toehold. (No, in case you're wondering: I could have broken my eardrums, some ribs, an arm and doubtless ultimately, my neck, if I'd tried using the gun in the chimney.) Just near sunset, I came upon a high, easy winding way up and up and up. I debated with my more discreet self. I'd left the message that I'd be gone a week. This was the end of the third day. I wanted to make as much height as possible and start back down on the fifth day. If I followed the rocky route above me as far as it would take me I'd probably break forty thousand feet. Then, depending, I might have a halfway chance of hitting near the ten-mile mark before I had to turn back. Then I'd be able to get a much better picture of what lay above. My more discreet self lost, three to nothing, and Mad Jack went on. The stars were so big and blazing I was afraid they'd bite. The wind was no problem. There wasn't any at that height. I had to keep stepping up the temperature controls on my suit, and I had the feeling that if I could spit around my respirator, it would freeze before it hit the trail. I went on even further than I'd intended, and I broke forty-two thousand that night. I found a resting place, stretched out, killed my hand beacon. It was an odd dream that came to me. It was all cherry fires and stood like a man, only bigger, on the slope above me. It stood in an impossible position, so I knew I had to be dreaming. Something from the other end of my life stirred, however, and I was convinced for a bitter moment that it was the Angel of Judgment. Only, in its right hand it seemed to hold a sword of fires rather than a trumpet. It had been standing there forever, the tip of its blade pointed toward my breast. I could see the stars through it. It seemed to speak. It said: "Go back " I couldn't answer, though, for my tongue clove to the roof of my mouth. And it said it again, and yet a third time, "Go back" "Tomorrow," I thought, in my dream, and this seemed to satisfy it. For it died down and ceased, and the blackness rolled about me. T he following day, I climbed as I hadn't climbed in years. By late lunchtime I'd hit forty-eight thousand feet. The cloud cover down below had broken. I could see what lay beneath me once more. The ground was a dark and light patchwork. Above, the stars didn't go away. The going was rough, but I was feeling fine. I knew I couldn't make ten miles, because I could see that the way was pretty much the same for quite a distance, before it got even worse. My good spirits stayed, and they continued to rise as I did. When it attacked, it came on with a speed and fury that I was only barely able to match. The voice from my dream rang in my head: "Go back! Go back! Go back !" Then it came toward me from out of the sky. A bird the size of a condor. Only it wasn't really a bird. It was a bird-shaped thing. It was all fire and static, and as it flashed toward me I barely had time to brace my back against stone and heft my climbing pick in my right hand, ready. Ill I sat in the small, dark room and watched the spinning, colored lights. Ultrasonics were tickling my skull. I tried to relax and give the man some Alpha rhythms. Somewhere a receiver was receiving, a computer was computing and a recorder was recording. It lasted perhaps twenty minutes. When it was all over and they called me out, the doctor collared me. I beat him to the draw, though: "Give me the tape and send me the bill in care of Henry Lanning at the Lodge." "I want to discuss the reading," he said. "I have my own brain-wave expert coming. Just give me the tape." "Have you undergone any sort of traumatic experience recently?" "You tell me. Is it indicated?" "Well, yes and no," he said. "That's what I like, a straight answer." "I don't know what is normal for you, in the first place," he replied. "Is there any indication of brain damage?" "I don't read it that way. If you'd tell me what happened, and why IF you're suddenly concerned about your brain-waves, perhaps I'd be in a better position to " "Cut," I said. "Just give me the tape and bill me." "I'm concerned about you as a patient." "But you don't think there were any pathological indications?" "Not exactly. But tell me this, if you will: Have you had an epileptic seizure recently?" "Not to my knowledge. Why?" "You displayed a pattern similar to a residual subrhythm common in some forms of epilepsy for several days subsequent to a seizure." "Could a bump on the head cause that pattern?" "It's highly unlikely." "What else could cause it?" "Electrical shock, optical trauma -- " "Stop," I said, and I removed my glasses. "About the optical trauma. Look at my eyes." "I'm not an ophtha -- " he began, but I interrupted: "Most normal light hurts my eyes. If I lost my glasses and was exposed to very bright light for three, four days, could that cause the pattern you spoke of?" "Possibly..." he said. "Yes, I'd say so." "But there's more?" "I'm not sure. We have to take more readings, and if I know the story behind this it will help a lot." "Sorry," I said. "I need the tape now." He sighed and made a small gesture with his left hand as he turned away. "All right, Mister Smith." Cursing the genius of the mountain, I left the General Hospital, carrying my tape like a talisman. In my mind I searched, through forests of memory, for a ghost-sword in a stone of smoke, I think. B ack at the Lodge, they were waiting. Lanning and the newsmen. "What was it like?" asked one of the latter. "What was what like?" "The mountain. You were up on it, weren't you?" "No comment." "How high did you go?" "No comment." "How would you say it compares with Kasla?" "No comment." "Did you run into any complications?" "Ditto. Excuse me, I want to take a shower." Henry followed me into my room. The reporters tried to. After I had shaved and washed up, mixed a drink and lit a cigarette, Lanning asked me his more general question: "Well?" he said. I nodded. "Difficulties?" I nodded again. "Insurmountable?" I hefted the tape and thought a moment. "Maybe not." He helped himself to the whiskey. The second time around, he asked: "You going to try?" I knew I was. I knew I'd try it all by myself if I had to. "I really don't know," I said. "Why not?" "Because there's something up there," I said, "something that doesn't want us to do it." "Something lives up there?" "I'm not sure whether that's the right word." He lowered the drink. "What the hell happened?" "I was threatened. I was attacked." "Threatened? Verbally? In English?" He set his drink aside, which shows how serious his turn of mind had to be. "Attacked?" he added. "By what?" "I've sent for Doc and Kelly and Stan and Mallardi and Vincent. I checked a little earlier. They've all replied. They're coming. Miguel and the Dutchman can't make it, and they send their regrets. When we're all together, I'll tell the story. But I want to talk to Doc first. So hold tight and worry and don't quote." He finished his drink. "When'll they be coming?" "Four, five weeks," I said. "That's a long wait." "Under the circumstances," I said, "I can't think of any alternatives." "What'll we do in the meantime?" "Eat, drink and contemplate the mountain." He lowered his eyelids a moment, then nodded, reached for his glass. "Shall we begin?" I t was late, and I stood alone in the field with a bottle in one hand. Lanning had already turned in, and IF night's chimney was dark with cloud soot. Somewhere away from there, a storm was storming, and it was full of instant outlines. The wind came chill. "Mountain," I said. "Mountain, you have told me to go away." There was a rumble. "But I cannot," I said, and I took a drink. "I'm bringing you the best in the business," I said, "to go up on your slopes and to stand beneath the stars in your highest places. I must do this thing because you are there. No other reason. Nothing personal..." After a time, I said, "That's not true. "I'm a man," I said, "and I need to break mountains to prove that I will not die even though I will die. I am less than I want to be, Sister, and you can make me more. So I guess it is personal. "It's the only thing I know how to do, and you're the last one left -- the last challenge to the skill I spent my life learning. Maybe it is that mortality is closest to immortality when it accepts a challenge to itself, when it survives a threat. The moment of triumph is the moment of salvation. I have needed many such moments, and the final one must be the longest, for it must last me the rest of my life. "So you are there, Sister, and I am here and very mortal, and you have told me to go away. I cannot. I'm coming up, and if you throw death at me I will face it. It must be so." I finished what remained in the bottle. There were more flashes, more rumbles behind the mountain, more flashes. "It is the closest thing to divine drunkenness," I said to the thunder. And then she winked at me. It was a red star, so high upon her. Angel's sword. Phoenix's wing. Soul on fire. And it blazed at me, across the miles. Then the wind that blows between the worlds swept down over me. It was filled with tears and with crystals of ice. I stood there and felt it, then, "Don't go away," I said, and I watched until all was darkness once more and I was wet as an embryo waiting to cry out and breathe. M ost kids tell lies to their playmates -- fictional autobiographies, if you like -- which are either received with appropriate awe or countered with greater, more elaborate tellings. But little Jimmy, I've heard, always hearkened to his little buddies with wide, dark eyes, and near the endings of their stories the corners of his mouth would begin to twitch. By the time they were finished talking, his freckles would be mashed into a grin and his rusty head cocked to the side. His favorite expression, I understand, was "G'wan!" and his nose was broken twice before he was twelve. This was doubtless why he turned it toward books. Thirty years and four formal degrees later, he sat across from me in my quarters in the Lodge, and I called him Doc because everyone did, because he had a license to cut IF people up and look inside them, as well as doctoring to their philosophy, so to speak, and because he looked as if he should be called Doc when he grinned and cocked his head to the side and said, "Gan!" I wanted to punch him in the nose. "Damn it! It's true!" I told him. "I fought with a bird of fire!" "We all hallucinated on Kasla," he said, raising one finger, "because of fatigue," two fingers, "because the altitude affected our circulatory systems and consequently our brains," three, "because of the emotional stimulation," four, "and because we were partly oxygen-drunk." "You just ran out of fingers, if you'll sit on your other hand for a minute. So listen," I said, "it flew at me, and I swung at it, and it knocked me out and broke my goggles. When I woke up, it was gone and I was lying on the ledge. I think it was some sort of energy creature. normal. I think it shocked my nervous system when it touched me." "You were knocked out because you hit your head against a rock -- " "It caused me to fall back against the rock!" "I agree with that part. The rock was real. But nowhere in the universe has anyone ever discovered an 'energy creature.' " "So? You probably would have said that about America a thousand years ago." "Maybe I would have. But that my satisfaction. Optical trauma. Why go out of your way to dream up on exotic explanation for events? Easy ones generally turn out better. You hallucinated and you stumbled." "Okay," I said, "whenever I argue with you I generally need ammunition. Hold on a minute." I went to my closet and fetched it down from the top shelf. I placed it on my bed and began unwrapping the blanket I had around it. "I told you I took a swing at it," I said. "Well, I connected -- right before I went under. Here!" I held up my climbing pick -- brown, yellow, black and pitted -- looking as though it had fallen from outer space. He took it into his hands and stared at it for a long time, then he started to say something about ball lightning, changed his mind, shook his head and placed the thing back on the blanket. "I don't know," he finally said, and this time his freckles remained unmashed, except for those at the edges of his hands which got caught as he clenched them, slowly. IV W e planned. We mapped and charted and studied the photos. We plotted our ascent and we started a training program. While Doc and Stan had kept themselves in good shape, neither had been climbing since Kasla. Kelly was in top condition. Henry was on his way to fat. Mallardi and Vince, as always, seemed capable of fantastic feats of endurance and virtuosity, had even climbed a couple times during the past year, hut had recently been living pretty high on the tall hog, so to speak, and they wanted to get some practice. So we picked a comfortable, decent-sized mountain and gave it ten days to beat everyone back into shape. After that, we stuck to vitamins, calisthenics and square diets while we completed our preparations. During this time, Doc came up with seven shiny, alloy boxes, about six by four inches and thin as a first book of poems, for us to carry on our persons to broadcast a defense against the energy creature which he refused to admit existed. One fine, bitter-brisk morning we were ready. The newsmen liked me again. Much footage was taken of our gallant assemblage as we packed ourselves into the fliers, to be delivered at the foot of the lady mountain, there to contend for what was doubtless the final time as the team we had been for so many years, against the waiting gray and the lavender beneath the sunwhite flame. We approached the mountain, and I wondered how much she weighed. Y ou know the way, for the first nine miles. So I'll skip over that. It took us six days and part of a seventh. Nothing out of the ordinary occurred. Some fog there was, and nasty winds, but once below, forgotten. Stan and Mallardi and I stood where the bird had occurred, waiting for Doc and the others. "So far, it's been a picnic," said Mallardi. "Yeah," Stan acknowledged. "No birds either." "No," I agreed. "Do you think Doc was right -- about it being an hallucination?" Mallardi asked. "I remember seeing things on Kasla... " "As I recall," said Stan, "it was nymphs and an ocean of beer. Why would anyone want to see hot birds?" "Damfino." "Laugh, you hyenas," I said. "But just wait till a flock flies over." Doc came up and looked around. "This is the place?" I nodded. He tested the background radiation and half a dozen other things, found nothing untoward, grunted and looked upwards. We all did. Then we went there. It was very rough for three days, and we only made another five thousand feet during that time. When we bedded down, we were bushed, and sleep came quickly. So did Nemesis. He was there again, only not quite so near this time. He burned about twenty feet away, standing in the middle of the air, and the point of his blade indicated me. "Go away # he said, three times, without inflection. "Go to hell," I tried to say. He made as if he wished to draw nearer. He failed. "Go away yourself," I said. "Climb back down. Depart. You may go no further " "But I am going further. All the way to the top." "No. You may not." IF "Stick around and watch," I said. "Go back " "If you want to stand there and direct traffic, that's your business," I told him. "I'm going back to sleep." I crawled over and shook Doc's shoulder, but when I looked back my flaming visitor had departed. "What is it?" "Too late," I said. "He's been here and gone." Doc sat up. "The bird?" "No, the thing with the sword." "Where was he?" "Standing out there," I gestured. Doc hauled out his instruments and did many things with them for ten minutes or so. "Nothing," he finally said. "Maybe you were dreaming." "Yeah, sure," I said. "Sleep tight," and I hit the sack again, and this time I made it through to daylight without further fire or ado. I t took us four days to reach sixty thousand feet. Rocks fell like occasional cannonballs past us, and the sky was a big pool, cool, where pale flowers floated. When we struck sixty-three thousand, the going got much better, and we made it up to seventy-five thousand in two and a half more days. No fiery things stopped by to tell me to turn back. Then came the unforeseeable, however, and we had enough in the way of natural troubles to keep us cursing. We hit a big, level shelf. It was perhaps four hundred feet wide. As we advanced across it, we realized that it did not strike the mountainside. It dropped off into an enormous gutter of a canyon. We would have to go down again, perhaps seven hundred feet, before we could proceed upward once more. Worse yet, it led to a featureless face which strove for and achieved perpendicularity for a deadly high distance: like miles. The top was still nowhere in sight. "Where do we go now?" asked Kelly, moving to my side. "Down," I decided, "and we split up. We'll follow the big ditch in both directions and see which way gives the better route up. We'll meet back at the midway point." We descended. Then Doc and Kelly and I went left, and the others took the opposite way. After an hour and a half, our trail came to an end. We stood looking at nothing over the edge of something. Nowhere, during the entire time, had we come upon a decent way up. I stretched out, my head and shoulders over the edge, Kelly holding onto my ankles, and I looked as far as I could to the right and up. There was nothing in sight that was worth a facing movement. "Hope the others had better luck," I said, after they'd dragged me back. "And if they haven't... ?" asked Kelly. "Let's wait." They had. It was risky, though. There was no good way straight up out of the gap. The trail had ended at a forty-foot wail which, when mounted, gave a clear view all the way down. Leaning out as I had done and looking about two hundred feet to the left and eighty feet higher, however, Mallardi had rested his eyes on a rough way, but a way, nevertheless, leading up and west and vanishing. We camped in the gap that night. In the morning, I anchored my line to a rock, Doc tending, and went out with the pneumatic pistol. I fell twice, and made forty feet of trail by lunchtime. I rubbed my bruises then, and Henry took over. After ten feet, Kelly got out to anchor a couple of body-lengths behind him, and we tended Kelly. Then Stan blasted and Mallardi anchored. Then there had to be three on the face. Then four. By sundown, we'd made a hundred-fifty feet and were covered with white powder. A bath would have been nice. We settled for ultrasonic shakedowns. B y lunch the next day, we were all out there, roped together, hugging cold stone, moving slowly, painfully, slowly, not looking down much. By day's end, we'd made it across, to the place where we could hold on and feel something -- granted, not much -- beneath our boots. It was inclined to be a trifle scant, however, to warrant less than a full daylight assault. So we returneed once more to the gap. In the morning, we crossed. The way kept its winding angle. We headed west and up. We traveled a mile and made five hundred feet. We traveled another mile and made perhaps three hundred. Then a ledge occurred, about forty feet overhead. Stan went up the hard way, using the gun, to see what he could see. He gestured, and we followed; and the view that broke upon us was good. Down right, irregular but wide enough, was our new camp. The way above it, ice cream and whiskey sours and morning coffee and a cigarette after dinner. It was beautiful and delicious: a seventydegree slope full of ledges and projections and good clean stone. "Hot damn!" said Kelly. We all tended to agree. We ate and we drank and we decided to rest our bruised selves that afternoon. We were in the twilight world now, walking where no man had ever walked before, and we felt ourselves to be golden. It was good to stretch out and try to unache. I slept away the day, and when I awakened the sky was a bed of glowing embers. I lay there too lazy to move, too full of sight to go back to sleep. A meteor burnt its way bluewhite across the heavens. After a time, there was another. I thought upon my position and decided that reaching it was worth the price. The cold, hard happiness of the heights filled me. I wiggled my toes. After a few minutes, I stretched and sat up. I regarded the sleeping forms of my companions. I looked out across the night as far as I could see. Then I looked up at the IF mountain, then dropped my eyes slowly along tomorrow's trail. There was movement within shadow. Something was standing about fifty feet away and ten feet above. I picked up my pick and stood. I crossed the fifty and stared up. She was smiling, not burning. A woman, an impossible woman. Absolutely impossible. For one thing, she would just have to freeze to death in a mini-skirt and a sleeveless shell-top. No alternative. For another, she had very little to breathe. Like, nothing. But it didn't seem to bother her. She waved. Her hair was dark and long, and I couldn't see her eyes. The planes of her pale, high cheeks, wide forehead, small chin corresponded in an unsettling fashion with certain simple theorems which comprise the geometry of my heart. If all angles, planes, curves be correct, it skips a beat, then hurries to make up for it. I worked it out, felt it do so, said, "Hello." "Hello, Whitey," she replied. "Come down," I said. "No, you come up." I swung my pick. When I reached the ledge she wasn't there. I looked around, then I saw her. She was seated on a rock twelve feet above me. "How it is that you know my name?" I asked. "Anyone can see what your name must be." "All right," I agreed. "What's yours?" "... " Her lips seemed to move, but I heard nothing. "Come again?" "I don't want a name," she said "Okay. I'll call you 'girl,' then." She laughed, sort of. "What are you doing here? I asked. "Watching you." "Why?" "To see whether you'll fall." "I can save you the trouble," I said. "I won't." "Perhaps," she said. "Come down here," "No, you come up here." I climbed, but when I got there she was twenty feet higher. "Girl, you climb well," I said, and she laughed and turned away. I pursued her for five minutes and couldn't catch her. There was something unnatural about the way she moved. I stopped climbing when she turned again. We were still about twenty feet apart. "I take it you do not really wish me to join you," I said. "Of course I do, but you must catch me first." And she turned once more, and I felt a certain fury within me. It was written that no one could outclimb Mad Jack. I had written it. I swung my pick and moved like a lizard. I was near to her a couple of times, but never near enough. The day's aches began again in my muscles, but I pulled my way up without slackening my pace. I realized, faintly, that the camp was far below me now, and that I was climbing alone through the dark up a strange slope. But I did not stop. Rather, I hurried, and my breath began to come hard in my lungs. I heard her laughter, and it was a goad. Then I came upon a two-inch ledge, and she was moving along it. I followed, around a big bulge of rock to where it ended. Then she was ninety feet above me, at the top of a smooth pinnacle. It was like a tapering, branchless tree. How she'd accomplished it, I didn't know. I was gasping by then, but I looped my line around it and began to climb. As I did this, she spoke: "Don't you ever tire, Whitey? I thought you would have collapsed by now." I hitched up the line and climbed further. "You can't make it up here, you know." "I don't know," I grunted. "Why do you want so badly to climb here? There are other nice mountains." "This is the biggest, girl. That's why." "It can't be done." "Then why all this bother to discourage me? Why not just let the mountain do it?" As I neared her, she vanished. I made it to the top, where she had been standing, and I collapsed there. Then I heard her voice again and turned my head. She was on a ledge, perhaps eighty feet away. "I didn't think you'd make it this far," she said. "You are a fool. Good-by, Whitey." She was gone. I sat there on the pinnacle's tiny top -- perhaps four square feet of top -- and I knew that I couldn't sleep there, because I'd fall. And I was tired. I recalled my favorite curses and I said them all, but I didn't feel any better. I couldn't let myself go to sleep. I looked down. I knew the way was long. I knew she didn't think I could make it. I began the descent. T he following morning when they shook me, I was still tired. I told them the last night's tale, and they didn't believe me. Not until later in the day, that is, when I detoured us around the bulge and showed them the pinnacle, standing there like a tapering, branchless tree, ninety feet in the middle of the air. V W e went steadily upward for the next two days. We made slightly under ten thousand feet. Then we spent a day hammering and hacking our way up a great flat face. Six hundred feet of it. Then our way was to the right and upward. Before long we were ascending the western side of the mountain. When we broke ninety thousand feet, we stopped to congratulate ourselves that we had just surpassed the Kasla climb and to remind ourselves that we had still had not hit the halfway mark. It took us another two and a half days to do that, and by then the land lay like a map beneath us. IF And then, that night, we all saw the creature with the sword. He came and stood near our camp, and he raised his sword above his head, and it blazed with such a terrible intensity that I slipped on my goggles. His voice was all thunder and lightning this time: "Get off this mountain!" he said. "Now! Turn back! Go down! Depart!" And then a shower of stones came down from above and rattled about us. Doc tossed his slim, shiny case, causing it to skim along the ground toward the creature. The light went out, and we were alone. Doc retrieved his case, took tests, met with the same success as before -- i.e. f none. But now at least he didn't think I was some kind of balmy, unless of course he thought we all were. "Not a very effective guardian," Henry suggested. "We've a long way to go yet," said Vince, shying a stone through the space the creature had occupied. "I don't like it if the thing can cause a slide." "That was just a few pebbles," said Stan. "Yeah, but what if he decided to start them fifty thousand feet higher?" "Shut up!" said Kelly. "Don't give him any ideas. He might be listening." For some reason, we drew closer together. Doc made each of us describe what we had seen, and it appeared that we all had seen the same thing. "All right," I said, after we'd finished. "Now you've all seen it, who wants to go back?" There was silence. After perhaps half a dozen heartbeats, Henry said, "I want the whole story. It looks like a good one. I'm angry energy creatures in order to get it." "I don't know what the thing is," said Kelly. "Maybe it's no energy creature. Maybe it's something -- supernatural -- I know what you'll say, Doc. I'm just telling you how it struck me. If there are such things, this seems a good place for them. Point is -- whatever it is, I don't care. I want this mountain. If it could have stopped us, I think it would've done it already. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it can. Maybe it's laid some trap for us higher up. But I want this mountain. Right now, it means more to me than anything. If I don't go up, I'll spend all my time wondering about it -- and then I'll probably come back and try it again some day, when it gets so I can't stand thinking about it any more. Only then, maybe the rest of you won't be available. Let's face it, we're a good climbing team. Maybe , the best in the business. Probably. If it can be done, I think we can do it." "I'll second that," said Stan. VV Mallardi, "about it being supernatural -- it's funny, because I felt the same thing for a minute when I was looking at it. It reminds me of something out of the Divine Comedy . If you recall, Purgatory was a mountain. And then I thought of the angel who guarded the eastern way to Eden. Eden had gotten moved to the top of Purgatory hy Dante -- and there was this angel... Anyhow, I felt almost like I was committing some sin I didn't know about by being here. But now that I think it over, a man can't be guilty of something he doesn't know is wrong, can he? And I didn't see that thing flashing any up and see what's on top, unless he comes back with the Tablets of the Law, with a new one written in at the bottom." "In Hebrew or Italian?" asked Doc. "To satisfy you, I suppose they'd have to be drawn up in the form of equations." "No," he said. "Kidding aside, I felt something funny too, when I saw it and heard it. And we didn't really hear it, you know. It skipped over the senses and got its message right into our brains. If you think back over our descriptions of what we experienced, we each 'heard different words telling us to go away. If it can communicate a meaning as well as a psychtranslator, I wonder if it can communicate an emotion, also... You thought of an angel, too, didn't you, Whitey?" "Yes," I said. "That makes it almost unanimous then, doesn't it?" Then we all turned to Vince, because he had no Christian background at all, having been raised as a Buddhist on Ceylon. "What were your feelings concerning the thing?" Doc asked him. "It was a Deva," he said, "a sort of like an angel, I guess. I had the impression that every step I took up this mountain gave me enough bad karma to fill a lifetime. Except I haven't believed in it that way since I was a kid. I want to go ahead, up. Even if that feeling was correct, I want to see the top of this mountain." "So do I," said Doc. "That makes it unanimous," I said. "Well, everybody hang onto his angelsbane," said Stan, "and let's sack out." "Good idea." "Only let's spread out a bit," said Doc, "so that anything falling won't get all of us together." We did that cheerful thing and slept untroubled by heaven. O ur way kept winding right, until we were at a hundred fortyfour thousand feet and were mounting the southern slopes. Then it jogged back, and by a hundred fifty we were mounting to the west once more. Then, during a devilish, dark and tricky piece of scaling, up a smooth, concave bulge ending in an overhand, the bird came down once again. If we hadn't been roped together, Stan would have died. As it was, we almost all died. Stan was lead man, as its wings splashed sudden flames against the violet sky. It came down from the overhang as though someone had IF kicked a bonfire over its edge, beaded straight toward him and faded out at a distance of about twelve feet. He fell then, almost taking the rest of us with him. We tensed our muscles and took the shock. He was battered a bit, but unbroken. We made it up to the overhang, but went no further that day. Rocks did fall, but we found another overhang and made camp beneath it. The bird did not return that day, but the snakes came. Big, shimmering scarlet serpents coiled about the crags, wound in and out of jagged fields of ice and gray stone. Sparks shot along their sinuous lengths. They coiled and unwound, stretched and turned, spat fires at us. It seemed they were trying to drive us from beneath the sheltering place to where the rocks could come down upon us. Doc advanced upon the nearest one, and it vanished as it came within the field of his projector. He studied the place where it had lain, then hurried back. "The frost is still on the punkin," he said. "Huh?" said I. "Not a bit of ice was melted beneath it." "Indicating?" "Illusion," said Vince, and he threw a stone at another and it passed through the thing. "But you saw what happened to my pick," I said to Doc, 'Svhen I took a cut at that bird. The thing had to have been carrying some kind of charge." "Maybe whatever has been sending them has cut that part out, as a waste of energy," he replied, "since the things can't get through to us anyhow." We sat around and watched the snakes and falling rocks, until Stan produced a deck of cards and suggested a better game. T he snakes stayed on through the night and followed us the next day. Rocks still fell periodically, but the boss seemed to be running low on them. The bird appeared, circled us and swooped on four different occasions. But this time we ignored it, and finally it went home to roost. We made three thousand feet, could have gone more, but didn't want to press it past a cozy little ledge with a cave big enough for the whole party, Everything let up on us then. Everything visible, that is. A before-the-storm feeling, a still, electrical tension, seemed to occur around us then, and we waited for whatever was going to happen to happen. The worst possible thing happened: nothing. This keyed-up feeling, this expectancy, stayed with us, was unsatisfied. I think it would actually have been a relief if some invisible orchestra had begun playing Wagner, or if the heavens had rolled aside like curtains and revealed a movie screen, and from the backward lettering we knew we were on the other side, or if we saw a high-flying dragon eating low-flying weather satellites... As it was, we just kept feeling that something was imminent, and it gave me insomnia. During the night, she came again. The pinnacle girl. She stood at the mouth of the cave, and when I advanced she retreated. I stopped just inside and stood there myself, where she had been standing. She said, "Hello, Whitey." "No, I'm not going to follow you again," I said. "I didn't ask you to." "What's a girl like you doing in a place like this?" "Watching," she said. "I told you I won't fall." "Your friend almost did." "'Almost isn't good enough." "You are the leader, aren't you?" "That's right." "If you were to die, the others would go back?" "No," I said, "they'd go on without me." I hit my camera then. "What did you just do?" she asked. "I took your picture -- if you're really there." "Why?" "To look at after you go away. I like to look at pretty things." "... " she seemed to say something. "What?" "Nothing." "Why not?" " die." "Please speak up." "She dies..." she said. "Why? How?" M... on mountain." "I don't understand." "What's wrong?" I took a step forward, and she retreated a step. "Follow me?" she asked. "No." "Go back," she said. "What's on the other side of that record?" "You will continue to climb?" "Yes." Then, "Good!" she said suddenly. "I -- ," and her voice stopped again. "Go back," she finally said, without emotion. "Sorry." And she was gone. VI O ur trail took us slowly to the left once more. We crawled and sprawled and cut holes in the stone. Snakes sizzled in the distance. They were with us constantly now. The bird came again at crucial moments, to try to make us fall. A raging bull stood on a crag and bellowed down at us. Phantom archers loosed shafts of fire, which always faded right before they struck. Blazing blizzards swept at us, around us, were gone. We were back on the northern slopes and still heading west by the time we broke a hundred sixty thousand. The sky was deep and blue, and there were always stars. Why did the mountain hate us? I wondered. What was there about us to provoke this thing? I looked at the picture of the girl for the dozenth time and I wondered what she really was. Had IF she been picked from our minds and composed into girlform to lure us, to lead us, sirenlike, harpylike, to the place of the final fall? It was such a long way down... I thought back over my life. How does a man come to climb mountains? Is he drawn by the heights because he is afraid of the level land? Is he such a misfit in the society of men that he must flee and try to place himself above it? The way up is long and difficult, but if he #uoceeds they must grant him a garland of sorts. And if he falls, this too is a kind of glory. To end, hurled from the heights to the depths in hideous ruin and combustion down, is a fitting climax for the loser -- for it, too, shakes mountains and minds, stirs things like thoughts below both, is a kind of blasted garland of victory in defeat, and cold, so cold that final action, that the movement is somewhere frozen forever into a statuelike rigidity of ultimate intent and purpose thwarted only by the universal malevolence we all fear exists. An aspirant saint or hero who lacks some necessary virtue may still qualify as a matyr, for the only thing that people will really remember in the end is the end. I had known that I'd had to climb Kasla, as I had climbed all the others, and I had known what the price would be. It had cost me my only home. But Kasla was there, and my boots cried out for my feet. I knew as I did so that somewhere I set them upon her summit, and below me a world was ending. What's a world if the moment of victory is at hand? And if truth, beauty and goodness be one, why is there always this conflict among them? The phantom archers fired upon me and the bright bird swooped. I set my teeth, and my boots scarred rocks beneath me. e saw the top. At a hundred seventy-six thousand feet, making our way along a narrow ledge, clicking against rock, testing our way with our picks, we heard Vince say, "Look!" . We did. Up and up, and again further, bluefrosted and sharp, deadly, and cold as Loki's dagger, slashing at the sky, it vibrated above us like electricity, hung like a piece of frozen thunder, and cut, cut, cut into the center of spirit that was desire, twisted, and became a fishhook to pull us on, to burn us with its barbs. Vince was the first to look up and see the top, the first to die. It happened so quickly, and it was none of the terrors that achieved it. He slipped. That was all. It was a difficult piece of climbing. He was right behind me one second, was gone the next. There was no body to recover. He'd taken the long drop. The soundless blue was all around him and the great gray beneath. Then we were six. We shuddered, and I suppose we all prayed in our own ways. -- Gone Vince, may some good Deva lead you up the Path of Splendor. May you find whatever you wanted most at the other end, waiting there for you. If such a thing may foe, remember those who say these words, oh strong intruder in the sky... No one spoke much for the rest of the day. The fiery sword bearer came and stood above our camp the entire night. It did not speak. In the morning, Stan was gone, and there was a note beneath my pack. Don't hate me, it said, for running out, but l think it really is an angel . I'm scared of this mountain. I'll climb any pile of rocks, but l won't fight Heaven. The way down is easier than the way up, so don't worry about me. Good luck. Try to understand. S. So we were five -- Doc and Kelly and Henry and Mallardi and me -- and that day we hit a hundred eighty thousand and felt very alone. The girl came again that night and spoke to me, black hair against black sky and eyes like points of blue fire, and she stood beside an icy pillar and said: "Two of you have gone." "And the rest of us remain," I replied. "For a time." "We will climb to the top and then we will go away," I said. "How can that do you harm? Why do you hate us?" "No hate, sir," she said. "What, then?" "I protect." "What? What is it that you protect?" "The dying, that she may live." "What? Who is dying? How?" But her words went away somewhere, and I did not hear them. Then she went away too, and there was nothing left but sleep for the rest of the night. O ne hundred eighty-two thousand and three, and four, and five. Then back down to four for the following night. The creatures whined about us now, and the land pulsed beneath us, and the mountain seemed sometimes to sway as we climbed. We carved a path to one eighty-six, and for three days we fought to gain another thousand feet. Everything we touched was cold and slick and slippery, sparkled, and had a bluish haze about it. When we hit one ninety, Henry looked back and shuddered. "I'm no longer worried about making it to the top," he said. "It's the return trip that's bothering me now. The clouds are like little wisps of cotton way down there." "The sooner up, the sooner down," I said, and we began to climb once again. It took us another week to cut our way to within a mile of the top. All the creatures of fire had withdrawn, but two ice avalanches showed us we were still unwanted. We survived the first without mishap, but Kelly sprained his right ankle during the second, and Doc thought he might have cracked a couple of ribs, too. We made a camp. Doc stayed there with him; Henry and Mallardi and I pushed on up the last mile. Now the going was beastly. It had become a mountain of glass. We had IF to hammer out a hold for every municator to Doc's letter and called foot we made. We worked in shifts, below. I tuned in in time to hear We fought for everything we gained, him say, "Haven't seen him." Our packs became monstrous loads "How's Kelly?" I asked, and our fingers grew numb. Our "Better," he replied. "Those ribs defense system -- the projectors -- might not be cracked at that." the projectors -- seemed to be wearThen Mallardi called us. ing down, or else something was in"I'm four hundred feet above creasing its efforts to get us, beyou, fellows," his voice came in. "It cause the snakes kept slithering was easy up to here, but the going's closer, burning brighter. They hurt just gotten rough again." my eyes, and I cursed them. "Why'd you cut out on your When we were within a thousand own?" I asked, feet of the top, we dug in and made "Because I think something's goanother camp. The next couple ing to try to kill me before too hundred feet looked easier, then a long," he said. "It's up ahead, waitrotten spot, and I couldn't tell what ing at the top. You can probably it was like above that. even see it from there. It's a snake." When we awakened, there was Henry and I used the binoculars, just Henry and myself. There was Snake? A better word might be no indication of where Mallardi had dragon -- or maybe even Midgaard gotten to. Henry switched his comSerpent. It was coiled around the peak, head upraised. It seemed to be several hundred feet in length, and it moved its head from side to side, and up and down, and it smoked solar coronas. Then I spotted Mallardi climbing toward it. "Don't go any further!" I called. "I don't know whether your unit will protect you against anything like that! Wait'll I call Doc -- " "Not a chance," he said. "This baby is mine." "Listen! You can be first on the mountain, if that's what you want! But don't tackle that thing alone!" "A laugh was the only reply." "All three units might hold it off," I said. "Wait for us." There was no answer, and we began to climb. I left Henry far below me. The creature was a moving light in the sky. I made two hundred feet in a hurry, and when I looked up again, I saw that the creature had grown two more heads. Lightnings flashed from its nostrils, and its tail whipped around the mountain. I made another hundred feet, and I could see Mallardi clearly by then, climbing steadily, outlined against the brilliance. I swung my pick, gasping, and I fought the mountain, following the trail he had cut. I began to gain on him, because he was still pounding out his way and I didn't have that problem. Then I heard him talking: "Not yet, big fella, not yet," he was saying, from behind a wall of static. "Here's a ledge... " I looked up, and he vanished. Then that fiery tail came lashing down toward where I had last seen him, and I heard him curse and I felt the vibrations of his pneumatic gun. The tail snapped back again, and I heard another "Damn!" I made haste, stretching and rocking myself and grabbing at the holds he had cut, and then I heard him burst into song. Something from Aida , I think. "Damn it! Wait up!" I said. "I'm only a few hundred feet behind." He kept on singing. I was beginning to get dizzy, but I couldn't let myself slow down. My right arm felt like a piece of wood, my left like a piece of ice. My feet were hooves, and my eyes burned in my head. Then it happened. Like a bomb, the snake and the swinging ended in a flash of brilliance that caused me to sway and almost lose my grip. I clung to the vibrating mountainside and squeezed my eyes against the light. "Mallardi?" I said. No answer. Nothing. I looked down. Henry was still clinging. I continued to climb. I reached the ledge Mallardi had mentioned, found him there. His respirator was still working. His protective suit was blackened and scorched on the right side. Half of his pick had been melted away. I raised his shoulders. I turned up the volume on the communicator and heard him breathing. His eyes opened, closed, opened. "Okay..." he said. IF " 'Okay, hell! Where do you hurt?" "No place... I feel jus' fine... Listen! I think it's used up its juice for awhile... Go plant the flag. Prop me up here first, though. I wanna watch... " I got him into a better position, squirted the water bulb, listened to him swallow. Then I waited for Henry to catch up. It took about six minutes. "I'll stay here," said Henry, stooping beside him. "You go do it." "I started up the final slope. I swung and I cut and I blasted and I crawled. Some of the ice had been melted, the rocks scorched. Nothing came to oppose me. The static had gone with the dragon. There was silence, and darkness between stars. I climbed slowly, still tired from that last sprint, but determined not to stop. All but sixty feet of the entire world lay beneath me, and heaven hung above me, and a rocket winked overhead. Perhaps it was the pressmen, with zoom cameras. Fifty feet... No bird, no archer, no angel, no girl. Forty feet... I started to shake. It was nervous tension. I steadied myself, went on. Thirty feet... and the mountain seemed to be swaying now. Twenty-five... and I grew dizzy, halted, took a drink. Then click, click, my pick again. Twenty... Fifteen... Ten... I braced myself against the mountain's final assault, whatever it might be. Five... Nothing happened as I arrived. I stood up. I could go no higher. I looked at the sky, I looked back down. I waved at the blazing rocket exhaust. I extruded the pole and attached the flag. I planted it, there where no breezes would ever stir it. I cut in my communicator, said, "I'm here." No other words. I t was time to go back down and give Henry his chance, but I looked down the western slope before I turned to go. The lady was winking again. Perhaps eight hundred feet below, the red light shone. Could that have been what I had seen from the town during the storm, on that night, so long ago? "I didn't know and I had to. I spoke into the communicator. "How's Mallardi doing?" "I just stood up," he answered. "Give me another half hour, and I'm coming up myself." "Henry," I said. "Should he?" "Gotta take his word how he feels," said Lanning. "Well," I said, "then take it easy. I'll be gone when you get here. I'm going a little way down the western side. Something I want to see." "What?" "I dunno. That's why I want to see." 'Take care." "Check" The western slope was an easy descent. As I went down it, I realized that the light was coming from an opening in the side of the mountain. Half an hour later, I stood before it. I stepped within and was dazzled. I walked toward it and stopped. It pulsed and quivered and sang. A vibrating wall of flame leapt from the floor of the cave, towered to the roof of the cave. It blocked my way, when I wanted to go beyond it. She was there, and I wanted to reach her. I took a step forward, so that I was only inches away from it. My communicator was full of static and my arms of cold needles. It did not bend toward me, as to attack. It cast no heat. I stared through the veil of fires to where she reclined, her eyes closed, her breast unmoving. I stared at the bank of machinery beside the far wall. "I'm here," I said, and I raised my pick. When its point touched the wall of flame someone took the lid off hell, and I staggered back, blinded. When my vision cleared, the angel stood before me. " You may not pass here " he said. "She is the reason you want me to go back?" I asked. "Yes. Go back "Has she no say in the matter?" "She sleeps. Go back "So I notice. Why?" "She must. Go back, "Why did she herself appear to me and lead me strangely?" "I used up the fear-forms I knew. They did not work. I led you strangely because her sleeping mind touches upon my workings. It did so especially when  borrowed her form , so that it interfered with the directive. Go back." "What is the directive?" "She is to be guarded against all things coming up the mountain. Go back.' "Why? Why is she guarded?" "She sleeps. Go back! The conversation having become somewhat circular at that point, I reached into my pack and drew out the projector. I swung it forward and the angel melted. The flames bent away from my outstretched hand. I sought to open a doorway in the circle of fire. It worked, sort of. I pushed the projector forward, and the flames bent and bent and bent and finally broke. When they broke, I leaped forward. I made it through, but my protective suit was as scorched as Mallardi's. I moved to the coffinlike locker within which she slept. I rested my hands on its edge and looked down. She was as fragile as ice. In fact, she was ice... The machine came alive with lights then, and I felt her somber bedstead vibrate. Then I saw the man. IF He was half sprawled across a metal chair beside the machine. He, too, was ice. Only his features were gray, were twisted. He wore black and he was dead and a statue, while she was sleeping and a statue. She wore blue, and white... There was an empty casket in the far corner... But something was happening around me. There came a brightening of the air. Yes, it was air. It hissed upward from frosty jets in the floor, formed into great clouds. Then a feeling of heat occurred and the clouds began to fade and the brightening continued. I returned to the casket and studied her features. I wondered what her voice would sound like whenif she spoke. I wondered what lay within her mind. I wondered how her thinking worked, and what she liked and didn't like. I wondered what her eyes had looked upon, and when. I wondered all these things, because I could see that whatever forces I had set into operation when I entered the circle of fire were causing her, slowly, to cease being a statue. She was being awakened. I waited. Over an hour went by, and still I waited, watching her. She began to breathe. Her eyes opened at last, and for a long time she did not see. Then her bluefire fell upon me. "Whitey," she said. "Yes." "Where am I... ?" "In the damnedest place I could possibly have found anyone." She frowned. "I remember," she said and tried to sit up. It didn't work. She fell back. "What is your name?" "Linda," she said. Then, "I dreamed of you, Whitey. Strange dreams... How could that be?" "It's tricky," I said. "I knew you were coming," she said. "I saw you fighting monsters on a mountain as high as the sky." "Yes, we're there now." "H-have you the cure?" "Cure? What cure?" "Dawson's Plague," she said. I felt sick. I felt sick because I realized that she did not sleep as a prisoner, but to postpone her death. She was sick. "Did you come to live on this world in a ship that moved faster than light?" I asked. "No," she said. "It took centuries to get here. We slept the cold sleep during the journey. This is one of the bunkers." She gestured toward the casket with her eyes. I noticed her cheeks had become bright red. "They all began dying -- of the plague," she said. "There was no cure. My husband -- Carl -- is a doctor. When he saw that I had it, he said he would keep me in extreme hypothermia until a cure was found. Otherwise, you only live for two days, you know." Then she stared up at me, and I realized that her last two words had been a question. I moved into a position to block her view of the dead man, who I feared must be her Carl. I tried to follow her husband's thinking. He'd had to hurry, as he was obviously further along than she had been. He knew the colony would be wiped out. He must have loved her and been awfully clever, both -- awfully resourceful. Mostly, though, he must have loved her. Knowing that the colony would die, he knew it would be centuries before another ship arrived. He had nothing that could power a cold bunker for that long. But up here, on the top of this mountain, almost as cold as outer space itself, power wouldn't be necessary. Somehow, he had got Linda and the stuff up here. His machine cast a force field around the cave. Working in heat and atmosphere, he had sent her deep into the cold sleep and then prepared his own bunker. When he dropped the wall of forces, no power would be necessary to guarantee the long, icy wait. They could sleep for centuries within the bosom of the Gray Sister, protected by a colony of defense-computer. This last had apparently been programmed quickly, for he was dying. He saw that it was too late to join her. He hurried to set the thing for basic defense, killed the force field, and then went his way into that Dark and Secret Place. Thus it hurled its birds and its angels and its snakes, it raised its walls of fireagainst me. He died, and it guarded her in her near-death -- against everything, including those who would help. My coming to the mountain had activated it. My passing of the defenses had caused her to be summoned back to life. "Go back!" I heard the machine say through its projected angel, for Henry had entered the cave. #VT y God!" I heard him say. #VI who's that?" "Get Doc!" I said. "Hurry! I'll explain later. It's a matter of life! Climb back to where your communicator will work, and tell him it's Dawson's Plague -- a bad local bug! Hurry!" "I'm on my way," he said and was. "There is a doctor?" she asked. "Yes. Only about two hours away. Don't worry... I still don't see how anyone could have gotten you up here to the top of this mountain, let alone a load of machines." "We're on the big mountain -- the fortymiler?" "Yes." "How did you get up?" she asked. "I climbed it." "You really climbed Purgatorio? On the outside?" "Purgatorio? That's what you call it? Yes, I climbed it, that way." "We didn't think it could be done." "How else might one arrive at its top?" "It's hollow inside," she said. "There are great caves and massive passages. It's easy to fly up the inside in a pressurized jet car. In fact, it was an amusement ride. Two and a half dollars per person. An hour and a half each way. A dollar to rent a pressurized suit and take an hour's walk around the top. Nice way to spend an afternoon. Beautiful view... ?" She gasped deeply. IF "I don't feel so good," she said. "Have you any water?" "Yes," I said, and I gave her all I had. As she sipped it, I prayed that Doc had the necessary serum or else would be able to send her back to ice and sleep until it could be gotten. I prayed that he would make good time, for two hours seemed long when measured against her thirst and the red of her flesh. "My fever is coming again," she said. "Talk to me, Whitey, please... Tell me things. Keep me with you till he comes. I don't want my mind to turn back upon what has happened... " "What would you like me to tell you about, Linda?" "Tell me why you did it. Tell me what it was like, to climb a mountain like this one. Why?" I turned my mind back upon what had happened. "There is a certain madness involved," I said, "a certain envy of great and powerful natural forces, that some men have. Each mountain is a deity, you know. Each is an immortal power. If you make sacrifices upon its slopes, a mountain may grant you a certain grace, and for a time you will share this power. Perhaps that is why they call me... " Her hand rested in mine. I hoped that through it whatever power I might contain would hold all of her with me for as long as ever possible. "I remember the first time that I saw Purgatory, Linda," I told her. "I looked at it and I was sick. I wondered, where did it lead... ?" (Stars. Oh let there be. This once to end with. Please.) "Stars?" ft  S? A   m  ra  m,    I i i g  by Hayden Howard by Richard Wilson by Jack Vance In the December Galaxy -- on sale new!  i I   : X IF  Short Story W hen the buzzer sounded I paused only to check my uniform, then stepped through the door and threw the admiral a snappy salute. As his orderly, that's what I always do when he buzzes, even on the moon. Of course on the moon, with any weight carried up from Earth at a premium and the environment controlled, the uniform isn't much, even for an admiral's orderly: briefs, duty belt, cap and boots; but I always give it a quick check anyway. The Old Man has the eyes of a hawk and the disposition of a bear trap. And there's no sense in sitting on a bear trap if you don't have to -- it chews mighty deep. The admiral glanced up through those shaggy white eyebrows of his and nodded when I saluted. He didn't answer the salute, of course. He was uncovered. "Christensen," he said, "get me Jennings. On the double." I saluted again and stepped back into the passageway. Things weren't too bad. If I was in trouble with him, he called me Orderly. If everything was calm, he called me Corporal. On a few occasions when he was feeling extra good, he has called me Sven. When someone else is in trouble, it's Corporal Christensen. And when his brain is just in high gear about something, it's always just Christensen. Commander Jennings was skipper of the U.S.S.N.S. Tombaugh, the Space Navy ship that had brought Admiral Jones from Earth orbit tothe moon to clean up the war the hard way -- sitting at one side of a conference table. Of course, the fact that Jennings' job was done when he landed his ship at the Space Port, that he wouldn't be on duty again until a few hours before teke-off was scheduled and that he didn't even have to tell the duty officer where he was going didn't cut any ice with the Old Man. He wanted Jennings, and it was my job as orderly to produce him. W ell, I knew old Hot Shot -- that's Jennings' name when he isn't around -- likes to play poker, and he likes to win. I also knew that he's smart enough to know that he doesn't play poker very well. So I called the number of the Fourth Regiment Advanced Base -- about twenty miles down the cover road from the Main Highway toward the Red lines -- and asked to speak to Commander Jennings. That outfit plays the lousiest brand of high  stakes poker on the moon. "The admiral's compliments," I translated, when they had coaxed Hot Shot to the 'phone, "and he requests that the commander call on him at his Headquarters at the commander's earliest convenience." In case you don't translate as good as Hot Shot did, that means just what the admiral said: "on the double." The admiral stood up when I announced Commander Jennings a few minutes later and seemed to look down at him. That, by the way, is quite a trick, considering that the admiral is five foot six, and that's four inches shorter than Hot Shot. The admiral didn't wave me out, so I stood there looking down at Commander Jennings too, which is easy for me because I've got eight inches of height on him. Hie admiral sounded bitter. "It looks as if the Reds may just possibly be trying to give us a run around," he said without any preliminaries. "Back on Earth they talk about being anxious for peace negotiations, but it's all pure propaganda. I've been up here on this God-forsaken ball for almost four weeks, and we haven't even been able to agree on where to meet. Well, Hot Shot, I'm not going t continue to sit still for it. Can you set your fire buggy down on the Main Highway, in the middle of that crossroads place where the Reds cut their road into it?" "Yes, sir," said the pilot. 'That's a simple suborbital flight." "That won't do, and you know it," growled the admiral. "They'd just shoot us down and apologize later. You'd have to stay under five hundred feet all the way." I almost caught myself nodding in in agreement. In the ten years we and the Reds had been fighting on the moon -- which the longhairs said had, during most of that time, helped us all keep things peaceful down on Earth -- anything lobbed anywhere around the moon on a ballistic trajectory, either orbitally or suborbitally, by either side, was automatically shot down. Except for ships coming in from Earth and landing at one of the two spaceports. Both sides let the big ships come and go, so they could bring in supplies to live and fight with. And take home the high-paid volunteers who didn't reup when their time expired. Fighting men get high pay on the moon, unless they're regulars like the admiral and me. And according to law, # hadn't had to go with him to the moon, except I hadn't had the guts to tell the Old Man good-by. It's the low lunar gravity that makes it easy to shoot down even mortar shells; a big ship would have about the same chance of surviving -- none at a!!. So, even though I'm not a Looney, I almost nodded. "Yes, sir," said Hot Shot after fiddling for a few minutes with the slide rule he pulled out of the pouch sewn to his briefs. I noticed there was a good deal of green folding stuff crammed into the pouch, too. Leaving that game must really have hurt him. "I have enough control to drift right down the highway on the main engines and the fuel to get  there and back. Of course, we'll have to clear off the traffic first to keep from scorching them with our jets." "Good. I'll exchange notes with the Muscovites for three more days. By that time I should have them boxed in so they won't be able to avoid meeting me on neutral ground, providing they don't think about a ship-to-ship meeting. What good that will do us, God only knows; but we'll try to solve that when we come to it. "Sven," he said, turning to me, "when my ship shows up at the crossroads -- you know the place -- I'll expect you to be there with a tube that will connect my airlock with theirs. You go off and get that attended to, and I don't expect to see you until then. Take three days off; you've earned it." "Aye, aye sir. And will the admiral have a requirement for a substitute orderly? There is one of the soldier volunteers who would be able to handle the job for the admiral." The Old Man glared at me through his eyebrows. "What's to handle? You spend ninety percent of your time on your butt outside my door, and in this light gravity you'd even lose your callouses there, if I let you. At fifteen times what Uncle pays you, a volunteer for three days isn't worth my trouble in trying to train him. Now get going, both of you." I held the curtain aside for Hot Shot, saluted and left behind him. I knew why the admiral had given me three free days, and I didn't like it. Oh, I liked the time off just fine. There was plenty of good use I could make of it; but I didn't like the reason he had given it to me. The Old Man would deny it, but he's superstitious. I wangled three days leave out of him way back when he was stuck on a solution for that Grombock affair, at the Polar station, and right after I got back from that, everything fell into place. And IF the second time, on Guam; and the third time on the Orbital Station; each time he let me off for three days, he got the problem solved. You'd think he'd just get rid of me entirely, wouldn't you? But like I said, he's superstitious. It's three days or nothing. And by letting me off, for those three days, he was saying that he didn't have any more ideas than I did about how to handle the situation. And I didn't have any, or care to have any. T aking care of the job he had assigned me didn't take much time, even though nobody was sure what ship the Russians would use or what size airlock it would have. I trotted over to the motor pool, still wearing my orderly belt and boots, and drew out a moon jeep. They tried to give me a little static about how tricky it is to drive on the moon, but I flashed my operator's card -- good for everything from a moonbug on up to a full-sized refuelling rig. I'd spent my first free time getting checked out and qualified -- you never know what the Old Man will want. Then I picked up a pound of coffee from the admiral's mess and went over to the Experimental Devices Supply Center to draw out a gadget I knew about: a Tube, Universal, Airlock Connector, Collapsible, Sixty Foot, Experimental. I didn't plan to sign a requisition, because experimental devices can't be drawn out officially by anybody but the longhairs. They're supposed to be used only under carefully controlled conditions until approved for service applications. Even as it is, when one of their experimental gizmos doesn't pan out right, they sometimes have to scrape up bits of long-hair to find enough to bury. This one worked right, even though the longhairs hadn't found it out yet. One of the supply sergeants was named Sally -- one of not too many female volunteer soldiers on the moon. Of course, I didn't make enough money even to think about her, but she made plenty and was tired of volunteers. She was real interested in a professional in a Marine uniform -- even a moonstyle Marine uniform -- and had no objections to my being six foot six. My size did turn out to be a disadvantage in any of the moon buggies, though -- their cabins are all cramped -- so we had loaded the experimental Airlock Connector on a jeep, ran it up a canyon, connected one end of it to one door of the jeep and the other to the other door, pumped in air and used that for getting better acquainted. So I knew the tube would do the trick. It fits most any size of door or airlock. As it turned out, I didn't need the coffee. Sally was on duty, but just going off. So we gave the tube one more test, and then, after I stowed the thing in the jeep and barracks -- carefully patrolled to keep the men out and the girls safe -- I was on my. own with plenty of time to spare. B ecause of the problems of living on a Marine corporal's pay, I usually try to have some small additional source of picking up a little of the long green wherever I go. Normally, a deck of cards and a little game with a bunch of boots can turn a tidy profit, but on the moon that was out. When even Hot Shot could win a pouchful, I wasn't worried about being outclassed; I just didn't have enough scratch for the initial stake. There was one great universal need that was in even shorter supply on the moon than girls: drinking liquor. Like I said before, it costs a great deal of money to ship anything from Earth. Liquor never managed to get very high on the priority lists because the bureaucrats made up the priority lists, and they never went to the moon. There was some for the officers, of course, but most of the men on the moon weren't officers, even if their pay was a lot higher than officers get, Earthside. So, as soon as I got to the moon, this corporal decided to engage in a little private enterprise to fill the need. I should have realized that with all the demand, there would have been plenty of stills and bootthere was some good reason to prevent it. And I don't mean the law. M.P.'s like a snort now and then, too. The trouble was raw materials. The moon doesn't have any, of course. Usually, you start with some letft-over stuff and ferment it and then run it through a still. And I couldn't get my hands on any leftover stuff, like potato peels or raisins or overripe fruit or (anything that I've used in the past. Dehydrated and preprepared foods are efficient for shipping to the moon, I suppose, but they're hell on private enterprise. I managed to scrounge some raw materials from the admiral's mess and the officers' messes'. Net really left overs, just some food that wouldn't be missed on the records... And either those stewards were real thirsty, or they are expert gougers; they made me promise them so much of my initial output, that there wasn't much left for profit, especially after I allowed a little for me and Sally. The still was easy to rig, of course. A ready-made vacuum and the sun up a couple of weeks at a time for power (with extra suit-batteries for use during the night time) made the production part of the job real simple. I made my headquarters in a little cave, well off the beaten track. Before I got my three-days-off, I'd had time to brew up a batch and run it back to about # proof -- I'm an honest man -- moon juice tasted very good to me and Sally. And I didn't get any complaints from the stewards either. But after finishing with a little lubrication for the M.P.'s and the MastersatArms and such, there hadn't been any out of that first batch to sell, and I hadn't been able to pick up nearly as many raw materials for a second hatch as I would have liked. Still, I'd dumped my old load of used mash at the back of the cave and had reloaded my brew vat with what I had. Since this was my profit run and IF I was anxious about it, the first thing I did when I left Sally with the moon jeep was to hustle over to the cave to see how my stuff was making out. A t first, I couldn't even find the cave. After I drove past where the entrance ought to be a couple of times, I stopped the jeep, checked my suit and got out to walk and hunt. It wasn't until I got right up to the rock face that I found that the cave was still there. It was just idl full of something -- full to overflowing. Whatever it was, the stuff bulged out of the cave until it reached a place where the rays of the sun had hit it, I guess, earlier in the "morning," and that had stopped it. Have you ever heard of "moonwort?" Everybody has, I suppose. It's the only living thing they have found on the moon so far, except soldiers, and the papers and magazines have given it a big play. At any rate, it isn't exactly a plant, but it certainly isn't an animal; and it has only been found in a few places in caves where the sun can't hit it directly, and it's almost too small to see with the naked eye. Well, I had seen some moonwort through a microscope, and this was it, only a good many thousands of times bigger. No plant was going to keep me from my still, even if moonwort isn't exactly a plant. So I pulled some of it aside and trampled some more of it down and worked my way in to see how my mash was making out. The longhairs tell me that my rough treatment of the moonwort was one of the dumbest things I've ever done. They say that I hod no way of telling how delicate that stuff -- they simplify their words for it to "Hypertrophied mooewert" when they talk to me -- might be, and that all of it might just have curled up and died. They say that I should have stayed away from it and called in experts like them to handle it properly. Oh, yes; they also add that moonwort might, for all I knew, have been able to dissolve my space suit. Since that wouldn't have helped my future plans at all, I'm glad that it turned out to be harmless and hardy after all. It speaks a lot for the longhairs that they mentioned that possibility about what might have happened to me, even as an afterthought. I love them too. At any rate, my quarter of a vat of mash hadn't been doing at all well. I guess the moonwort had cut the light. Not direct sunlight, of course, but reflected light. At this time of day, the cave should have been quite bright, and that's what the mash needed, maybe, to help it work. I beat my way to the back of the cave, trampling the heavy growth down as much as I could as I went, and found that the whole mass of the moonwort seemed to be springing out of the old mash that I'd dumped out of the vat after I'd finished the first batch. The moonwort couldn't have just used the old mash for food -- it must have weighed many times as much as the mash. The longhairs talk about ezymitic action and catalytic action ad a lot of other actions I don't care much about. All I knew at the time as I was mad because I figured the moonwort was eating into my profits. A nd then I got an idea that again the longhairs have told me wasn't very bright. The moonwort had grown on my used-up mash. I wondered if maybe I could ferment it in my vat. So I tried it. Never in my life have I seen anything work as fast as that moonwort mash did. In just a few hours I was as busy as a drill sergeant. I was working my still all out, making a clear white panther juice and using any spare time to cut more moonwort and cram it into the vat. I had to make a couple of trips back to civilization to pick up more containers. I didn't even stop to cut my output back to normal drinking proof -- that was real high-test stuff. I was so busy I didn't even stop to sip. As a matter of fact, maybe deep down inside I was scared that my panther juice might not be worth drinking. With all that hooch, I was as good as rich; if it turned out to be bad, I was just a poor corporal again. Anyway, I didn't taste, and as far as I can remember, I didn't even think about tasting. I just ended up with a jeep loaded full of hightest, but untested liquor -- or what I hoped was liquor. I even had to move the tube outside of the vehicle and strap it on top to make room for my jugs. I remembered the Old Man's orders, though. That's something I don't forget. And I was on hand on time to watch his ship come bouncing in on a tail of fire and set down right in the middle of the crossroads, as advertised. I turned the Tube, Experimental, over to the crewmen of the flagship, making sure that they didn't catch sight of my private enterprise, and reported to the admiral. "The Bolshies will be along in a few minutes," he said, "for whatever good that will do. They're bringing a connector tube also, which they will hook to their airlock. Then we'll attach the two tubes together, and meet there at the junction. "You'll bring a table and a chair for me, and the rest of our delegation will bring their own chairs. The other side will bring their table and chairs too. At least, we'll be able to do a little face-to-face talking, after all this time." He looked at me. "The full Marine dress uniform is an impressive piece of gear," he said. "Wear it during the meeting." The Old Man knew that we had only been allowed to lift from Earth with a few pounds of personal belongings, and he knew that the Marine uniform is heavy, and he knew that it wasn't on the allowed list of what you can take to the moon. But he didn't even bother to ask if I had a dress uniform with my gear in the ship. So I took a Marine bath (water is a scarce item in a spaceship), spit shined my shoes and put on my dress uniform. A long about that time, their ship came lumbering up and wobbled IF to a stop not moie than fifty feet liom ours, in almost no time, they had men out of their ship in spacesuits hooking a tube to their airlock. Since our sailors had already finished their outside work, they just stood by and watched critically. Those Russians were pretty good, though, and in about fifteen minutes from the time they landed, the two tubes were hooked together and i was walking toward the joining point on the inside, carrying an eightfoot-long table -- the longest that could be set down crosswise in the tube -- and an arm chair, just a few steps ahead of our delegation. I was glad to see that the Russian orderly fellow who was walking down their tube toward me carrying the table for their delegation was only about six foot four and didn't have any where near as good a uniform as my Marine full dress. But he was strong. He walked along carrying his table and chair as if it were the easiest thing to do in the world, just like I was carrying mine. We both knew the other one was lying. Even in light moon gravity, carrying that stuff was rough. I would have liked to have smiled at him to show I knew he was faking, but that wouldn't have been right; so each of us acted as if the other one weren't there, except that we set our tables down at exactly the same time, so that they both stood side to side across the mouth of the tubes, touching each other all along the side so they made one big, square table. With the table in place, I set the arm chair down behind it, so that the admiral, without waiting at all, seated himself at the center spot on his side. At the same instant, the Russian general who was their chief negotiator seated himself at the center spot behind his table. The interpreters and recorders and such took their places on both sides, and talk was ready to begin. Of course, the Old Man spoke excellent Russian, though he wasn't about to say a word in it, and I felt sure that the Russian general spoke good English, although you wouldn't be able to tell it by listening to him. I stood a few steps behind the admiral at parade rest and didn't move a muscle, while the interpreters cleared their throats and got things going. And the Russian orderly didn't budge any more than I did. That boy really knew his stuff. Unfortunately, when the talking really got started, it soon became very obvious that the negotiations weren't getting anywhere. After several years of continuous hot and cold war between East and West -- hot on the moon, while both sides kept things reasonably peaceful down on Earth -- the West had decided that the moon had stopped being a kind of relief valve for explosive tempers, and it was time to stop the shooting. One of the bigshot commentators said that he and the statesmen of the capitals of the West figured that "continuation of the endemic lunar conflict had become contraindicated, because it had commenced merely to exacerbate feelings on both sides." Whatever that means. Anyway, it looked as if the Russians didn't agree with that commentator, whatever their policicians were saying back on Earth. T l he Old Man was keeping his temper, which was a wonder, because I was losing mine. I managed to hold my position at parade rest without moving, of course, and I kept my face expressionless (or rather, in the proper expression of respectful readiness and attention that I can hold even when I have a hangover); but I couldn't keep the angry blood from darkening my face and neck, and that made me flush even worse. I could tell that that damn Russian orderly was laughing at me behind his expression of respectful readiness and attention. What the Russians were doing was to try to make us break off the negotiations; and, of course, we just had to stay there patiently to prevent that-or to try to build up a situation where they would break things up by leaving in a huff and claiming that it was our fault and that we had forced them out. It was this that the admiral was trying to prevent, and he was good at it; but I kept wondering just how long he could keep it up and what good it was doing. After several hours, the Russian general called a pause for what he said was "an exchange of courtesies." The admiral looked worried, even though he didn't change expression. The general gestured, and his orderly snapped to attention. He motioned again, and the orderly pivoted and moved back through their tube and into the Russian ship. He came back a few minutes iaicr with two glasses and a bottle. The general commented that the liquor was vodka, the Russian national drink. He poured and proposed toasts to the Russian people and the people of the West and to the success of the conference. Then, when both glasses were empty he gestured again, and that orderly of his picked up the bottle and the glasses and stepped back. The admiral had seen what was coming. It was obvious that if he couldn't propose adequate answering toasts, now that his turn had come, the Russians would get mad and stalk off, talking about our discourtesy. I had watched the Old Man glance at his aide and raise one eyebrow a trifle, and I had seen the aide shake his head an eighth of an inch each way. U.S.S.N.S. Tombaugh was a commissioned Navy ship, and the Josephus Daniels rule applied: no liquor allowed. Of course, sometimes a little private stock gets hidden on board for use ashore, but if there had been any, the aide would have known about it -- and it was clear that there wasn't. I was nearly sweating because I had the answer in the moon jeep, and I couldn't move a muscle to let the admiral know about it. I needn't have worried. The admiral gestured, and I snapped to attention. He motioned again, and I pivoted and moved back through the tube and into the ship. I whipped out of my dress uniform, into a spacesuit, out of the auxiliary airlock, into the moon jeep IF for a jug, back into the ship, out of the spacesuit an d back into my uniform in just under four minutes. Meanwhile, at my frantic request on the way by, a tray and a couple of glasses had been gotten ready. W hen I stepped back into the tube, my uniform was as immaculate as before, and I wasn't even breathing heavily, although the effort almost made me blow a gasket. The admiral picked up the jug and poured the two glasses full of the dear white liquid -- as clear and white as vodka. He glanced at the jug and then at me and stated blandly that the liquor was Moonshine, the American national drink. He proposed an appropriate toast, and he and the disappointed general oeremonially tossed down their neat shots. I stood at rest and prayed. The general didn't say a word, which didn't surprise me. He just held out his glass, which did. The admiral filled it again, and his own, and they tossed down their second slugs. Then both the general and the admiral gestured simultaneously, and we popped to attention, simultaneously. I got a bunch of glasses, enough for all of the group on our side, and then grabbed enough for the other side too and was back in thirty seconds. The general had his arm around his rigid and apoplectic orderly, happily explaining that he wanted him to get some glasses so that everybody, including the orderly, would have some of this wonderful American Moonshine. Of course, a couple of hours later the authorities moved in and confiscated my entire jeepload full of liquor, but it had already done its work. There have been half a dozen Nobel prizes, including a Peace Prize, awarded to longhairs who have studied the stuff and explained why it works the way it does and how they have expanded the world's fund of knowledge. The stuff just does what any good booze has always been supposed to do. It makes people friendly. The admiral and the general had come to full agreement in fifteen minutes on ending the war on the moon and had exercised their plenipotentiary powers to sign the agreement in front of full live network television coverage beamed down to both sides on Earth. The agreement was so sensible that both sides have had to stick with it. Nobody has ever used any more of the genuine Moonshine at a conference; but the fact that it exists and that it might be used has made the world a lot more peaceful. Even labor-management negotiations are running smoother. The world is getting downright insipid. The admiral got a fancy medal, which I keep polished, the thanks of the world and a promotion. As for me. I've never tasted the stuff, and I'm not going to. I pick my own friends. It may be the uniform, but I don't have much trouble getting real friendly when I want to with whatever girl I want to. And what else would I need the genuine Moonshine for? After all, I'm a IF  Novelette by Larry Niven I T 'he most beautiful girl aboard turned out to have a husband with habits so solitary that I didn't know about him until the second week. He was about five feet four and middle-aged, but he wore a hellflare tattoo on his shoulder, which meant he'd been on Kzin during the war thirty years back, which meant he'd been trained to kill adult kzinti with his bare hands, feet elbows, knees and whatnot. When we found out about each other he very decently gave me a first warning, and broke my arm to prove he meant it. The arm still ached a day later, and every woman on the Lensman was over two hundred years old. I drank alone. I stared glumly into the mirror behind the curving bar. The mirror stared glumly back. "Hey. You from We Made It. What am I?" He was two chairs down, and he was glaring. Without the beard he would have had a round, almost petulant face... I think. The beard, short and black and carefully shaped, made him look like a cross between Zeus and an angry bulldog. The glare went with the beard. His square fingers wrapped a large drinking bulb in a death grip. A broad belly matched broad shoulders to make him look massive rather than fat. Obviously he was talking to me. I asked, "What do you mean, what are you?" "Where am I from?" "Earth." It was obvious. The accent said Earth. So did the conservatively symmetrical beard. His breathing was unconsciously natural in the ship's standard atmosphere, and his build had been forged at one point zero gee. "Then what am I?" "A flatlander." The glare heat increased. He'd obviously reached the bar way ahead of me. "A flatlander! Dammit, everywhere I go I'm a flatlander. Do you know how many hours I've spent in space?" "No. Long enough to know how to use a drinking bulb." "Funny. Very funny. Everywhere in human space a flatlander is a shnook who never gets above the atmosphere. Everywhere but Earth. If you're from Earth you're a flatlander all your life. For the last fifty years I've been running about in human space, and what am I? A flatlander. Why?" "Earthian is a clumsy term." "What is WeMadeltian?" he demanded. "I'm a crashlander. I wasn't born within fifty miles of Crashlanding City, but I'm a crashlander anyway." That got a grin. I think. It was hard to tell with the beard. "Lucky you're not a pilot." "I am. Was." "You're kidding. They let a crashlander pilot a ship?" "If he's good at it." "I didn't mean to pique your ire, sir. May I introduce myself? My name's Elephant." "Beowulf Shaeffer." He bought me a drink. I bought him a drink. It turned out we both played gin, so we took fresh drinks to a card table... W hen I was a kid I used to stand out at the edge of Crashlanding Port watching the ships come in. I'd watch the mob of passengers leave the lock and move in a great clump toward customs, and I'd wonder why they seemed to have trouble navigating. A majority of the starborn would always walk in weaving lines, swaying and blinking teary eyes against the sun. I used to think it was because they came from different worlds with different gravities and different atmospheres beneath differently colored suns. Later I learned different There are no windows in a passenger spacecraft M there were, half the passengers would go insane; it takes an unusual mentality to watch the blind-spot appearance of hyperspace and still keep one's marbles. For passengers there is nothing to watch and nothing to do, and if you don't like reading sixteen hours a day then you drink. It's best to drink in company. You get less lushed, knowing you have to keep up your side of a conversation. The ship's 'doc has cured more hangovers than every other operation combined, right down to manicures and haircuts. The ship grounded at Los Angeles two days after I met Elephant. He'd made a good drinking partner. We'd been fairly matched at cards, him with his sharp card sense, me with my usual luck. From the talking we'd done we knew almost as much about each other as anyone knows about anyone. In a way I was sorry to see him leave. "You've got my number?" "Yah. But, like I said, I don't know just what I'll be doing." I was telling the truth. When I explore a civilized world I like to make my own discoveries. "Well, call me if you get a chance. I wish you'd change your mind. I'd really like to show you something of Earth." "I decline with thanks. Good-by, Elephant, it's been fun." Elephant waved and turned through the natives' door. I went on to face the smuggler baiters. The last drink was still with me, but I could core that at the hotel. I never expected te see Elephant again. I really never did. N ine days ago I'd been on Jinx, I'd been rich. And I'd been depressed. The money and the depression had stemmed from the same source. The puppeteers, those three-legged, twoheaded professional cowards and businessmen, had lured me into taking a new type of ship all the way to the galactic core, thirty thousand light-years away. The trip was for publicity purposes, to get research money to iron out the imperfections in the very ship I was riding. I suppose I should have had more sense, but I never do, and the money was good. The trouble was that the Core had exploded by the time I got there. The Core stars had gone off in a chain reaction of novas ten thousand years ago, and a wave of radiation was even then (and even now) sweeping methodically toward known space. In just over twenty thousand years, we'll all find ourselves in deadly danger. You're not worried? It didn't bother me much either. But every puppeteer in known space vanished overnight, heading for Finagle knows what other galaxy. I was depressed. I missed the puppeteers and hated knowing I was responsible for their going. I had time, and money, and a black melancholia to work off. And I'd always wanted to see Earth. IF II E arth smelled good. There was a used flavor to it, a breathed flavor, unlike anything I've ever known. It was the difference between spring water and distilled water. Somewhere in each breath I took were molecules breathed by Dante, Aristotle, Shakespeare, Heinledn, Carter and my own ancestors. Traces of past industries lingered in the air, sensed if not smelled: gasoline, coal fumes, tobacco and burnt cigarette filters, diesel fumes, ale breweries. I left the customs house with inflated lungs and a questioning look. I could have taken a transfer booth straight to the hotel. I decided to walk a little first. Everyone on Earth had made the same decision. The pedwalk held a crowd such as I had never imagined. They were all shapes and all colors, and they dressed in strange and eldritch ways. Shifting colors assaulted the eye and sent one reeling. On any world in human space, any world but one, you know immediately who the natives are. Wunderland? Asymmetric beards mark the nobility, and the common people are the ones who quickly step out of their way. We Made It? The pallor of our skins in summer and winter; in spring and fall, the fact that we all race upstairs, above the buried cities and onto the blooming desert, eager to taste sunlight while the murderous winds are at rest. Jinx? The natives are short and wide and strong; a sweet little old lady's handshake can crush steel. Even in the Belt, within the solar system, a Belter strip haircut adorns both men and women. But Earth -- ! No two looked alike. There were reds and blues and greens, yellows and oranges, plaids and stripes. I'm talking about hair, you understand, and skin. All my life I've used tannin secretion pills for protection against ultraviolet, so that my skin color has varied from its normal pinkish-white (I'm an albino) to (under bluewhite stars) tuxedo black. But I'd never known that other skin dye pills existed. I stood rooted to the pedwalk, letting it carry me where it would, watching the incredible crowd swarm around me. They were all knees and elbows. Tomorrow I'd have bruises. "Hey!" The girl was four or five heads away, and short. I'd never have seen her if everyone else hadn't been short too. Flatlanders rarely top six feet. And there was this girl, her hair a topological explosion in swirling orange and silver, her face a faint, subtle green with space-black eyebrows and lipstick, waving something and shouting at me. Waving my wallet. I forced my way .to her, until we were close enough to touch, until I could hear what she was saying above the crowd noise. "Stupid! Where's your address? You don't even have a place for a stamp!" "What?" She looked startled. "Oh! You're an offworlder." "Yah!" My voice would give out fast at this noise level. "Well, look." She shoved her way closer to me. "Look, you can't go around town with an offworldder's wallet. Next time someone picks your pocket he may not notice 'till you're gone." "You picked my pocket?" "Sure! Think I found it? Would I risk my precious hand under all those spike heels?" "How if I call a cop?" "Cop? Oh, a stoneface." She laughed merrily. "Learn or go under, man. There's no law against picking pockets. Look around you." I looked around me, then looked back fast, afraid she'd disappear. Not only my cash, but my Bank of Jinx draft for forty thousand stars, was in that wallet. Everything I owned. people in Los Angeles alone. Eightpose there was a law against picking pockets? How would you enforce it?" She deftly extracted the cash from my wallet and handed the wallet back. "Get yourself a new wallet, and fast. It'll have a place for your address and a window for a tenthstar stamp. Put your address in right away, and a stamp too. Then the next guy who takes it can pull out the money and drop your wallet in the nearest mailbox, no sweat. Otherwise you lose your credit cards, your ident, everything." She stuffed two hundred odd stars in cash between her breasts, flashed me a parting smile as she turned. "Thanks," I called. Yes, I did. I was still bewildered, but she'd obviously stayed to help me. She could just as easily have kept wallet and all. "No charge," she called back, and was gone. I stopped off at the first transfer booth I saw, dropped a halfstar in the coin slot and dialed Elephant. T he vestibule was intimidating. I'd expected a vestibule. Why put a transfer booth inside your own home, where any burglar can get in just by dialing your number? Anyone who can afford the lease on a private transfer booth can also afford a vestibule with a locked door and an intercom switch. There was a vestibule, but it was the size of a living room, furnished with massage chairs and an autovendor. There was an intercom, but it was a flat vidphone, three hundred IF years old restored at perhaps a hundred times its original cost. There was a double door of what looked like polished brass, with two enormous carved handles, and it stood fifteen feet high. I'd suspected Elephant was well off, but this was too much. It occurred to me that I'd never seen him completely sober, that I had in fact turned down his offer of guide, that a simple morning-after treatment might have wiped me from his memory. Shouldn't I just go away? I had wanted to explore Earth on my own. But I didn't know the rules! I stepped out of the booth and glimpsed the back wall. It was all picture window, with nothing outside. Just fleecy blue sky. How peculiar, I thought, and stepped closer. Elephant lived halfway up a cliff. A sheer mile-high cliff. The phone rang. On the third ear-jarring ring I answered, mainly to stop the noise. A supercilious voice said, "Is somebody out there?" 'Tm afraid not," I said. "Does someone named Elephant live here?" "##I see, sir," said the voice. The screen had not lit, but I had the feeling someone had seen me quite clearly. Seconds crawled by. I was half minded to jump back in the transfer booth and dial at random. But only half; that was the trouble. Then the screen did light, and it was Elephant. "Bay! You changed your mind!" "Yah. You didn't tell me you were rich." . "You didn't ask." "Well, no, of course not." "How do you expect to learn things if you don't ask? Don't answer that. Hang on, I'll be right down. You did change your mind? You'll let me show you Earth?" "Yes, I will. I'm scared to go out there alone." "Why? Don't answer. Tell me in person." He hung up. Seconds later the big bronze doors swung back with a bone-shaking boom. They just barely got out of Elephiant's way. He pulled me inside, giving me no time to gape, shoved a drink in my hand and asked me why I was afraid to go outside. I told him about the pickpocket, and he laughed. He told me about the time he tried to go outside during a We Made It summer, and I laughed, though I've heard of outworlders being blown away and to Hades doing the same thing. Amazingly, we were off again. It was just like on the ship, even to the end of Elephant's anecdote. "They called me a silly flatlander, of course." "I've been thinking about that," I said. "About what?" "You said you'd give a lot to do something completely original, so the next time someone called you a flatlander you oould back him into a corner and force him to listen to your story. You said it several times." "I didn't say just that. But I would like to have some story to tell, something like your neutron star episode. If only to tell myself. The silly offworlder wouldn't know, but Id know." I nodded. The neutron star episode he was talking about had been my first meeting with a puppeteer. The puppeteer had blackmailed me into taking one of his ships, a ship with an invulnerable puppeteer-made General Products hull, into a hyperbolic orbit within one mile of the surface of a neutron star. It was the only neutron star ever found, and I was the second man to make that trip. The first, with his wife, had used the same type of ship. They were found crushed shapelessly into its nose by some unknown force. Danger does wonderful things for my well known mental laziness. With two minutes to spare I had realized what the unknown force was, and had crawled into the repair access tube to avoid it. I'd talked about it over IF gin cards -- a habit I've developed for distracting my opponent -- and Elephant had been suitably impressed. "I've thought of a couple of things you could do," I said. "Spill." "One. Visit the puppeteer home world. Nobody's been there, but everyone knows there is one, and everyone knows how difficult it is to find. You could be the finst." "Great." He mused a moment. "Great! And the puppeteers wouldn't stop me because they're gone. Where is the puppeteer home world?" " don't know." "What's your second idea?" "Ask the Outsiders." "Huh?" "There's not a system in the galaxy that the Outsiders don't know all about. We don't know how far the puppeteer empire extended, though it was 'way beyond known space, but we do know about the Outsiders. They know the galaxy like the palm of their -- uh... And they trade for information; it's just about the only business they do. Ask them what's the most unusual world they know of within reach." Elephant was nodding gently. There was a glazed look in his eyes. I had not been sure he was serious about seeking some unique achievement. He was. "The problem is," I said, "that an Outsider's idea of what is unique may not -- " I stopped, because Elephant was up and half-running to a tridphone. I wasn't sorry. It gave me an opportunity to gape in private. I've been in bigger homes than Elephant's. Mach bigger. I grew up in one. But Fve never seen a room that soothed the eye like Elephant's living room. It was more than a living room; it was an optical illusion, the opposite of those jittering black-and-white images they show in lectures on how we see. These clinical children of Op Art give the illusion of motion; but Elephant's living room gave the illusion of stillness. A physicist would have loved the soundproofing. Some interior decorator had become famous for his work here, if he hadn't been famous already, in which case he had become rich. How could tall, thin Beowulf Shaeffer fit a chair designed to the measure of short, wide Elephant? Yet I was bonelessly limp, blissfully relaxed, using only the muscles that held a doublewalled glass of an oddtasting, strangely refreshing soft drink called Tzlotz Beer. A glass which would not empty. Somewhere in the crystal was a tiny transfer motor connected to the bar; but the bent light in the crystal hid it. Another optical illusion, and one that must have tricked good men into acute alcoholism. I'd have to watch that. E lephant returned. He walked as if he massed tons, as if any kzin foolish enough to stand in his path would have a short, wide hole in him. "All done," he said. "Don Cramer'll find the nearest Outsider ship and make my pitch for me. We should hear in a couple of days." "Okay," said I, and asked him about the cliff. It turned out that we were in the Rocky Mountains and that he owned every square inch of the nearly vertical cliff face. Why? I remembered Earth's eighteen billion and wondered if they'd otherwise have surrounded him up, down, and sideways. Suddenly Elephant remembered that someone named Dianna must be home by now. I followed him into the transfer booth, watched him dial eleven digits, and waited in a much smaller vestibule while Elephant used the more conventional intercom. Dianna seemed rather dubious about letting him in until he roared that he had a guest and she should stop fooling around. Dianna was a small, pretty woman with skin the deep, uniform red of a Martian sky and hair like flowing quicksilver. Her irises had the same polished silver luster. She hadn't wanted to let us in because we were both wearing our own skins, but she never mentioned it again once we were inside. Elephant introduced me to Dianna and instantly told her he'd acted to contact the Outsiders. "What's an Outsider?" she asked with sudden interest. Elephant gestured with both hands, looked confused, turned helplessly toward me. "They're hard to describe," I said. "Think of a cat-o'-nine-tails with a big thick handle." "They live on cold worlds," said Elephant. "Small, cold, airless worlds like Nereid. They pay rent to use Nereid as a base, don't they, Elephant? And they travel over most of the galaxy in big unpressurized ships with fusion drives and no hyperdrives." "They sell information. They can tell me about the world I want to find, the most unusual planet in known space." "They spend most of their time tracking starseeds." Dianna broke in. "Why?" Elephant looked at me. I looked at Elephant. "Say!" Elephant exclaimed. "Why don't we get a fourth for bridge?" Dianna looked thoughtful. Then she focused her silver eyes on me, examined me from head to foot and nodded gently to herself. "Sharrol Janss. I'll call her." While she was phoning, Elephant told me, "That's a good thought. Sharrol's got a tendency toward hero worship. She's a computer analyst at Donovan's Brains, Inc. You'll like her." "Good," I said, wondering if we were still talking about a bridge game. It struck me that I was building up a debt to Elephant. "Elephant, when you contact the Outsiders, I'd like to come along." "Oh? Why?" "You'll need a pilot. And I've dealt with Outsiders before." "Okay, it's a deal." The intercom rang from the vestibule. Dianna went to the door and came back with our fourth for bridge. "Sharrol, you know Elephant. This is Beowulf Shaeffer, from We Made It. Bay, this is -- " "You!" I said. "You!" she said. It was the pickpocket. IF in M y vacation lasted just four days. I hadn't known how long it would last, though I did know how it would end. Consequently I threw myself into it body and soul. If there was a dull moment anywhere in those fours days, I slept through it, and at that I didn't get enough sleep. Elephant seemed to feel the same way. He was living life to the hilt; he must have suspected, as I did, that the Outsiders would not consider danger as a factor in choosing his planet. By their own ethics they were bound not to. The days of Elephant's life might be running short. Buried in those four days were incidents that made me wonder why Elephant was looking for a weird world. Surely Earth was the weirdest of all... I remember when we threw in the bridge hands and decided to go out for dinner. This was more complicated than it sounds. Elephant hadn't had a chance to change to flatlander styles, and neither of us was fit to be seen in public. Dianna had cosmetics for us. I succumbed to an odd impulse. I dressed as an albino. They were body paints, not pills. When I finished applying them, there in the full length mirror was my younger self. Blood-red irises, snowwhite hair, pale transparent skin with a tinge of pink showing beneath: the teenager who bad disappeared ages ago, when I was old enough to use tannin pills. My mind wandered far back across the decades, to the days when I was a flatlander myself, my feet firmly beneath the ground, my head never higher than seven feet above the desert sands... They found me there before the mirror and decided my public was ready for me. I remember that evening, when Dianna told me she had known Elephant forever. "I was the one who named him Elephant," she bragged. "It's a nickname?" "Sure," said Sharrol. "His real name is Gregory Pelton." "O-o-oh." Suddenly all came clear. Gregory Pelton is known among the stars. It is rumored that he owns the thirty-light-year-wide rough sphere called human space, that he earns his income by renting it out. It is rumored that General Products, ostensibly run by the puppeteer species and now defunct in the absence of same, is a front for Gregory Pelton. It's a true fact that his great-tothe-eighth grandmother invented the transfer booth, and that he is rich, rich, rich! I asked, "Why Elephant? Why that particular nickname?" Dianna and Sharrol looked demurely at the tablecloth. Elephant said, "Use your imagination, Bay." "On what? What's an elephant, some kind of animal?" Three faces registered annoyance. I'd missed a joke. "Tomorrow," said Elephant, "we'll show you the Zoo." There are seven transfer booths in die Zoo of Earth. That'll tell you how big it is. But you're wrong; you've forgotten the two hundred taxis on permanent duty. They're there because the booths are too far apart for walking. We stared down at dusty, compact animals smaller than starseeds  or bandersnatchi, but bigger than anything else I'd ever seen. Elephant said, "See?" "Yah," I said, because the animals showed a compactness and a plodding invulnerability very like Elephant's. And then I found myself watching one of the animals in a muddy pool. It was using a hollow tentacle over its mouth to spray water on its back. I stared at that tentacle... and stared... "Hey, look!" Sharrol called, pointing. Bay's ears are turning red!" I didn't forgive her 'til two that morning. And I remember reaching over Sharrol to get a tabac stick and seeing her purse lying on her other things. I said, "How if I picked your pocket now?" Orange and silver lips parted in a lazy smile. "I'm not wearing a pocket." "Would it be in good taste to sneak the money out of your purse?" "Only if you could hide it on you." I found a small, flat purse with four hundred stars in it and stuck it in my mouth. She made me go through with it. Ever made love to a woman with a purse in your mouth? Unforgettable. Don't try it if you've got asthma. I remember Sharrol. I remember smooth, warm blue skin, silver eyes half-closed in cool blue loveliness, orangeHand-silver hair in a swirling abstract pattern that nothing could muss. It always sprang back. Her laugh was silver too, when I gently extracted two handfuls of hair and tied them in a hard double knot, and when I gibbered and jumped up and down at the sight of her hair slowly untying itself like Medusa's locks. And her voice was a silver croon. remember the freeways. They were the first thing that showed, coming in on Earth. If we'd landed at night it would have been the lighted cities; but of course we came in on the day side. Why else would a world have three spaceports? There were the freeways and autostradas and autobahns, strung in an all-enclosing net across the faces of the continents. From a few miles up you still can't see the breaks. But they're there, when girders and pavement have collapsed. Only two superhighways are still kept in good repair. Both are on the same continent: the Pennsylanvia Turnpike and the Santa Monica Freeway. The rest of the network is broken chaos. It seems there are people who collect old groundcars and race them. Some are renovated machines with half the parts replaced; others are handmade reproductions. On a perfectly flat surface they'll do sixty to a hundred miles per hour. I laughed when Elephant told me about them. Seeing them in person was different.  The rodders began to appear about IF dawn. They gathered around one end of the Santa Monica Freeway, the end that used to join the San Diego Freeway. This end is a maze of fallen spaghetti, great curving loops of prestressed concrete that have lost their strength over the years and sagged to the ground. But you can still use the top loop to reach the starting line. We watched from above, hovering in a cab as the groundcars moved into line. "Their dues cost more than the cars," said Elephant. "I used t drive one myself...You'd turn white as snow if I told you how much it costs to keep this stretch of freeway in repair." "How much?" He told me. I turned white as snow. They were off. I was still wondering what kick they got, driving an obsolete machine on flat concrete when they could be up here with us. They were off, weaving slightly, weaving more than slightly, foolishly moving at different speeds, coming perilously close to each other before sheering off -- and I began to realize things. Those automobiles had no radar. They were being steered with a cabin wheel geared directly to four ground wheels. A mistake in steering and they'd crash into each other, or into the concrete curbs. They were steered and stopped by muscle power; but whether they could turn or stop depended on how hard four rubber balloons could grip smooth concrete. If the tires loosed their grip Newton's First Law would take over; the fragile metal mass would continue moving in a straight tine until stopped by a concrete curb or another groundcar. "A man could get killed in me f those." "Not to worry," said Elephant. "Nobody does, usually." "Usually?" He told me. I turned white as snow. The race ended twenty minutes later, at another tangle of fatten concrete. I was wet through. We landed and met some of the racers. One of them, a thin guy with tangled, glossy green hair and a bony white face with a widely grinning scarlet mouth, offered me a ride. I declined with thanks, backing slowly away and wishing for a weapon. This joker was obviously dangerously insane. I remember flatlander food, the best in known space, and an odd, mildly alcoholic drink called Taittinger Comtes de Champagne '#. I remember invading an outworlder bar, where the four of us talked shop with a girl rock miner whose inchwide auburn crest of hair fell clear to the small of her back. I remember flying cross-country with a lift belt, and seeing nothing but city enclosing widely separated patches of food-growing land. I remember a submerged hotel off the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, and a dolphin embassy off Italy where a mixed group of dolphins and flatlanders seemed to be solving the general problem of sentient beings without hands (there are many, and we'll probably find more) . It seemed more a cottee-break discussion than true business. We were about to break up for bed on the evening of the fourth day, when the tridphone rang. Don Cramer had found an Outsider. I said, disbelieving, "You're leaving right now?" "Sure!" said Elephant. "Here, take one of these pills. You won't feel sleepy 'til we're on our way." A deal is a deal, and I owed Elephant plenty. I took the pill. We kissed Sharrol and Dianna good-by, Dianna standing on a chair to reach me, Sharrol climbing me like a beanpole and wrapping her legs around my waist. I was a foot and a half taller than either of them. Calcutta Base was in daylight. Elephant and I took the transfer booth there, to find that the ST had been shipped ahead of us. Her full name Was Slower Than Infinity. She had been built into a General Products ## hull, a three hundred foot spindle with a wasp waist constriction near the tail. I was relieved. The General Products hull is both invulnerable and impermeable to matter and energy other than visible light, as guaranteed by the puppeteer company and proven over thousands of years of use; but none of the four designs are pretty, and they all look alike. I was afraid Elephant might own a flashy, vulnerable dude's yacht. The two-man control room looked pretty small for a lifesystem until I noticed the bubble extension folded into the nose. The rest of the hull held a one gee fusion drive and fuel tank, a hyperspace motor, a gravity drag and belly landing gear, ail cleariy visible through the hull, which had been left transparent. She held fuel, food and aid. She must have been ready for days. We left twenty mintes after arriving. Using the fusion drive in Earth's atmosphere would have gotten us into the organ banks, in pieces. Flatlander laws are strict about air pollution. A robot rocket with huge wings lifted us to orbit, using air compressed nearly to degenerate matter as a propellant. We took off from there. Now there was plenty of time for sleep. It took us a week at one gee just to get far enough out of the solar system's gravity well to use the hyperdrive. Somewhere in that time I removed my false coloring (it had been false; I'd continued to take tannin secretion pills against Earth's sunlight), and Elephant turned his skin back to light tan and his beard and hair back to black. For four days he'd been Zeus, with marble skin and a metal-gold beard and glowing molten gold eyes. It had fitted him so perfectly that I hardly noticed the change. Hyperdrive -- and a long, slow three weeks. We took turns hovering over the mass indicator, though at first quantum hyperdrive speeds we'd have seen a mass at least twelve hours before it became dangerous. I think I was the only man who knew there was a second quantum -- a puppeteer secret. The Outsider ship was near the edge of known space, well beyond Tau Ceti. "It was the only one around," Elephant had said. "Number fourteen." IF "Fourteen? That's the same ship I dealt with before." "Oh? Good. That should help." Days later he asked, "How'd it happen?" "The usual way. Number fourteen was on the other side of known space then, and she sent out an offer of information exchange. I was almost to Wunderland, and I caught the offer. When I dropped my passengers I went back." "Did they have anything worthwhile?" "Yah. They'd found the Lazy Eight ." T he Lazy Eight II had been one of the old slowboats, a circular flying wing taking colonists to Jinx. Something had gone wrong before turnover, and the ship had continued on, carrying fifty passengers in suspended animation and a crew of four, presumed dead. With a ramscoop to feed hydrogen to her fusion drive she could accelerate forever. She was five hundred years on her way. "I remember," said Elephant. "They couldn't reach her." "No. But we'll know where to find her when the state of the art gets that good." "That won't be soon." He was right. A hyperdrive ship would not only have to reach her, but to carry reaction fuel to match her speed. Her speed was just less than a photon's, and she was more than five hundred light-years away, seventeen times the diameter of known space. "They'll wait for us," I said. "Did you have any problems?" "Their translator is pretty good. But we'll have to be careful. The thing about buying information is that you don't know what you've got until you've bought it. They couldn't just offer to sell me the present position of the Lazy Eight II. We'd have tracked their course by scope until we saw fusion light, and gotten the information free." The time came when only a small green dot glowed in the center of the mass indicator. A star would have shown as a line; no star would have shown as no dot. I dropped out of hyperspace and set the deep-radar to hunt out the Outsider. IV he Outsider found us first. Somewhere in the cylindrical metal pod near her center of mass, perhaps occupying it completely, was the reactionless drive. It was common knowledge that that drive was for sale, and that the cost was a full no nation now extant, could afford to pay it, the price was not exorbitant. In two or three minutes, while we were still searching, that drive had dropped the Outsider ship from above point nine lights to zero relative and pulled it alongside the ST oo One moment, nothing but stars. The next, the Outsider ship was alongside. She was mostly empty space. I knew her population was the size of a small city, but she was much bigger because more strung out. There was the minuscule-seeming drive capsule, and there, on a pole two and a half miles long, wias a light source. The rest of the ship was metal ribbons, winding in and out, swooping giddily around themselves and each other, until the ends of each tangled ribbon stopped meandering and joined to the drive capsule. There were around a thousand such ribbons, and each was the width of a wide city pedwalk. "Like a Christmas tree decoration," said Elephant. "What now, Bay?" "They'll use the ship radio." A few minutes of waiting, and here came a bunch of Outsiders. They looked like black cat-o'-ninetails with grossly swollen handles. In the handles were their brains and invisible sense organs; in the whip ends, the clusters of mobile root-tentacles, were gas pistols. Six of them braked to a stop outside the airlock. The radio spoke. "Welcome to Ship Fourteen. Please step outside for conveyance to our office. Take nothing on the outsides of your pressuffe suits." Elephant asked, "Do we?" I said, "Sure. The Outsiders are nothing if not honorable." We went out. The six Outsiders offered us a tentacle each, and away we went across open space. Not fast. The thrust from the gas pistols was very low, irritatingly weak. But the Outsiders themselves were weak: an hour in the gravity of Earth's moon would have killed them, They maneuvered us through a tangled clutter of silver ribbons, landed us on a ramp next to the looming convex wall of the drive capsule. It wasn't quite like being lost in a lies. The rigid giant bowl of ribbons were too far apart for that Far above us was the light source, about as small and intense amd yellowish-white as Earth's sun seen from a moon of Neptune. Shining down through the interstellar vacuum, it cast a network of sharp black shadows across all the thousand looping strands that made up the city. Along every light-shadow borderline were the Outsiders. Just as their of years ago on some unknown world near the galactic core, the Outsiders were absorbing life-energy. Their branched tails lay in shadow, their heads in sunlight, while thermoelectricity charged their biochemical batteries. Some had root-tentacles dipped in shallow food dishes; the trace elements which kept them alive and growing were in suspension in liquid helium. W e stepped carefully around them, using our headlamps at lowest intensity, following one of the Outsiders toward a door in the wall ahead. There were no rails along the ramps, and nothing but the cold distant stars beneath. Outsiders moved aside if we came to close. Our suits may have been leaking too much heat. The enclosure was dark until the door closed behind us. Then the light came on. It was sourceless, the color of normal sunlight, and it illuminated a cubicle that was hare and square. The only furnishing was a hemisphere of very dark glass with IF the coiled shape of an Outsider inside. The hemisphere must have been both evacuated and refrigerated. Only excellent manners could have put him here at all, as if he were the guest instead of us... "Welcome," said the room. Whatever the Outsider had said was not sonic in nature. "This air is breathable. Take off your helmets, suits, shoes, girdles and whatnot." It was an excellent translator, with a good grasp of idiom and a pleasant baritone voice. "Thanks," I said, and we doffed our suits, Elephant a little self-consciously. "Which of you in Gregory Pelton?" "I am." "Hi. According to your agent, you want to know how to reach that planet which is most unusual inside the borders of the sixty-lightyear-wide region you call known space. Is this correct?" "Yes." "We must know if you plan to go there or to send agents there. Also, do you plan a landing, a near orbit, or a distant orbit?" "Landing." "Are we to guard against danger to your life or property?" "No." Elephant's voice was dry. The Outsider ship was an intimidating place. "What kind of craft would you use?" "The ship we came in." "Do you plan colonization? Mining? Growth of food plants or animals?" "I plan only one visit." "We have selected a world for stars." "That's high," said Elephant. I whistled under by breath. It was: and it wouldn't get lower. The Outsiders never dickered. "Sold," said Elephant. The translator gave us a triplet set of coordinates some twenty-four light-years from Earth along galactic north. "The star you are looking for is a protosun with one planet a system is moving at point eight lights toward -- he gave a vector direction. It seemed the protosun was drawing a shallow chord through known space; it would never approach human space. "No good," said Elephant. "No hyperdrive ship can go that fast in real space." "You could hitch a ride," said the translator. "With us. Moor your ship to our drive capsule." "That'll work," said Elephant. He was getting more and more uneasy; his eyes seemed to be searching die walls for the source of the voice. He would not look at the Outsider business agent in the vacuum chamber. "Our ferry fee will be one million stars." Elephant sputtered. "Just a sec," I said. "I may have information to sell you." T tfiere was a long pause. Elephant looked at me in surprise. "You are Beowulf Shaeffer?" "Yah. You remember me?" "We find you in our records. Beowulf Shaeffer, we have information for you, already paid. The former regional president of General Products on Jinx wishes you to contact him. I have a transfer booth number." "That's late news," I said. "The puppeteers are gone. Anyway, why would that two-headed sharpie want to see me?" "I do not have that information. I do know that not all puppeteers have left this region. Will you accept the transfer booth number?" "Sure." I wrote down the eight digits as they came. A moment later Elephant was yelling, just as if he were a tridee set turned on in the middle of a program. " -- hell is going on here?" "Sorry about that, "said the trans ,  V' #  IF "What happened?" I asked. "I couldn't hear anything! Did that monk -- Did the Outsider have private business with you?" "Sort of. I'll tell you later." The translator said, "Beowulf Shaeffer, we do not buy information. We sell information and use the proceeds to buy territory and food soil." "You may need this information," I argued. "I'm the only man within reach who knows it." "What of other races?" The puppeteers might have told them, but it was worth taking a chance. "You're about to leave known space. If you don't deal with me you may not get this information in time." "What price do you set on this item?" "You set the price. You've got more experience at putting values on information, and you're honorable. "We may not be able to afford an honest price." "The price may not exceed our ferry fee." "Done. Speak." I told him of the Core explosion and how I'd come to find out about it. He made me go into detail on what I'd seen: the bright patch of supernovae spreading out as my ship caught up with ancient light waves, until all the bright multicolored ball of the Core was ablaze with supernovae. "You couldn't have known this until you got there, and then it would have been too late. You don't use faster-than-light drives." "We knew from the puppeteers that the Core had exploded. They were not able to go into detail because they had not seen it for themselves." "Oh. Ah, well. I think the explosion must have started at the back side of the Core from here. Otherwise it would have seemed' to go much more slowly." "Many thanks. We will waive your ferry fee. Now, there is one more item. Gregory Pelton, for an additional two hundred thousand stars we will tell you exactly what is peculiar about the planet you intend to visit." "Can I find out for myself?" "It is likely." "Then I will." Silence followed. The Outsider hadn't expected that. I said, "I'm curious. Your galaxy is rapidly becoming a death trap. What will you do now?" "That information will cost you -- " "Forget it." O utside, Elephant said, "Thanks." "Forget it I wonder what they will do?" "Maybe they can shield themselves against the radiation." "Maybe. But they won't have any starseeds to follow." "Do they need them?" Finagle only knew. The starseeds followed a highly rigid migratory mating pattern out from the Core of the galaxy and into the arms, almost to the rim, before turning back down to the Core. They were doomed. As they returned to the Core the expanding wave of radiation from the multiple novas would snuff out the species one by one. What would the Outsiders do without them? What the hell did they do with them? Why did they follow them? Did they need starseeds? Did starseeds need Outsiders? The Outsiders would answer these and related questions for one tions cost high with the Outsiders. A crew was already ringing the ST oo in to dock. We watched from the ramp, with crewmen sunbathing about our feet. We weren't worried. The way the Outsiders handled it, our invulnerable hull might have been made of spun sugar and sunbeams. When a spiderweb of thin strands fastened the ST co to the wall of the drive capsule, the voice of the translator spoke in our ears and invited us to step aboard. We jumped a few hundred feet upward through the trace of artificial gravity, climbed into the airlock and got out of our suits. "Thanks again," said Elephant. "Forget it again," I said magnanimously. "I owe you plenty. You've been putting me up as a house guest on the most expensive world in known space, acting as my guide where the cost of labor is -- " "Okay okay okay. But you saved forget it." He whopped me on the shoulder and hurried into the concredit base for the next Outsider ship that came by. "I won't," I called at his retreating back. And wondered what the hell I meant by that? Much later I wondered about something else. Had Elephant planned to take me to "his" world? Or did he think to go it alone, to be the first to see it and not one of the first two? After the Outsider episode it was already too late. He couldn't throw me off the ship then. I wished I'd thought of it in time. I never wanted to be a batman. My stake in this was to gently, tactfully if it became necessary. For all his vast self-confidence, vast riches, vast generosity and vast bulk, he was still only a flatlander, and thus a little bit helpless. V W e were in the expansion bubble when it happened. The bubble had inflatable seats and an inflatable IF table; it was there for exercising a fine view; the surface was perfectly transparent. Otherwise we would have missed it. There was no pressure against the seat of the pants, no crawling sensation in the pit of the stomach, no feel of motion. But Elephant, who was talking about a Jinxian frail he'd picked up in a Chicago bar, stopped just as she was getting ready to tear the place apart because some suicidal idiot had insulted her. Somebody heavy was sitting down on the universe. He came down slowly, like a fat man cautiously letting his weight down on a beach ball. From inside the bubble it looked like all the stars and nebulae around us were squeezing themselves together. The Outsiders on the ribbons outside never moved; but Elephant said something profane, and I steeled myself to look up. The stars overhead were bluewhite and blazing. Around us they were squashed together; below, they were turning red and winking out, one by one. It had taken us a week to get out of the solar system, but the Outsider ship could have done it in five hours. The radio spoke. "Sirs, our crewmen will remove your ship from ours, after whioh you will be on your own. It has been a pleasure to do business with you." A swarm of Outsider crewmen hauled us through the maze of basking ramps and left us. Presently the Outsider ship vanished, gone suddenly off, now on its own business. In the strange starlight Biephant let out a long, shaky sigh Some people can't take aliens. They don't find puppeteers graceful and beautiful; they find them horrifying, wrong . They see kzinti as slavering carnivores whose only love is fighting they don't see the rigid code of honor, nor the self-control which allows a kzin ambassador to ride a human city pedwalk without slashing out with his claws at the impertinent stabbing knees and elbows. Elephant was one of these people. He said, "Okay," in amazed relief that they were actually gone. "I'll take the first watch, Bay." He did not say, "Those bastards would take your heart as collateral on a tenth-star loan." He couldn't see them as that close to human. I f Elephant's weakness was aliens, mine was relativity. The trip through hyperspace was routine. I'd been trained to take the sight of the two small windows turning into blind spots, becoming areas of nothing which seemed to draw together the objects around them. So had Elephant; he'd done some flying though he preferred the comfort of a luxury liner. But the Fast Protosun was a week away, and even the best pilot occasionally has to drop back among die stars, to get his bearings and to assure his subconscious that the universe is still there. And each time it was changed, squashed flat. The crowded blue stars were all ahead; the sparse dim red stars were all behind. Four hundied years ago men and women had lived for years with such a view of the universe. But it hadn't happened since the invention of hyperdrive. I'd never seen the universe look like this. It bothered me. "No, it doesn't bug me," said Elephant when I mentioned it. We were a day out from our destination. "To me, stars are stars. But I have been worried about something. Bay, you said the Outsiders are honorable." "They are. They've got to be. They have to be so far above suspicion that any species they deal with will remember their unimpeachable ethics a century later. You can see that, can't you? Outsiders don't show up more often than that." "Um. Okay. Why did they try to screw that extra two hundred kilostars out of me?" "Uh -- " "See, the goddam problem is, what if it was a fair price? What if we need to know what's funny about the Fast Protosun?" "You're right. Knowing the Outsiders, it's probably information we can use. All right, we'll nose around a little before we land. We'd have done that anyway, but now we'll do it better." W hat was peculiar about the Fast Protosun? Around lunchtime on the seventh ship's day, a short green line in the sphere of the mass indicator began to extend itself. It was wide and fuzzy, just what you'd expect of a protosun. I let it reach almost to the surface of the sphere before I dropped us into normal space. The squashed universe looked in the windows. But ahead of us was a circular darkening and blurring of the vivid blue-white stars; and in the center of the circle was a dull red glow. "Let's go into the extension bubble," said Elephant. "Let's not." "We'll get a better view in there." He turned the dial that would make the bubble transparent. Naturally we kept it opaque in hyperspace. "Repeat, let's not. Think about it, Elephant. What sense does it make to use an impermeable hull, then spend most of our time outside it? Until we know what's here we ought to retract the bubble." He nodded his shaggy head and touched the board again. Chugging noises announced that air and water were being pulled out of the bubble. Elephant moved to a window. "Ever seen a protosun?" "No," I said. "I don't think there are any in human space." "That could be the peculiarity." "It could. One thing it isn't, is the speed of the thing. Outsiders spend all their time moving faster than this." "But planets don't. Neither dc stars. Bay, maybe this thing came from outside the galaxy. That would make it unusual." It was time we made a list. I found a pad and solemnly noted speed of star, nature of star and possible extragalactic origin of star. "I've found our planet," said Elephant. "Whereabouts?" "Almost on the other side of the IF protosun. We can get there faster in hyperspace." T Mie planet was still invisibly small where Elephant brought us out. The protosun looked about the same. A protosun is the foetus of a star: a thin mass of gas and dust, brought together by slow eddies in interstellar magnetic fields or by the presence of a Trojan point in some loose cluster of stars; a mass which is collapsing and contracting due to gravity. I'd found material on protosuns in the ship's library, but it was all astronomical data: nobody had ever been near one for a close look. In theory the Fast Protosun must have been fairly well along in its evolution, not only because it must have formed before acquiring its peculiar velocity, but because it was already glowing. "There it is," said Elephant. "Two days away at one gee." "Good. We can do our instrument checks on the way. Strap down." With the fusion motor pushing us smoothly along, Elephant went back to the scope, and I started checking the other instruments. One thing stood out like a beacon. "Elephant. Have you noticed in me a tendency to use profanity for emphasis?" "Not really. Why?" "It's goddam radioactive out there." "Could you be more specific, sir?" "Our suit shields would break down in three days. The extension bubble would go in twenty hours." "Okay, add it to your list. Any idea what's causing it?" "Not one." I made a note on my list. We were in no danger; the GP hull would protect us from anything but a heavy impact. "No asteroid belts," said Elephant. "Meteor density zero, as far as I can tell. No other planets." "The interstellar gas may clean away anything small, at these speeds." "One thing's for sure, Bay. I got my money's worth. This is a strange odd peculiar funny system." "Yah. Well, we missed lunch. Let's get dinner." "Philistine." VI E lephant ate fast. He was back at the scope before I was ready for coffee. Watching him move, I was again reminded of a juggernaut; but he'd never shown such determination when I knew him on Earth. If a hungry kzin had been between him and the telescope, Elephant would have left footprints in fur. But the only thing that could get in his way out here was me. "Can't get a close look at the planet," said Elephant, "but it looks polished." "Just that. I don't see any sign of an atmosphere." "How about blast craters?" "Nothing." "They should be there." "This system's pretty clean of meteors." "The space around us shouldn't be. And at these speeds -- " "Uh-huh. That better go on your list." I wrote it down on my list. We slept in the disaster couches. In front of me were the yellow lights of the control panel; the stars glowed red through one side window, blue through the other. I stayed awake a long time, staring through the forward window into the red darkness ahead. The window was opaqued, but I saw the protosun clearly in my imagination, like a blood droplet speading in dark, still water. The radiation held steady all through the next day. I did some more thorough checking, using temperature readings and deep-radar on both sun and planet. Everywhere I looked was a new anomaly. "This star definitely shouldn't be glowing yet. It's to spread out; the gas should be too thin for fusion." "Is it hot enough to glow?" "Sure. But it shouldn't be." "Maybe the theories on protosuns are wrong." "Put it on your list." And, an hour later: "Elephant -- " " Another peculiarity?" "Yah." From under shaggy brows. Elephant's eyes plainly told me he was getting sick of peculiarities. "According to the deep-radar shadow, this planet doesn't have any lithosphere. It's worn right down to what ought to be the magma, but isn't because it's so cold out here." "Write it down. How many entries have you got?" "Nine." "Is any one of them worth paying two hundred kilostars to know about beforehand?" "The radiation, maybe, if we didn't have a GP hull." "But," said Elephant, glaring out at the huge, dark disk, "they knew we had a GP hull. Bay, can anything get through a General Products hull?" "Light, like a laser beam. Gravity, like tides crushing you into the nose of a ship when you get too close to a neutron star. Impact won't harm the hull, but it'll kill what's inside." "Maybe the planet's inhabited. The more I think about it, the more sure I am it came from outside. Nothing in the galaxy could have given it this velocity. It's diving through the plane of the galaxy; it wouldn't have to push in from the rim." "Okay. What do we do if someone shoots a laser at us?" "We perish, I think. I had reflective paint spread around the cabin, except for the windows, but the rest of the hull is transparent." "We can still get into hyperspace from here. And for the next twenty hours. Afterwards we'll be too close to the planet." I went right to sleep that night, being pretty tired despite the lack of exercise. Hours later I slowly realized that I was being examined. I could see it through my closed eyelids; I could feel the heat of the vast red glare, the size of the angry eye, the awful power of the mind behind it. I tried to struggle away, smacked my hand on something and woke with a shock. I lay there in the red darkness. The edge of the protosun peeked through a window. I could feel its hostile glare. IF I said, "Elephant." "Mngl?" "Nothing. Morning would be soon enough. orning. "Elephant, would you do me a favor?" "Sure. You want Dianna? My right arm? Shave off my beard?" "I'll keep Sharrol, thanks. Put on your suit, will you?" "Sure, that makes sense. We aren't nearly uncomfortable enough, just because we closed off the bubble." "Right. And because I'm a dedicated masochist, I'm going to put my suit on this instant. Now, I hate to enjoy myself alone -- " "You got the wind up?" "A little. Just enough." "Anything for a friend. You go first." There was just room to get our suits on one at a time. If the inner airlock door hadn't been open there wouldn't have been that. We tried leaving our helmets thrown back, but they got in our way against the crash couches. So we taped them to the window in front of us. I felt better that way, but Elephant clearly thought I'd flipped. "You sure you wouldn't rather eat with your helmet on?" "I hate suit-food syrup. We can reach our helmets if we get a puncture." " What puncture? We're in a General Products hull!" "I keep remembering that the Outsiders knew that." "We've been through that." "Let's go through it again. Assume they thought we might be killed anyway if we weren't prepared. Then what?" "Gronk." "Either they expected us to go out in suits and get killed, or they know of something that can reach through a General Products hull." "Or both. In which case the suits do us no good at all. Bay, do you know how long it's been since a General Products hull failed?" "I've never heard of its happening at all." It never has." "You're dead right. I've been stupid. Go ahead and take off your suit." Elephant turned to look at me. "And you?" "I'll keep mine on." Elephant shrugged his shaggy eyebrows and went back to the telescope. By then we were six hours from touchdown, and decelerating. "I think I've found an asteroid crater," Elephant said presently. I had a look. "Yah, I think you're right. But it's damn near disappeared." He took the telescope back. "It's round enough. Almost has to be a crater. Bay, why should it be so eroded?" "It must be the interstellar dust. If it is, then that's why there's no atmosphere or lithosphere. But I can't see the dust being that thick, even at these speeds." "Put it -- " "Yah." I reached for my list. "If we find one more anomaly I'll throw a tantrum." H alf an hour later we found life. By then we were close enough to use the gravity drag. The beautiful thing about a gravity drag is that it uses very little power. It converts a ship's momentum relative to the nearest powerful mass into heat, and all you have to do is get rid of the heat. Since the ST # 's hull would pass only various ranges of radiation corresponding to what the puppeteers' varied customers call visible light, the ship builders had run a big radiator fin out from the gravity drag and through the hull. It glowed dull red behind us. And the fusion drive was off. There was no white fusion flame to hurt visibility. Elephant had the scope at highest magnification. At first, as I peered into the eyepiece, I couldn't see what he was talking about. There was a dull white plain, all the same color except for a few bluish blobs. The blobs wouldn't have stood out but for the uniform surface around them. Then one of them moved. Very slowly, but it was moving. "Right," I said. "Let's run a temperature check." The surface temperature in that region was right for helium II. And on the rest of the planet as well; the protosun wasn't putting out much heat, though it was on radiation. "I don't think they match any species I know." "I can't tell," said Elephant. He had the telescope and the library screen going at the same time, with "I've found twenty different species of helium life in this book, and they all look alike." "Not quite. These must have a vacuum-proof integument. And you'll notice those granules in the -- " "I treasure my ignorance on this subject, Bay. Anyway, we won't find any known species on this world. At these speeds even a stage tree seed wouldn't live through the im, pact." I let the subject die. Once again Elephant run the scope over "his" planet, this time looking for the blobby life forms. They were big for Helium II life, but not freakishly so. Many cold worlds develope life using the peculiar properties of superfluid helium; but, since such life hasn't much use for complexity, it usually stays in the amoeba stage. There was one peculiarity, which I dully noted. Every animal was on the planet's backside with relation to its course through the galaxy. They weren't afraid of protosunlight, but they seemed to fear interstellar dust. T wo hours passed. The red glow of the radiator fin became more pronounced. The planet was closer, but no more detailed. "Cue Ball," said Elephant. "No good. It's been used. For Beta Lyrae I." "Too bad. How about Swoosh?" "Huh? Oh, Swoosh. That isn't bad." "That's it then. Swoosh, discovered by Gregory Zhiv Pelton and Friend." "Elephant, what are we doing here?" IF He turned, startled. "What do you mean?" "Look, you know by now I'm with you all the way. But I do wonder. here, and you'd have spent two if you had to. You could be home in the Rockies with Dianna, or hovering near Beta Lyrae, which is unusual enough and much better scenery than, uh, Swoosh. You could be sampling oddball drugs and biochemicals in Crashlanding, or looking for mist demons on Plateau, or hunting bandersnatchi and vice versa on a Jinx shoreline. Why here?" "Because it is there?" "What the blazes kind of an answer is that?" "Bay, once upon a time there was a guy named Miller. Six years ago he took a ramscoop-fusion drive ship out of a museum and put a hyperdrive in it and set out for the edge of the universe. He figured he could get his hydrogen in normal space and use the fusion plant to power his hyperdrive. He's probably still going. He may go forever, unless he hits something. So why?" "A psychiatrist I'm not." "He wanted to be remembered. When you're dead a hundred years, Bay, what will you be remembered for?" "I'll be the idiot who rode with Gregory Pel ton, who spent two months of his life and more than a once on a totally useless planet." "Gronk. But do you see? You'll be remembered." "There must be better things to be remembered for." "I can't write novels. I'd make a lousy planetary president. A scientist I'm not. What's left?" "Found a dynasty?" Elephant's lips tightened, and he glared -- not at me, but ahead. "Arrgh," he growled. "I'd make a lousy emperor too. Let's drop it, shall we?" "Okay," I said. Because something had occurred to me. That guy named Miller -- I'd heard of him. He'd been sterilized while standing too close to a fusionelectric plant the day it decided to leak just a little. There were other heroes, whose names were remembered because they had done strange, difficult, not particularly useful things. Mae Doolin, who had climbed forty miles down the side of Mount Lookitthat in a suit she had designed herself. If she'd spent a couple of extra months on that pressure suit she'd have made it back up. Lynaeus (true name unknown), who fought kzinti with his bare hands, and lived to teach the Hellflare Boys how. Had any of them had families? Did Elephant have children? Could he? I could ask the first question, if I phrased it right. I'd have to be subtle. "Elephant, are you ster -- " There was a muffled, authoritative boom , instantly followed by a strangling pressure in my larynx and a cool, puffy sensation over my skin surface and a stabbing pain in the ears. I heard the bare beginning of an alarm as the air went. Already I was reaching for my helmet. I clamped it down hard, spun the collar, and gave vent to an enormous belch at the same time as the wind went shrieking from my lungs. T 'here was no way to realize what was happening, and no time. Vacuum was around us; and air was spraying into my suit, frigid with storage. Iron spikes were being driven through my ears and sinuses; but I was going to live. My lungs held ,a ghastly emptiness, but my suit was inflating. I would live. You don't know how selfish your thoughts can be until you've come that close to the Blowout Death. My hands started to shake; I clamped down on myself and turned to Elephant. The fear of death was naked in his face. He had his helmet down, but he was having trouble with the collar. Mist wreathed his neck ring. I had to force his hands away to fasten his helmet down. The glass misted over, then cleared; he was getting air. Had it come in time?  was alive. The pain was leaving my ears and sinuses, and I was breathing: inhale, pause, inhale, as the presure rose to normal. Now I had time to think it through, to remember what I'd seen without noticing, to play it back. What had happened was insane. The hull had turned to dust. Just that. All at once and nothing first, the ship's exterior had disintegrated and blown away on a puff of breathing-air. I'd seen it. And sure enough, the hull was gone. Only the innards of the ship remained. Before me, the lighted control board. A little below that, the manhole to the packed bubble, and the bubble package itself. Above the board, the dull half-disk of Swoosh, and stars. To the left, stars. To the right, Elephant, looking dazed and scared and alive. Beyond him, stars. Behind us, the airlock, the kitchen storage block and dial board, a glimpse of the landing legs and glowing radiator fin, and stars. The ST oo was a skeleton. Elephant shook his head, then tufned on his suit radio. I heard the magnified click in my helmet. We looked at each other, waiting. There seemed to be nothing to say, no comment that would fit without being obvious. I sighed, turned to the control board and brought the fusion drive to life. From what I could see of the ship, nothing was missing but the hull. Nothing vital was floating away. Whatever had been attached to the hull had also been attached to other things "What are you doing, Bay?" "Getting us out of here. You can throw your tantrum now." "Why? I mean, why leave?" He'd flipped. Flatlanders are basically unstable. I got the drive pushing us at low power, turned off the gravity drag and swiveled to face him. "Look, Elephant. No hull." I swept an arm in a circle. "None. Nothing." "But what's lfeft of the ship is still mine?" "Huh? Sure." IF "I want to land. Can you talk me out of it?" Behind that intimidating beard he was dead serious and, I was beginning to believe, quite mad. "The landing legs are intact. Our suits can stop the radiation for three days. We could land and take off in twelve hours." "We probably could, if nothing else happened." "And we've spent a month and a half getting here." "Right. Silly, but right." "I'd feel like an idiot, getting this close and then turning for home. Wouldn't you?" "I feel like an idiot for getting this close, period. No, cancel that. Yes, I'd feel stupid going home with nothing to show. But we do have something to show." "A skinned ship. All right, so the hull turned to dust and blew away. What does that mean? It means we've got a faulty hull, and I'm going to sue the hind legs off General Products when we get back. But do you know what caused it?" "No. Do you?" He ignored the question. "So why assume it's some kind of threat?" He was wrong. I knew it. But how to tell him so? #npe #I you what I'll do," I said. A I turned the ship until it was tail down to Swoosh. "Now. We'll be there in three hours if you insist on landing. This skinned corpse is your ship, just as you say. But I'm going to talk you out of it." "That's fair." But his square, bearded mouth had less give in it than a snapping turtle's. "Have you had astronaut training?" "Naturally." "Did it include a history course?" "All they taught me was how to fly a ship. And a little of the development of the state of the art." "That's something. You remember that they first explored the System with chemical fuels, and that the first ship to touch an asteroid was built in orbit around the Earth's moon." "I'll take your word." "This you may not know. There was a ship before that one, supposed to do the same job. It was launched on a course that took it just inside the moon's orbit, then out and away. About thirty hours after launching, the crew noticed that all their ports were turning to frosted glass. Two of the men wanted to go on and finish the mission. The third man happened to be captain. So they used their rockets and stopped the ship dead. "Remember, the best materials they had were alloys of iron. The hull was carbon-alloyed iron; the ports were thick glass, two layers. Our heroes stopped the ship # miles from the moon and called base to say they'd aborted the mission." "You remember this pretty well. How come?" "Doc Spinoza drilled these stories into us again and again. Everything he taught us he illustrated with something from history. It struck. They do a thorough job on passenger-craft astronauts." "Go on." "They called base and told them about the windows. Somebody decided it must be dust, lots of dust. Someone else realized that they'd launched the ship straight through the moon's lead Trojan point." Elephant laughed, then coughed. "Stupid trick. Wish I hadn't breathed so much vacuum. Sir, you're leading up to something." "If they hadn't stopped the ship the dust would have tom it apart. Trojan points are dust collectors. And the moral of this story is, anything you don't understand is dangerous until you do." "Sounds paranoid." "Maybe it does, to a flatlander. You come from a planet so kind to you, so seemingly adapted to you, that you think the whole universe is one big lavish government housing project. You should listen to the Finaglists. The Perversity of the Universe Tends Toward a Maximum. A certain neutron star would have killed me if I hadn't understood that tidal effect in time." "So it would. So you think all flatlanders are fools?" Dammit, I'd touched his exposed nerve. "No, Elephant. Just not paranoid enough. And I refuse to apologize." "Who asked you?" "I'll land with you if you can tell me what made our hull turn to dust." Elephant crossed his arms and glared forward. I shut up and waited. I'd have to land regardless, if he insisted. Not because there was only one ship. Not because I couldn't just wait here for him. But because I'd invited myself along. Soon he said, "Can we get home?" "I don't know. The hyperdrive will work, and we can use the gravity drag to slow us when we reach a system. We couldn't have done that with the protosun: too much thick gas going through the system. Physically we should be able to make it." "Okay, let's go. But I'll tell you this, Bay. If I were alone I'd go down, and damn the hull." S o we turned tail and ran, under protest from Elephant. In ten hours we were far enough from Swoosh's gravity well to enter hyperspace. I turned on the hyperdrive, gasped and turned it off just as fast as I could. We sat there shaking. "We can inflate the bubble," said Elephant. "But can we get in?" "I don't know. It doesn't have an airlock." We worked it, though. There was a pressure control in the cabin, and we set it for zero. The electromagnetic field that folded it would now expand it without pressure. We went in, pressurized it and took off our helmets. "We're beyond the radiation," said Elephant. "I looked." "Good." You can go a long way in even a couple of seconds of hyperdrive. "Now, there's one thing I've got to know. Can you take that again?" Elephant shuddered. "Can you?" "I think so. I can do all the navigating if I have to." "Anything you can take I can take." "Can you take it and stay sane?" 'Yes." "Then we can trade off. But if you change your mind, let me know that instant. A lot of good men have left their marbles in the Blind Spot, and all they had to face were a couple of covered windows." "I believe you. Indedd I do, sir. How do we work it?" "We'll have to chart a course through the least dense regions of known space. The nearest inhabited world is Kzin. I hate to have to trust the kzinti for help, but it looks like our best bet." "Tell you what, Bay. Let's at least aim for Jinx. I want to use that number of yours to give the puppeteers hell." "Fine." If it turned out our minds couldn't take it, we could always turn off. I spent an hour working out a course. When I finished there were precious few gravity wells along our path. We wouldn't have to check the mass indicator more than once every twenty-four hours. Elephant won the fingertoss. I had won the first watch. We donned suits and depressurized the bubble. As I crawled through the manhole I saw Elephant making the bubble opaque. I squeezed into the crash couch, all alone among the compressed stars. The protosun had vanished behind us. More than half my range of vision was empty space. I found myself looking thoughtfully at the airlock. It was behind and to the left, a metal oblong standing alone at the edge of the deck, with both doors tightly closed. The inner door had slammed when the pressure dropped, and now the airlock mechanisms guarded the pressure inside against the vacuum at both doors. Nobody was inside to benefit; but how to explain that to a pressure sensor? I was procrastinating. The ship was aimed; I set my jaw and sent the ST oo into hyperspace. The Blind Spot, they call it. It fits. There is a way to find the blind spot in your eye. Close one eye, put two dots on a piece of paper and bring the paper toward you, focusing on one of the dots. If you hold the paper just right, the other dot will suddenly vanish. Let a ship enter hyperspace with the windows transparent, and the windows will seem to vanish. So will the space enclosing them. Objects on either side stretch and draw closer together to fill the missing space. If you look long enough, the Blind Spot starts to spread; the walls and the things against the walls draw even closer to the missing space, until they are engulfed. Covering the windows helps, but after awhile the Blind Spot starts to seep around the covers. It's all in your mind, they tell me. So? I turned the key, and half my view was Blind Spot. The control board stretched and flowed. The mass indicator sphere tried to wrap itself around me. I reached for it, and my hands were distorted too. With considerable effort I put them back at my sides and got a grip on myself. IF There was one fuzzy green line in the plastic distortion that had been a mass indicator. And it was behind and to the side. The ship could fly itself until Elephant's turn came. I fumbled my way to the manhole and crawled through. S ome time later, Elephant caught me looking at my list. He took it from me and began to study it. It said: #) Velocity of star -- .# lights. #) Nature of star -- protosun. Unique in known space. #) Origin of star -- extragalactic, in all probability. #) Unusual radiation. #) Planet has no atmosphere. #) No sign of blast craters on planet. #) Protosun shows strangely high temperature. #) Planet has no lithosphere. #) Blast crater, vastly eroded. Dust? Why so thick? #) He II beasts confined to back of planet. Fear dust? Elephant nodded to himself, added something and handed it back. The list now read: #) Hull disintegrated. Eleven notes. Eleven irregularities with no explanation. They must be connected. "If we knew more about our hull," I said, "we could probably figure this out." "Fat chance," said Elephant. "That hull's a puppeteer trade secret." And there it died. All our conversations were dying young. Neither of us felt the urge to talk. The hours passed and became days. We took turns at the library screen; if the bubble hadn't had an extension I don't think we would have survived. Every twenty-four hours one of us went out to see if there were dangerous masses around, to drop back to normal space to take a fix and adjust our course. The few hours before each turn, we didn't talk at all; because during these times, one of us would be tense enough to bite. On my third trip I had no more sense than to look up. I went more than blind. There was nothing at all in my field of vision, nothing but the Blind Spot. It was more than blindness. A blind man, a man whose eyes have lost their function, at least remembers what things looked like. A man who has suffered damage to the optic lobe of his brain doesn't. I could remember what I'd come out here for -- to find out if there were masses near enough to harm us -- but I couldn't remember how to do it. I touohed a curved smooth surface and knew that this was the device that would tell me, if only I could guess its secret. Eventually my neck got sore, so I moved my head. That brought my eyes back into existence. When we got the bubble pressurized, Elephant said, "Where were you? You've been gone half an hour." "And lucky at that. When you go out there, just don't look up." "Oh." Why the blazes couldn't we find something to talk about? Was it because we'd end up talking about Swoosh? Maybe. The planet had defeated us without ever noticing us. We'd named it, approached it and gone. Two mosquitoes which the mystery world hadn't even had to swat. We'd left at my insistence. One day I braced him with it. "Elephant, there's a word missing from our language." He looked up from the reading screen. "More than one," he said. "Things have been somewhat silent." "One word. We're so afraid of using it that we're afraid to talk at all." "Name it." "Coward." Elephant wrinkled his brows, then snapped off the screen. "Okay, we'll talk about it. First of all, you said it, I didn't. Right?" "Right. Have you been thinking it?" "No. I've been thinking euphemisms, like 'overcautious' and 'reluctance to risk bodily harm.' But since we're on the subject, why were you so eager to turn back?" "I was scared." I let the word soak through his brain. "The people who trained me made certain I'd be scared in certain situations. With all due respect. Elephant, I've had more training than you have. I think your wanting to land was the result of ignorance." Elephant sighed. "You're sure about that?" "Certainly not. I get less sure every day. Maybe I was bluffed out. Maybe we'd have landed in perfect safety, stepped out, found a good, reasonable answer to these eleven notes here, got back in, took off and arrived at Jinx twelve hours later than we will." "Maybe. We won't find out here, will we?" We wouldn't. One of us was right, one wrong. If I was wrong, a pretty good friendship had just gone out the airlock. I hated that. I wasn't even sure Sharrol wouldn't side with Elephant. And if Sharrol decided I was a coward -- She'd only known me four days. Was I a coward? I'm no bom hero and never claimed to be. This was the first time in my life it had worried me. At times during that trip I actually thought about turning back; and then I'd catch a few menutes of Blind Spot when my turn came around, and I'd go back to just hoping we'd reach Jinx. W e came out of hyperspace near the twin Sirius suns. But that wasn't the end; we still faced a universe moving at point eight lights. It took us almost two weeks to brake down to a normal velocity. The gravity drag's radiator fin glowed orange-white most of the time. I can't guess how many times we circled back through hyperspace for another run through the system's lumpy gravity well. But at last we were orbiting Jinx. I broke a silence of hours. "What now, Elephant? You're going back, aren't you?" IF "As soon as we get in range, I'm going to call that number of yours." "Then?" "Drop you off at Sirius Mater with enough money to get you home. I'd take it kindly if you'd use my house as your own until I come back from Swoosh. I'll get a ship here." "You don't want me along?" "I'm going to land, Bay. Wouldn't you feel like a damn fool if you died then?" "I've spent three months in an extension bubble because of that silly planet. I've made an epic journey through hyperspace with no hull. If you conquer it alone I will feel like a damn fool." Elephant looked excruciatingly unhappy. He started to speak, caught his breath -- If ever I picked the right time to shut a man up, that was the time. "Hold it. Let's call the puppeteers first. Plenty of time to decide." Elephant nodded. In a moment he'd have told me he didn't want me along because I was overly reluctant to risk bodily harm. Instead, he turned on the ship phone and dialed. J inx was a banded Easter egg below us. To the side was bloated orange Binary, the primary to which Jinx is a moon. We were close enough to talk to Jinx... and the puppeteers' transfer booth number would also be their phone number. Elephant dialed. answered. There was no picture, but I could tell: no woman's voice is quite that good. The puppeteer said, "#?" "My General Products hull just failed." Elephant was getting right to the point. "I beg your pardon?" "My name is Gregory Pelton. Twelve years ago I bought a ## hull from General Products. A month and a half ago, the hull failed. It turned to dust. We've spent the intervening time limping home. May I speak to a puppeteer?" The screen came on. Two brainless triangular heads looked out at us with one eye each. "This is quite serious," said the puppeteer, looking nothing but silly. With those floppy prehensile lips a puppeteer always looks silly. "Naturally we will pay the indemnity in full. Is that Beowulf Shaeffer?" "Yes," I said, "but let's take care of this first. Then I'll find out what you wanted to see me about." "By all means. Gregory Pelton, would you mind detailing the circumstances under which your hull disintegrated?" Gregory Pelton didn't mind at all. He was quite vehement about it. His ears and neck turned dark red; his thrusting beard seemed to acquire a life of its own. It was a pleasure to listen to him. The diffidence he'd shown the Outsiders was gone; he was treating the puppeteer like a clumsy engineer in his own factory. The alien's silly expressions never wavered, but he was blinking rapidly when Elephant finished. "I see," he said. "Our apologies are insufficient, of course, but you will understand that we made a natural mistake. We did not think that antimatter was available anywhere in Ilf the galaxy, let alone in known space, and in such quantity." Elephant's bull voice went curiously soft. "Antimatter? Did you say antimatter?" It was as if he'd screamed the word. I heard it echoing from side to side across my skull. "Of course. We offer no excuse, but you should have realized it at once. Interstellar gas of normal matter had polished the planet's surface with minuscule explosions and torn away its lithosphere down to the magma, had raised the temperature of the protosun beyond rational expectation, and was causing a truly remarkable radiation hazard. It had swept the protosun's normal collection of gas and dust completely away. Did you not even wonder about these things? You knew that the system was from beyond the galaxy. Humans tare supposed to be curious, are they not?" "The hull," said Elephant. "Yes. You are entitled to know. A General Products hull is an artificially generated molecule whose interatomic bonds are artificially strengthened by a small power source. The strengthened bonds are proof against any kind of impact, degrees. But when enough atoms had been removed from the molecule by antimatter collisions, the molecule naturally broke down." Elephant nodded. I wondered if his voice was gone for good. "When may we expect you to collect your indeminity? I gather no human was killed. This is fortunate. Our funds are low." Elephant switched off the phone. He gulped once or twice, then turned to look me in the eye. I think it took all his strength; and if I'd waited for him to speak, I don't know what he would have said. "I gloat," I said. I hate sticky scenes. "Verily I gloat. I was right, you were wrong. If we'd landed on your forsaken planet we'd have gone up in pure light. At this time it gives me great pleasure to say, I Told You So." He smiled weakly. "You told me so. Antimatter." "Oh, I did, I did. Time after time I said, That Planet's Haunted! It Will Steal Your Life And Soul, I said. There Have Been Signs in the Heavens to -- " "All right, you bastard, don't overdo it. I owe you twice my life more." "Okay, we'll drop it. But there's one thing I want you to remember." "If I don't understand it, it's dangerous." "That's the one thing I want you to remember besides I Told You So." H alf of Elephant's house was buried in the face of Elephant's cliff. The other half projected into space, without apparent support. A wide balcony ran round that exposed part, also without apparent support, and without a guard rail. The guardian force field at the edge was naturally invisible. Elephant was somewhere else, off on his own business. He had missed a pretty good dinner. IF Sharrol poured us three after-dinner drinks from a squat green bottle. It was labeled with typical flatlander verbosity: Rothschild Extra Fine Brandy Napoleon #. The fluid was clear, with a brown tinge. "One last question," said Dianna. "What did the puppeteers want with you?" "They wanted me to explore the Clouds of Magellan for them. I turned them down." The girls stared at me, then at each other. I was a convicted liar. Unfair! I'd told at least half the truth, and the rest was a puppeteer secret. They'd paid me a small "consultant's fee" to make it a privileged communication. I shrugged it off and gulped at my after-dinner drink. I was trying to cough it out of my windpipe when Elephant breezed in. "The ship's ready!" he shouted from the vestibule. "We take off in a week! What's the trouble, Bay?" By then he was on the balcony. I got my breathing under control. "Week? Take off? Ship?" "Didn't I mention any of this? Gronk. I guess I didn't. Bay, I want to go back to the protosun. I've got a GP ## hull covered a foot deep in foam plastic. There's a foot of glass over the windows; we can ditch that if it frosts up. We'll build up speed with an oversized gravity drag. Want to come along?" The thing he was carrying was four feet long, metal, covered with rolled cloth which was slightly lumpy. I recognized it as a vacuum flag, with spring wires in it, designed to look as if it's waving where there's no wind. He must have read my expression correctly ."No, idiot, I'm not going to land. What do you take me for? There's a solid rocket in the mast. I want to plant it on Swoosh from a distance. It should make quite a flash, don't you agree?" "You want me to go along?" "Sure." "The ship sounds safe enough. We've got a week?" "Just about. There's provisioning." "I'll let you know in plenty of time."  We take off tomorrow. I've got a tridee camera bolted solidly to the control board, and a contract with the biggest broadcasting company in known space. They'll have exclusive rights on the first macroscopic antimatter explosion ever recorded. This time I've got a reason for going. by Samuel R. Delany by Keith Laumer in the February Worlds of Tomorrow -- on sale now! ' # IF  Feature L ast month in this column we were discussing the annual science-fiction achievement awards that are passed out every year at the World Science Fiction Convention. These little rocketships of stainless steel are called "Hugo Awards" in affectionate respect for Hugo Gernsback, founder of the first sciencefiction magazine in the world, Amazing Stories. Actually, as Sam Moskowitz (Fandom's unofficial historian) points out, Mr. Gernsback not only founded the first -- but the first seven sf mags in history. Hugos were first given out at the #th World SF Convention held in Philadelphia, #. The convention in San Francisco the next year omitted Hugo awards, but the custom was reinstituted at Cleveland in # and has continued ever since. Hugos have been awarded at thirteen all-but-consecutive conventions, including Cleveland '#, the most recent. Six or seven awards are made in different categories, such as best novel, best prozine (newsstand-distributed sf magazine), best short story or novelette, best fanzine, best illustrator and (sometimes) for best sf movie or tv show, most promising new author, best book publisher, etc. The exact categories are up to choice of the committee that puts on each convention. Now let's look at some of the Hugo-winners. Hugo-Winning Novels You may often have quibbles with Hollywood, when an airy bit of fluff like The Sound of Music wins the Oscar as "best picture of the year"... you may get mad at the Pulitzer people when they pass over a novel like Catch-# in favor of something nobody read or even heard of... but I'm happy to say, the Hugos are usually and almost invariably awarded to very deserving people. The first Hugo-winning novel, for example, was Alfred Bester's The Demolished Man, one of the best and most important sciencefiction novels of the #'s. Could you quarrel with that choice -- or with Walter M. Miller's A Canticle for Leibowitz (which won at Seattle in #) or Philip K. Dick's The Man in the High Castle (Washington, D.C., #)? I wouldn't, anyway. Sometimes the Hugo novel doesn't seem quite up to Hugo standards, but (as was certainly the case with Fritz Leiber's whopping Wanderer , which won a Hugo at London in #), whether it seems to quite measure up to previous Hugo winners or not, the novel that gets the award is almost always "the best of the year." Taking an over-all look at the Mst, we see that Robert A. Heinlein has won three Hugos (for Double Star, #; Starship Troopers , #; and A Stranger in a Strange Land, #). Most of the field's top writers have copped a Hugo or two: Eric Frank Russell, Murray Leinster, Jack Vance, Damon Knight, James Blish, Arthur C. Clarke, Avram Davidson, Poul Anderson, Brian Aldiss, Clifford D. Simak, Fritz Leiber... but there have been some very odd omissions. Whatever Happened To... ? Consider Arthur C. Clarke, Poul Anderson, Damon Knight and Jack Vance. These men have produced some of the most marvelous sf novels of all time... yet Clarke has only won a single Hugo (for a short story called The Star in #), Anderson came away with two (despite his many superlative novels, he only won for a short story, The Longest Voyage in #, and for a "short fiction" called No Truce with Kings in #), and poor Damon Knight got his lone Hugo for his criticism ! Jack Vance received a Hugo for The Dragon Masters, but, although it was long enough for Ace Books to issue it as a novel, the novel award that year (#) went to Phil Dick, and Vance was left with "best short fiction." And consider that no Hugos for fiction have ever gone to L. Sprague de Camp, Frederik Pohl, Ray Bradbury, A.E. Van Vogt, Theodore Sturgeon or Keith Laumer (who certainly should have been Hugoed as "most promising new author"). Then look at the artists. In a field come certain artists virtually monopolize the Hugo for art? Frank Kelly Freas, admittedly a good man with pen or brush, won no less than four Hugos (#, '#, '#, and '#). Yet Virgil Finlay and Hannes Bok had to be content with one lonely Hugo each. Even worse, Ed Emshwiller carried off a whole armful of Hugos (in #, '#, '#, '#, and #), yet Richard Powers, who has been adorning Ballantine Book's covers gorgeously for # years, hasn't won so much as one. The Magazines Things get even less fair when we turn to the prozines. The Magazine of Fantasy  Science Fiction won Hugos in #, '#, '#, and '#. Astounding (which, in midstream, changed its name to Analog) has a whole shelf-full -- eight Hugos -- yet Galaxy only won a single Hugo in #, and that was on a tie with Virginia, there are other science-fiction magazines in America) have thus far been unlucky. It doesn't seem quite fair, does it, for two magazines to come away with all but two of the fourteen Hugos thus far given out to the prozines! Happily, though, at the latest convention, the Hugo broke out of the Hugo went to... but we'll get to the # Tricon Hugos in just a bit! A New Award: The Nebula Under the leadership of Damon Knight, a new professional organization called "Science Fiction Writers of America" has come into being. A sort of sf writers' union, the as a sounding board for ideas and news and criticism, to say nothing of its service as a common meetingground where established veteran writers and first-sale newcomers can share know-how on contracts, the crotchets of various editors and publishers and so on. sented the first of a series of annual "Nebula" awards, in two dinners given simultaneously at the  The British prozine, New Worlds, won a Hugo for "best professional magazine, British." That was at the # convention in London, so it figures. -- LC Overseas Press Club in New York and at McHenry's Tail O the Cock in Beverly Hills. The Nebula was designed by Judith Ann Lawrence (Mrs. James Blish), from a design created by Kate Wilhelm (Mrs. Damon Knight), and executed by Daniel Levy of the Richley Company in New York. It consists of a spiral nebula made of metallic glitter, suspended over a crystal other-worldly landscape, all of which is "frozen" within a rectangular block of transparent lucite, with the relevant information engraved on the base. Very nifty. Winners of these first Nebulas in history were Frank Herbert, for Dune as best novel of the year; Brian W. Aldiss, for The Saliva Tree and Roger Zelazny, for He Who Shapes -- this was a tie for best novella -- and, for best novelette (I'm not sure what the difference is between a "novelette" and a "novella" but never mind), Roger Zelazny, for The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth . Last Nebula went to Harlan Ellison, for u Repent, Harlequin!" , Said the Ticktockman, as best short story. You will note that Roger Zelazny, still a newcomer to science-fiction writing, walked away with two Nebulas! The # Hugos Over the Labor Day weekend, the # World Science Convention was held in Cleveland, Ohio. The convention, I am told, had something like # paid members, some # IF of whom actually attended the Tricon, as the convention was called. The high point of every world convention, for me at least, is the Hugo presentation ceremonies. This year Hugos were given in six categories: best novel, best short fiction, best prozine, best fanzine, best artist and best all-time series. Hugo for best novel of # was -- for the first time in Hugo history -- a tie . Duplicate awards were made to Frank Herbert for Dune and to Roger Zelazny for his And Call Me Conrad. (In the paperback edition, Zelazny's novel is called This Immortal ) . Hugo for best short fiction went to former fan Harlan Ellison for -- you guessed it! -- "Repent, Harlequin !" , Said The Ticktockman. Notice how the Hugos agree very closely with the Nebulas; even to including Zelazny's The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth as a contender for the Hugo for short fiction. It was nominated, but did not win; Zelazny still managed to carry off at least one Hugo to set with his two Nebulas, though. Hugo for best artist of the year went to Frank Frazetta, one of the best artists of any year in science fiction, but particularly popular for his glorious covers on so many of the Edgar Rice Burroughs paperbacks. Best fanzine Hugo went to discussed in this column a few issues roughs fanzines" as you might guess from the title. A special Hugo in a category new this year went to Isaac Asimov for his famous Foundation series. This category was "best all-time series," and the award strikes me as a good idea. I like the notion of a Hugoin-retrospect. In fact, I suggest that future conventions consider the idea of presenting one Hugo each year for a writer's over-all contribution to the field... like the Edgar which the Mystery Writers of America give out at their award banquets to "Grand Masters." It would be nice to establish a special Hugo for Grand Masters in science fiction. This way, today's sf fans could honor those major writers who did the bulk of their work in the science-fiction field years before the Hugo awards were even thought of. Burroughs, for example, or Doc Smith, Olaf StapleHamilton... lots of fine writers spring to mind, writers whose contributions to our field are worth a Grand Master award. I think this is a good idea, and I hope future conventions will consider it. But I've saved the most exciting Hugo of # for last. Best professional magazine of the year: this year the Hugo went to Worlds of If! Everyone connected with If is thrilled with the Hugo, including Your Man In Fandom. As witness this special issue. I f you couldn't make the Cleveland convention, start planning now for #. If you didn't agree with the choice of the '# Hugo winners, come to the convention in '# and vote yourself! The Sepia Springs Affair Snerr Sepia Springs, Idaho July #, # Dear Editor Pohl: Our remaining member of the Sepia Springs Science Fiction Club, Mr. Wright, says that Earth science fiction is extremely important, and that science-fiction editors are even more important, and that you are the leading science-fiction editor on Earth. At the moment I shall assume that you are an important person as far as this planet is concerned. To the extent that this assumption is correct, I must depend upon you to help me and inadvertently this rather trivial planet of yours. This you must do. First, simply refrain from printing any letters from anyone in Sepia Springs except those of mine. Mr. Wright, who first contacted us, persuaded us to operate within the framework of his science-fiction club when he learned that the Galactic Council had sent us to Earth to evaluate how Earth might best be utilized by the Galaxy. This has not been altogether too successful up to now. Three members left as soon as we arrived. Two of them out the door and one through a window. The fourth, Joe Smith, a more obnoxious sort, looked at Rhudly, the porcelain man and said, "Snow White! That's worse than black! In fact, all of you belong under a flat rock!" Then, turning to Elaysia, he told her, "That goes for you too. Miss Overendowed! Six is uncouth!"  Mr. Wright explained, "Misguided survival instincts -- we usually call it 'race prejudice.'" I don't know everything, but I do know what is right, and I must say you will be wise to do as I direct you at all times. Sincerely yours, Snerr, Ex. Sec.  Sergeant at Arms This are Hurd the Turtle. Is great to read "IF." # Robot read "IF" to Hurd and Moby. Hurd Klip Sepia Springs, Idaho July #, # Sir Frederik Pohl, editor "IF" #I Hudson St. N.Y. N.Y. # Dear Sir  Editor: I am a loyal "IF" fan. The August issue made a very fine chaser for the Idaho Jackrabbit I had for lunch. Nothing like a bit of quality cellulose and glue to settle a stomach. It keeps the old chitin in shape. I do miss seafood, fresh seafood and alive! That stuff they bring to "The Club." I wish I had brought some of my offsprings along! They could have forged for themselves until they were edible. Of course there is always the danger that -- Ah, well, you, Sir, have been pointed out to me as a man of both means and discernment. Is there a decent seafood house on this planet? And would they ship food to me? The last time I went out for dinner one of the natives stuck me in a pot and started to heat the water. It cost Mr. Wright what was left of his fifth to buy me back. Your pronouncements are awaited with relish. Your loyal and obedient servant, Klip Amphibia II Member in good IF Gleep July #, # Hi! What a blast! Mr. Wright told all of us to write lots of letters to you because you don't do anything but sit around and read all day. You humans play rough! Lucky I'm a tough silicoid creature. The Club went out last night to watch the Sepia Springs fireworks. We carried our "IF" signs to show that we were true s.f. fans. A native spotted me by the light of a rocket blast and yelled, "Hey, Charlie, look -- a plucked parrot with an 'IF' sign! What's an 'IF,' something to eat?" The one called Charlie said, "Parrots don't have webbed feet and they don't carry signs like rabble-rousers. I don't know what it is so let's get rid of it." Then the first one said, "Charlie, you are a real philosopher. Let's tie it to a rocket and give the kids a thrill to go with their popcorn." That was quite a ride! After I dug myself out of the ground, I felt a little dizzy so I went back to the club house for the night. The club sort of broke up the celebrations or started one... Some native women spotted Elaysia, called her a "damn-show-off," and started throwing empty bottles at her. Mr. Wright took Elaysia away. He is always doing that for one reason or another. It was all a lot of fun. Your pal, Gleep Rosco Wright Art Department Sepia Spring College Sepia Springs, Idaho July #, # Frederik Pohl, editor IF Dear Fred: Sort of interesting things may be developing around the local s.f. club. I'll tell you about it at the next convention if you remind me. I'd write more but I've been getting tangled up with a little problem in topology. You know me, always have myself buried up to the eyeballs in some hairy project. No time for fun! Last issue of "IF" Yours, Rosco Rhudly July #, # Dear Mr. Pohl: I'm trying to do my job and taking time, just to please Mr. Wright, to keep you informed on events. Events aren't too promising. It is like this. I went into "The Counter," and had lunch. The people stared at me but I expect that on an isolated planet. When I went out onto the street, a couple of husky young ranch hands stepped up to each side of me and grabbed my arms. I could have tossed them half across the street but regulations say that I'm supposed to make every effort to cooperate with local inhabitants. The dark-haired man said, "You know, chum, this climate is going to get awfully cold for the likes of you in the winter time. Forty below, you know!" I politely said, "Thank you for your concern. I can stand a greater temperature range than that. My survival index is the highest of any known race in the galaxy." The light fellow said, "We don't give a damn about your survival index or whatever you call it. Just be a good fellow and let us put you on the bus and send you south." I told him: "I appreciate your interest, gentlemen, but I have a job to do here and I never shirk my duty." "Don't feel bad, chum," said the dark one, "no one is going to miss you. We are your friends. Nothing personal in this, chum, but we want to help you get out of town for your own good." "Nice of you to look after me. I hadn't realized you people were so thoughtful of your fellow man." The light one dug an elbow into my ribs. I think it hurt him a little. He winced and said, "Hell! What do you wear, armor? Lay off this goddamned 'fellow man' stuff. We took up a collection to buy you a ticket and here it is for Los Angeles, they will never notice you there." The dark one planted a boot heel on my toe. It would probably have mashed an Earth foot. He glared at me. "So you gonna take the friendly gift and beat it, or are we gonna have to see you again with less friendly ideas?" I told them I was sorry but I had to stay. Then I let them hit me and kick me. They both split their fists on my jaw and ran away holding their hands and swearing. It is a handicap being sort of a superman. I can't even make love to a woman not of my own race, because I'd squash them. Elaysia looks good to me, but I have to let Wright have her. Most sincerely yours, Rhudly Klip July #, # Sir Frederik Pohl, editor "IF" Dear Sir  Editor: Earth creatures are my type of IP people. This town is called Sepia Springs because the city water supply goes through Jim "Jolly" Green's sheep lambing pens before the city picks it up for their water supply. "Jolly" is the city water commissioner and gets a monthly rental for the city use of his lambing pens besides his salary. He's a good man. Forget the seafood idea. I just made a deal with a local cafe. They have trouble getting good fresh crab. Back home we have a problem with overpopulation. I happen to have connections with an interstellar shipper who has great respect for the dollar. By the way, I know a lithographer in Cheyenne who can lithograph that mag of yours in three colors for half of what those con-men are soaking you. Do come to Sepia Springs for crab salad, and maybe we can work something out for your own best interest. Your obedient servant Klip of Amphibia II Sanitary Inspector Sepia Springs, Idaho Snerr Sepia Springs, Idaho # July #, # Dear "Editor" Pohl: I tried to signal the Galactic Council for help, but Klip has redesigned # Robot "to do something else" -- freight routing, he calls it. I'm sure that it is something dishonest, dangerous and maybe even immoral. Klip has gotten in with some corrupt natives. Hurd and Moby dare not leave the club house. Klip tried to sell Moby for photographic gelatin and he wanted to use Hurd for soup and what he had in mind for Elaysia was really just awful. Lilly Bell is going subversive. Being a tree, her excuse is that she must be firmly entrenched on good solid ground with all roots deep in ultraconservatism. Hogal, the great snake, on the other hand, has neither feet or roots and he is taking up with a group of natives in opposition to Lilly Bell. I warn you, Mr. Editor, I know what is right, so print none of these subversive letters. Sincerely yours, Snerr Sepia Spring, Idaho # Lilly Bell Sepia Springs, Idaho July #, # Dear Editor: I read that letter by that sneak, Snerr! Her trouble is that she thinks no one is trustworthy unless they reproduce by cilia. As for me, I trust everyone, once they are able to see the truth. We tree people have our roots firmly planted on good solid ground. It does my xylem and phloem good to see a small but determined segment of the Sepia Springs population standing firmly behind great ideals. I refer to the members of the "Old Sod Society." The "Old Sod Society" is against taxes, out of staters, Galactic interference in planetary affairs, sanitary inspectors, pelio, electricity, big business and non-members. We favor everybody living right, poverty for the poor, local business if it is run right, the return of the horse and buggy, a seventy-year life limit for all but the bad people and the good old days. How do you stand, sir? For God and Country, Lilly Bell P.S. I have withdrawn from the Sepia Springs Science Fiction Club. The members all live in the same building, and I think this is subversive. Moby July #, # Dear Kind Editor, Please send me some magazines to read. I am sending you some old copies for trade. I hate to give them up, they were so nice. I would go out and get my own copies, but the last time I went to the newsstand some terrible things happened to the cars on the streets and some other small Earth people yelled, "There is always room for Jell-O!" Sincerely your fan, Moby  # Robot S. P. Idaho # Robot Klipp July #, # Sir Frederik Pohl, Editor "IF" Dear Sir  Editor: If you would reaffirm your good nature and advance me five thousand, I can double your money in two weeks -- less my special hazard fee, of course. I happen to have located a wholesale source of rifles and shotguns. Sepia Springs is about to split up into two war-ready factions; the Old Sod Society and the Carea-care Committee. If I swing it just right, I am in a position to sell arms to both sides. Hogal and Lilly Bell are perfect rabble rousers. Too bad they are going to end up in the soup -- but that will be a little more pocket money for us. IF That's the way the satellite orbits, as the old Earth saying goes. If you are a bit short at the moment, dip into the company kitty and cut those word rates. No one will know the difference. A man of your taste and judgment deserves the best, and I, sir, am in a position to let you have it. Your obedient servant, Klip of Amphibia II Sanitary Inspector Chairman of Mutual Benefit Syndicate President of General Promotions Sepia Springs, Idaho # July #, # Dear Editor, Since I landed on Earth I have never had so much fun in my life. Why would anyone want to fight? Love, Elaysia Snerr July #, # Dear Editor Pohl: I don't think you really are the most important man on Earth. I think Mr. Wright has grossly misrepresented Earth culture. When I get back to the Galactic Council I can assure you that some life contracts will be terminated. Moby is about ready to split in two. If he thinks that will entitle him to two salaries, he is going to have to face me before the Galactic Council. Those peraiecoids should never have been admitted to Galactic membership, let alone sent on this mission. They are just big helpless blobs, and have no character. They should be institutionalized and sterilized. The rest of the committee is still a mess. That pin-head Gleep is a happy parasite. Klip is a thoroughgoing outlaw. Rhudly sits and broods because the natives don't like him, but I always say, you never can expect much of a native. Thank the powers I never was a native. This mission has been thwarted. Recognizing this, I must officially warn you: the day of purity is at hand! Most fairly yours, Snerr Member Board of Censors Sepia Springs City Hall Sepia Springs, Idaho # August I , # Sir Frederik Pohl, editor "IF" Dear Sir  Editor: I regret, my dear friend, that you were unable to come forth with the five thousand dollars to help finance the ammunitions effort. I had hoped to give you a little rakeoff after the blood dried up and I had accessed my own personal expenses. As usual, I managed quite well on my own. The arms have been sold. A local banker, who had been indiscreet with another man's wife, saw fit to better himself by financing me. Lilly Bell and Hogal are indignant, but things are going so smoothly that the matter is completely out of their control. I don't think that there will be one brick left on another or one window intact in Sepia Springs in a few days. I now have a substantial account in a Swiss bank. However, it is temporarily encumbered with red tape. If you could advance me a mere ten thousand it will make you a hundred thousand in two months. That could finance some format improvements for "IF," you know. You might drop me the ten thousand in cash to my new headquarters, # Salvadore Street, Los Angeles, California. I shall be moving from large city to large city at regular intervals. As my kind old grandfather said before I had him for dinner, "The loot follows the population." If you would care to stake me from time to time, I'm certain that you will become the richest native on Earth. Your obedient servant Klip Civil Expeditor Chairman Swiss Investments of Salvadore St. August #, # Dear Editor: What kind of a world is this? A white man can't even get served in a bar! "The Counter" takes my money, why can't I buy a drink? I think I will cast a "no" vote for this planet if Klip brings back that robot. But first, I'm going to try  IF every place in town -- they can't all be bad. Disgruntled, Rhudly Pinney-Dew Lodge Sun Valley, Idaho August #, # Dear Fred, I'm going to be tied up with an education conference at this motel for some time. If there are any urgent communications, write me here. However, as this matter involves campus politics, please keep my whereabouts confidential. Yours, Rosco Gleep August #, # Hi! Editor Pohl! This Earth assignment is a living scream. There is a group down in the "Cabbage Patch," with Hogal, firing some real cheap rifles up towards the highlands, and Lilly Bell has another outfit firing cheap rifles in the general direction of the "Cabbage Patch." Moby split and the two of him take up the spare bedroom. Hurd moved into the basement because he doesn't like the sound of rifle bullets. Snerr has started to grow cilia. Elaysia and Mr. Wright went away. They told Snerr they were going to make a study of fringe benefits in human economy. If you ask me, Snerr is just jealous because sprouting cilia isn't as much fun as Earth fringe benefits, if you get what I mean. Your pal, Gleep Rhudly August #, # Sepia Springs City Jail Dear Mr. Pohl, Gleep, being a small organism, can move around more than the rest of us. He is also a very cooperative type, and I am told that he has what humans call an "exuberant sense of humor." Whatever it is, I appreciate that he has called at the jail yard, where they let me walk one hour a day. It happened like this. I went into the fifth bar, and it wasn't a nice place, but they served me a drink. I was sitting in my booth sipping an Earth type called "Jack Daniels" when this beautiful young Earth girl came in and sat on my lap and put her arms around me. She made me feel good. I do have glands, you know, under this tough white hide. I was on my fourth "Jack Daniels" and afraid even to lift her off my lap for fear I might crush her bones. She started kissing me. She wore purple lipstick, which probably looks bad on white skin. Then in came three men, and one of them said, "You freak S.O.B.! You're fooling around with my wife!" He pulled out a hand gun and shot me five times. The last bullet hit the end of my nose, and I guess I lost my temper. I jumped up, dumped the girl on the floor, and swung my fist at the man. I caught myself in mid-swing and tried to stop, but I did barely knick him on the chin. He is in the hospital with a broken jaw, cracked neck and concussion. If he dies, the guard tells me, I'll be hung for murder. Gleep says hanging me is about the funniest thing he ever heard of. I read about humor once, and I guess he is right, but I just can't experience the emotion. The guards hit me with a rubber hose. I told them that if it would make them feel any better they could use a piece of pipe. That Snerr upset them. I must have violated a cultural taboo. The council warned us against that. I could break out of here easily, but courtesy demands that I remain here and not offend my host until relieved of duty by the Galactic Council. Patiently, Rhudly HOgal Sepia Springs Care-a-care Society August #, # Dear Frederik Pohl and Company: In a few days comes the revolution. Are you with us? Your chairman, Hogal For Independence and Freedom Lilly Bell Sepia Springs Old Sod Society August #, # Dear Editor: Please state your position. You are either with us or against us. No other position is allowed. There is no such thing as a neutral position or a third side. You are free to join us or die. Your chairman, Lilly Bell For Independence and Freedom Snerr August #, # Mr. Pohl! The day of purity is at hand! My children are hidden in flower boxes all over town. They are small, IF but they will grow and we will save you from yourselves. Mr. Wright and Elaysia are gone, and that reminds me. After I have taken over, a little adjusting of the to reproduce by cilia shedding, a much more moral way than your present method. One of the first things I must do is eliminate pleasure. You will then see that most of your problems will be over. Believe me, I know what is best for you. Sincerely, Snerr Protector of Mankind Grand Leader of the Big Cilia Club Klip # Salvadore St. Los Angeles, California August #, # Sir Frederik Pohl, Editor "IF" Dear Sir  Editor: I tell you I know when to jump orbits. The general area of Sepia Springs is occupied by Snerr's misbegotten offspring. And if your Pentagon brass knew what was going on here, they'd drop an H bomb on the town. They complain about me selling my relatives for crab salad! Nonsense! Each race has its own brand of evil, and even that changes with the winds of time. The only true virtue is achievement, my friend. I've got the finest thing going here. You can probably guess what it is. I need # for guns and knives. I've got a shipment of ammunition tied up at cost plus ten. but get me the cash right away. You never had such a good offer in your life. Your obedient servant, Klip Rhudly Sepia Springs City Jail August #, # Dear Editor Pohl: Since you are so inadvertently involved with us, I will write this letter to you. This is unofficial, of course. Sepia Springs did not recognize good will and innocence in Hurd and Moby, because they were, to your Snerr dominate it because she was an aggressive bitch and no one stopped her. Lilly Bell, Hogal and Klip conned you from the start. They were too non-human to date your daughters and seemed to offer an easy way to get something for nothing. Gleep is a happy-go-lucky character with a tough hide. He just invites abuse from # sour dispositioned societies. But, like me, he is too tough to get hurt. Elaysia can primarily test the tolerance of Earth women and some of them evidently can't stand the competition. Elaysia is from a race of great lovers. I am human even if I am tough and I could date your daughters, and I look like you except for my porcelain white skin, which reflects light nicely and prevents sunburn. Humans get badly shaken the moment they face me -- except for Mr. Wright, and he thinks I'm funny, which I am not. I don't really have much of a sense of humor, but that is a cultural characteristic of my race. In any event, I'm human even if I am white. I must recommend a guarantee of Earth. Regretfully, Rhudly P. S. I talked to Wright on the phone, and he said he needed some more vitamins. Perhaps you can help him? Pinney Dew Lodge Sun Valley, Idaho August #, # Dear Fred, Stories may come a little more slowly. Elaysia is going to be terrific as soon as she learns to type. Best regards, Rosco Galactic Time ooX# Frederik Pohl, Earth Editor: "IF" Dear Editor: I was overruled, and it is only fair to tell you that the Galactic Council decided our visit to Earth was "inconclusive." They fired all of us. I found a new job, a lousy one, but I have had my revenge. I managed to help Klip and Elaysia remain behind on Earth. Good luck, Rhudly Opodipapod Salesman Quagmire II Sepia Springs October #, # Frederik Pohl Editor "IF" Dear Sir: Regardless of what the newscasts say or what my husband says, the Sepia Springs Affair is not quite over. In fact, if that elongated hussy doesn't hustle herself a new job as of today, she is going to be looking for six band-aids. Sincerely yours, Edith Wright Klip  General Delivery Omaha, Nebraska October #, # Sir Frederik Pohl, Editor "IF" Dear Sir and Editor: I'll be in your office at #:# a.m. tomorrow. I have a little insurance company underway, and I am looking for an experienced, alert executive, such as yourself, who would like to buy into the company and retire. Your obedient servant, Klip President: Executive's Protective Mutual P.S. I sent a stupid nephew back to the Galactic Council in my place. Most races think we crabs all look IF Where Are the Worlds of Yesteryear? Illustrated by Oh, where are the moss-covered, ochre Barsoomian plains, With thoat-riding, swordwielding, ruddy-skinned heroes so gay, And wandering war-bands of Warhoons in zitidar wains? The cold wind of science has blown them away. And what has become of the boundless Venerian bog, Where slimy and sinuous reptile did slither and slay, And princesses fled from malevolent foes through the fog? The brisk breeze of knowledge has blown them away. And what of the fountains and fanes of Atlantis the fair, Which rose from the waves in the West -- or so Plato did say -- Its sorcerer-kings, and its spires of orichalc rare? in the dry blast of reason they've withered away. But if Venus and Mars become lifeless and dull, and if no Atlantis existed outside a poetical lay, These luminous figments live on in our fancy, although The breath of discovery wafts them away. IF  Serial ff ff YY ff YY YY YY YY ff The Iron Thorn by Algis Budrys What has gone before Honor Jackson was a loner , he roamed  round the world . The world was flat and circular; a sunken desert , cold, wanly lit, nearly airless. At its center was the Thorn -- a high, blunt, nearly featureless metal tower. It was the precarious source of the only water, breath and livable climate for the Farmers . The Farmers tilled the fields packed around the Thorn, and supported the Honors. Honors occasionally ventured out into the desert wearing portable climate units they thought were hats, and honned Am sirs. Amsirs were vicious, horn-clad, flightless, winged animals who would have gotten in and eaten up all the Farmers if the Honors hadn't protected them. Like a lot of other things, Honor Jackson found out when he became a full-fledged Honor , that was pretty much a lie , maintained by the Eld Honor and his bully-boys for their own comfort . For one thing , the Amsirs were less vicious , better armed , #m had a bigger vocabulary than the Honors. To say nothing of the Farmers. Being nobody's fool , Jackson was pretty much on his way to being just about everybody's enemy. So he left the Thorn , left his solitary home and all his drawings, left his life, left even Petra Jovans -- who just might have come along if he'd asked her -- and went out into the desert, where a man would choke and freeze to death in a dozen dozen heartbeats if he lost his cap or got out of line-ofsight of the Thorn. He took his Amsir-bone throwing stick and his two glass-headed darts with him. Even so, Red Filson chased him down; he got one of Filson' s darts through his elbow and damn near died before he could kill the man and surrender to a Amsir. The Amsir dressed him in warm robes of human skin and took him to the rim of the world, where he found the rim of another world, full of thick air, choked to the rim with food, and centering on a Thorn much more magnificent than his own. Soaring around the Thorn were Amsirs. The food, unfortunately, could only be eaten by Amsirs; to Jackson's kind of creature it was just so much rock-mold. And despite anything a Amsir doctor could do for him, his arm was dying. It turned out the Amsirs had a habit of capturing Jackson's kind of creature because only Jackson's kind of creature could help them with their problem . Their problem was a smaller , somewhat Thorn-like thing standing up on the ground beside their Thorn. Like their Thorn and Jackson's Thorn it had been there since the beginning of time . Jackson's kind of creature could at least mess around its outside, even if fruitlessly. But no Amsir could get at it. It killed them. The Amsirs, science-minded as well as inclined to theological disputation, felt all the answers to the origin of the world and the maintenance of the gradually deteriorating Thorns might lie inside the Thorn Thing. In any case, they couldn't ignore it, so one after another of Jackson's kind had been trying to open the adamantly closed door to the Thorn Thing for the Amsirs, spurred by the hope-, there might be something to eat in there. Up till now they had all starved to death . The Amsir equivalent of the Eld had some hope Jackson would show better luck. Jackson, after all, was the first of his kind to surrender voluntarily, and he was obviously intelligent in other ways besides. The Eld Amsir didn't feel he could take too many chances with Jackson. So he set a guard on him -- Ahmuls, the incredibly stupid, half-baked, flabby-skinned, wingless Amsir whom the Thorn Thing apparently mistook for Jackson's kind of creature, because it didn't try to kill him , either. It just wouldn't open its door, and meanwhile kept growling something in its low , ugly voice . Jackson finally got mad at the door and spoke to it . In fact , he reasoned with it, was what he did, and the door opened . It turned out the door had been trying to speak the speech of Amsirs and Jackson s kind of creature -- it just didnt speak fast enough . When the door opened, and Jackson and Ahmuls found themselves inside a very small room, it kind of went to show that both Jackson and Ahmuls were the Thorn Thing s kind of creature, too . This series of events unquestionably held deep scientific and theological meaning to the Eld Amsir. But he reacted just as if he were hopping mad . When the outside door closed again, there were spears rebounding from it . Meanwhile, inside, Jackson and Ahmuls crouched nervously as the other door of the little room slipped back, and they were able to see into the inside of the Thorn Thing. # #tt T hat's happening?" Ahmuls VV said unhappily, peering into the Thorn Thing, jerking his head back to look over his shoulder every time another spear point hit the other side of the door, but then peering again. Things were beginning to hum inside the Thorn Thing. Jackson could see light getting brighter, dancing around in there; he could hear things going clickety-click. Most of all he could feel how strong the Thorn was becoming. All around them, a voice like the voice of the door said: "Uhhcumminngg uhup t full pow'r!" Farther inside the Thorn Thing the same voice said: "Standing by on full power. Main generators On, maintenance power supply Off! Condition of vessel report: All systems functional and reliable. Maintenance Mode battery drain excessive; recharging." "What's happening I ?" Ahmuls cried. "Don't look at me, chum," Jackson said quickly, "I haven't picked up any weapons." "You better not!" "I know." Jackson had his feet firmly under him and moved to the doorway that led deeper inside the Thorn Thing. "Will you look at all that machinery." "What are we going to do! Who'd want to stay in here!" Ahmuls wailed. Jackson listened to the tang! tang! tang! of spears hitting the outside of the Thorn Thing. "Oh, I don't know," he said. "Is anyone going to take command?" the door-voice said inside the Thing. I haven't worked that out yet, friend, Jackson said to himself. Any minute now this clown is going to decide something's a weapon. It's a little hard, taking command when you're dead. But I'm sure not going to take my orders from him -- he's worse even than Eld. Jackson felt funny. There was all this humming and buzzing; all these voices talking and doors opening; all these things happening that he maybe could have enjoyed if he'd come on them a little bit at a time, IF all ready to take them on or maybe take them apart. Maybe be them, or maybe picture them. But with a stomach and an arm and spear sounds and an Ahmuls like he had, he didn't feel all that ready. "Command must be exercised within a reasonable period of time," the voice said. "Huh?" Ahmuls said. "Command must be exercised! Stasis wastes power!" Nag, nag, nag, Jackson thought. Whatever stasis is. "All right," he yelled. "What'll make you happy?" # # Tj' unction. Duties to perform. I A I cannot come to full power for nothing!" "Listen, you quit talking to it!" Ahmuls said. "You've done enough already." "Listen, no weapons, right?" Jackson said to him, holding out his empty hands. "I'm supposed to talk to it, remember?" He raised his voice. "You got a name, voice?" Ahmuls was frowning, Jackson guessed. Maybe he'd stay busy that way just a little bit longer. "My name is Self-Sustaining Interplanetary Expeditionary Module," the voice said. "Call me Susiem." "What can you do?" "Anything! Anything a Susiem can do." You wouldn't think that was a lot of help, Jackson thought. But there was one thing he knew a Susiem could do, and it was with doors. He bounced off Ahmuls to get farther inside the Thorn Thing. "Close that door!" he yelled, and as he lay there on the floor again, he found that to the now more distant and less frequent sound of spears against the outside door was added the soft klop! of Ahmuls, trapped in the little room, beating his fist against the inside door. Jackson shook his head and looked around. The room he was in was full of machinery; metal and glass all over the place, humped, twisted, full of knobs and points, flashing and gleaming, humming -- "That's great. But I don't see anything to eat." "Certainly not! Do you think you're in the mess compartment?" Susiem said. "You trying to say there's another room here, where there's food?" "I can do anything a Susiem can do!" Susiem said. Klop , klop , klop, Ahmuls said. "Boy, he talks plainer than you do," Jackson said. "All right, how do I get to that other room? And don't open that door until I say so! By the way, if you've got food, you wouldn't happen to have a doctor? I could use one." "Certainly I won't open the door! You're in command! Report to Sick Bay immediately." "They got food there?" "Medical treatment takes precedence over rations. Report to Sick Bay." I'm in command, Jackson thought. "Where's Sick Bay?" S usiem led him back to Sick Bay by simply having him follow lights that kept turning on just ahead of him as he walked through a door and then down a ladder and through another door. Sick Bay was all white except where it was hare metal. The doctor was white and bare metal, and he had wheels. He unstoppered himself from a doctor-shaped hole in the wall and came rolling forward like a plow. He came to about the height of Jackson's chest. "State your complaint," he said. "My arm's going to have to come off," Jackson said, looking at the doctor carefully, deciding to believe Susiem when it said "This is the doctor." "You're not competent to prognose. State your complaint. How do you account for the fact that you don't match any comparison in my files? Show proof you're entitled to receive medical treatment from this station." "Emergency, Doctor," Susiem said. "This man is in command." "You'll have to fill out forms," the doctor said. A hard, soft-white square on its top turned a very pale white-green. A stick popped up most of the way out of a hole beside the square. "Take the pen." Jackson pulled it out curiously. It was the same shape and about the same length as the burnt sticks he had left behind at his home Thorn. But it wasn't burnt -- it was light, felt soft at the surface but was as rigid as metal, felt slick, but didn't slip from his fingers. At the very end of it was what looked like a little ball of glass. "Well?" Jackson peered at the greenwhite square. There were lines running across it now, bright white. At the beginnings of the lines there were shapes of some kind -- patterns made out of lines, bent and crossing each other. "Kind of pretty," he said. "Criticism is not your function. Fill out the forms." Susiem said. "Well, let him make some kind of mark," the doctor said impatiently. "I'm sure there are others waiting. He's wasting time." "He's in command." "Well, then he certainly ought to be literate." # ook -- I order you to make yourself understandable," Jackson told the doctor. "My arm hurts, and I'm hungry." "Do you know how to make a mark? Make a mark on the surface of the plate with the lightpen. I have to have some sort of identification for you or I can't file you. And if I can't file you, you're lost." "Oh. You just want to be able to find me again. Well, here's what I look like." The little ball slipped much too easily over the top of the plate, if that was what you called it, but the light-pen, or whatever, left a nice white line behind it. Jackson started turning his wrist to thicken and thin it, and that didn't work, but by and large he had a pretty good picture of himself down on the plate very soon. For good measure, he took one corner of the plate and made a drawing of his arm IF bones, showing where the dart had gone in. "That's what's wrong with me. The dart's been pulled out, but the arm died." The doctor and Susiem didn't say anything for a little bit. Finally the doctor said: "Your knowledge of anatomy isn't bad." "Draws well, too," Susiem said. "You can tell what you're looking at. Not like this paraphrastic stuff they do." "The arm," Jackson said. "Certainly the arm," the doctor answered. "Uh -- let's just have an overall look at you, while we're about it." The doctor shimmied back and forth on his wheels for a moment. There was a little humming plow-noise inside him. "Hmm. Yes. Well -- you've certainly led an active life. But it's all healed very nicely -- barring some of the fresh events, of course. The only one that we need to do anything much about is in that elbow joint. You're going to need a restoration there. Your blood sugar is a little low. Are you fatigued?" "Huh?" "Are you tired?" "Damn right. Hungry, too." "Well, I can introduce a little protein into your system, I suppose, while we're working on the arm, but I imagine you'd rather have a ham sandwich. Susiem, why don't you get the captain here some nourishment while I'm taking care of this." The doctor came apart, partway, with some kind of flip of his sides, which turned into a kind of chair-cradle. The seat and back, and the part that went under the legs,  --  were padded, and so was the place for Jackson's right arm to rest. A trough that extended partway into the back rest was for Jackson's left arm. It was bare metal, and a little bar of light popped out on two stalks over it, lighting up the leather wrappings as Jackson sat down. # ick call takes precedence over  mess," Susiem said. "I see no reason why he can't be treated and then go to where the food is." "I said bring him something!" the doctor snapped. "He's undernourished, he's got one arm free to serve himself with, and besides, rank has its privileges." "If you record it as a prescription, doctor." "I do." "Very well," Susiem said. Something began to stir around one compartment lower down. "I'm breaking out a food cart." "For a machine," Jackson said to the doctor, "you got more sense than people." "Damn right," the doctor said. "Now let's get this slop off your limb. Who's been treating you -- some veterinarian?" "What's thatV "Captain, you need an education." "What's that?" "What you need." Maybe the doctor didn't want to go 'round and 'round any more; maybe he figured he could keep Jackson busy with something else. At any rate, something that must have been a knife zipped down the length of Jackson's arm. It laid open the wrappings as neat as any slash Jackson had ever seen. It laid open his arm too, and it sure did cut down on his desire to do much talking. He sat there staring at his own bones, pink-white, in the halved shell of his arm. All around the torn, discolored place where Red Filson's dart had gone in onits way to the elbow joint, it looked like something rotten. Sparks -- maybe metal, maybe light -- winked and flashed around the bone. There was a cloudy white puff of fog where the joint was; there was a suck of air and that was gone, whuummph ! and then the joint was gone. The bones of his upper and lower arm didn't meet by a full third of a dozen finger-widths. More sparks, and the ends were notched and drilled, the way a carpenter might make a pegged splice. The rotten place in the meat of his arm was getting less. Healthy-looking stuff was replacing it. His whole arm was tingling. The bar of light above it seemed to be shivering. Something like a little doctor came rolling in the door, and flipped open its top. Steaming warmth hit Jackson in the nose like the clout of a damp, hot, table rag. He'd never smelled anything so strong in his life. It poured right up his nose and seemed to fill his whole head. He blinked; it was making his eyes water. Lying on a dish were some greens with somethihg greasy-looking on them, a round ball of something white and made out of small parts that looked like maggots, and a rounded squishy-looking brown thing that looked like what you might find under a Amsir house, if it had been drier. Next to it was something with IF a long slim handle and four long curved points, a folded-up white hunk of something that might have been Amsir lace shaved until it was thin and crinkly, and a glass of what would have looked like milk if it hadn't been so white and opaque. "Lunch," Susiem said. "Salisbury steak with roquefort salad and rice. Enjoy it, Captain." Jackson couldn't make up his mind whether to look at his lunch or his arm.  T he doctor was really getting things done in there. Delicate stilty little fingers with hinges in them came popping out of his inside, from under the same overhang that the bar of light came from. They were carrying a woven white contraption that Jackson saw was a little like what would happen if you took a drawing of an elbow joint and bent it around so that it was an elbow joint no matter what direction you looked at it from. He found this out because the little fingers stuck it right in there, and other little fingers put pegs in place, and in a trice where his elbow had been was this white drawing, snugly slipped into place. He could see right through it, of course, but it looked pretty strong and solid all by itself. "Okay," the doctor said. "That's what we call a jig-splint. In a couple of hours, you'll have a pretty good structure of bone cells forming along that grid, and in a day or so that'll be as good as new." The two halves of Jackson's arm were pushed back together as the walls of the trough gently squeezed shut around them. The trough wiggled its halves back and forth tor an instant until the halves of Jackson were lined up just right. Then they fell back and where the cut had been there was a very thin line, like the scratch of a playful woman, running along the seam. For the first time since the doctor started, Jackson saw blood. It stood up in droplets like pinheads along the scratch, already scabbed and hard. The cut lengths of the Amsir doctor's arm-wrapping lay in the trough for an instant and then puffed out with a flash, a fog of smoke and a whooph ! "Eat your lunch," the doctor said. Jackson tested his arm. The "lunch" still looked like what it had looked like before. The arm was great. He twisted and stretched it, making a fist, squeezing, trying to see if it would pop open into two halves. It wouldn't. He rapped his elbow with the knuckles of his right hand. It sounded hollow. It didn't sound like him at all. I t didn't seem possible he had eaten. But Susiem had said: "If you think I'm going to throw away this perfectly good food, and go to the trouble of synthesizing burnt Amsir, if that's what it's called, and whole grain bread, when the whole basis of your being here is that you're human..." Jackson had to admit Salisbury steak, rice and roquefort salad wasn't bad. He licked the leftovers off his fingers. But he drew the line at what humans called milk; he finally got some water instead. He sat back. The doctor was still letting him sit in him. "You know," Jackson said, "it's funny how it works out. Here the Eld Amsir was jollying me along with lots of fine talk about maybe there was food in here, and something to do about my arm, and be damned if there wasn't. Feels pretty good. Thanks, the two of you." "What are your further orders, Captain?" Susiem said impatiently. "Well... I don't know. Is there some place around here for me to sleep?" "You don't need any right now," the doctor said. v" Sleepl " Susiem said simultaneously. "Here you've got everything turned on, and you're going to sleepl" "Well, it's something us humans do. Whether they need it or not. Can't tell when your next chance is going to be." "Humans," the doctor said, "sleep at set, regular times. The sort of humans we are accustomed to." "That's right," Susiem said. "Stasis wastes power!" Oh boy, it never stops, Jackson thought, even with machines. "Well, look -- you must have had other captains -- " "I should say so!" "What did you do when they slept?" "When they slept, the First Officer was awake. Don't you know anything about being human?" "He needs an education," the doctor said. "More than I need a first officer?" "What about the individual in the air lock? Isn't that your first officer?" "Him?" All Ahmuls was in Jackson's head right now was a Klop, klop, klop on the inside door. That was enough. He still hadn't decided what to do about that. But why did he have to decide now? It wasn't as if he was going to spend the rest of his life anywhere else but here. Being captain. When the machines didn't have something else in mind. "What's a first officer do? I go one's pretty good with a spear, I guess. But spearing don't seem to be much needed. I mean, you're made out of metal Doctor, and I don't even know where you are, Susiem." Susiem giggled. "All right, that does it," the doctor said. "I'm prescribing this boy a university. You do have the necessary fact library, don't you?" "Self-Sustaining Interplanetary Expeditionary Modules are, self-evidently, self-sustaining," Susiem answered, as the doctor's arms immediately, but gently, unfolded additional sections that held Jackson by the wrists. The seat changed slope, so that he was mostly lying down. "No need to get offended about it. Just be ready to patch through into my inputs when I say the word. And no stirring around in my banks while we're overlapping, either -- everybody thinks all they need to be doctors themselves is facts. Just get the tibias and the cytoplasms in the right place and anybody can be a sawbones! That's what you think. So stay out and do your job, and I'll do mine." What the hell were they up to? IF Jackson made one try at getting his arms out, which taught him he couldn't do it. Anyhow, supposing he'd get loose, where was he going to run to? Outside? Through the little room with Ahmuls klopping in it? But what the hell were they up to? Round pads came from somewhere behind Jackson's head and pressed it close among them, front and back, both sides.   A #I right, I'm hitting him with the predisposants now." A little thing like a hollow spearpoint whipped out of the doctor's insides, darted at Jackson's throat, stopped short but close and fired something cold and stinging into the place where the heavy throb of blood came near the surface of the skin. Jackson felt it just for a heartbeat, and he was still admiring how fast the little dojigger moved and how keen it looked, when it flipped back and disappeared. "Massive dose," the doctor commented. "I judge that with this individual, he'd better be predisposed to about the same extent as you'd need to teach a horse symphonic composition." Jackson could feel something very funny happening to his eyes and ears. Sounds were beginning to break up into little reverberating pieces. First the edges of everything he could see were blurred, and then he was weeping. Moisture -- great, glittering streams of tears -- pooled out on his helpless lids and sheeted down his face. A bulky, warm feeling spread out from the pit of his stomach. His fingers felt as if his palms were split painlessly and smoothly along each string of bones clear back to his wrists. The same time his eyes ran wet, his lips were puffy and dry, and the same time his belly was warm, his forehead was icy cold. He swallowed, and his ears popped. He blinked, and his tearfilled eyes felt sandy. "He's ready," the doctor said. There was another fine, cold spray at the back of Jackson's neck. "Inputs going in now." Something fine and ticklish as Petra Jovan's hair came in through the back of Jackson's neck, slipped gracefully to the inside of his head, and for all he knew, wove themselves into tapestries there. "All right, patch in," the doctor said. Whatever patching-in was, Jackson guessed Susiem had done it, because suddenly, inside his head, where he was, there was a feeling like -- A thing happening like -- Well, what was happening, was that, in there, and around there, what was being done -- no; what was happening -- "Who could I tell?" Jackson hollered at the top of his lungs. "Who would believe me!" I t was no different really from remembering it was like being a boy around the Thorn. One day he was just another brat -- well, just another brat except he was inside himself -- and the next day he was mmm p-S! wMM I here in the expeditionary ship remembering it. It was probably no different from that. "Well?" the doctor said. "He's done," Susiem said. The taste of hot dust swirling up around the Thorn as he ran, and ran, was in his mouth. The feel of the first time he swung his arm just right and the dart shot straight and true into the target, a buzzing streak of what Honor White Jackson could do. Honor Black Jackson. Honor Red Jackson. Honor Red Jackson, hurting and hungry, being a door in the alien echoes of the Amsir Thorn. And now he was here. Memory had no time or space. His head was very full. Hey! he thought, I was right all along! I was too small -- it was all too small, and it was all wrong. I was right and they were wrong. When he thought of how they tried to keep him down, and how they kept themselves down, he began to grin. When he thought about the Amsirs, poking and prying, trying to understand it all -- from where they were -- he grinned even more fiercely. Oh, wow -- mine is the Earth and everything that's in it! "Congratulations, Captain," Susiem said, "you are now an Honor graduate in Liberal Arts from Ohio State University. You have a special Masters in Command Psychology from the University of Chicago, and three semester hours in military journalism from the Air Force Academy. You are fully qualified to command this vessel." "I know that," Jackson said. "These qualifications are now on file in my data banks, and will be listed with Earth Central Statistics immediately upon my reacquisition of contact with the Associated Midwestern Universities Genetic Research project communications network," Susiem went on, tidying up the loose ends. #rrhere's no way you can tease A him out of that airlock and back down the ladder, is there?" he said, pro forma, but he didn't want to do that anyway. Poor bloody Ahmuls. If he got him out of the lock and back to the Eld Amsir's love, what use would they have for him with the ship gone? And the ship would be gone. He most certainly wasn't going to spend his life grounded aboard her now, even supposing her life support system could endure that long with his organism draining it. But that was secondary, too -- in fact, irrelevant. For who, knowing him as he was how, knowing how much time there was to make up for could imagine him going anywhere but Earthward? Earthward to Ariwol, he noted parenthetically. Earthward to Airworld. The tongue of his mind twisted voluptuously around the ability to make the long vowels flow; he took a deep, deep breath -- breath enough to make him giddy -- and said it aloud the way they might say it in nois: "Ayer world." So much, so much to use! Klop klop klop . Kick him out, struggling, to ridicule and scorn, to uselessness with the ship gone? How could Jackson do that to a creature at his mercy that he did not ever need to eat? Eat. "What about this lichen they eat? Can you synthesize that for... our shipmate?" "There is no need to synthesize," the doctor said. "It's a perfectly normal Terrestial form." "Oh. Then there's no problem. Let's bring him in. We'll control him long enough for you and Susie m to do as much as you can for his brain and data file, and it's solved." "It is not. You're already proving a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. In the first place, I don't know what you mean by control, but I certainly wouldn't take on any hostile organisms of his size with an arm as fragile as yours is at present. And you don't seem to have drawn the proper conclusions from his diet. I am amazed you were able to survive out there at all. I have no predisposants that could possibly do anything useful to his nucleic acids. You'e anthropomorphizing. To all intents and purposes, there is less kinship between him and the human heritage than there is between you and me." "That's ridiculous!" Susiem cried. "He's perfectly human -- he can't fly, can he?" "If you don't want your mistakes brought up, don't activate doctors." "All right, you two, cut it out," Jackson said. What the hell did the doctor mean he couldn't control Ahmuls? It was perfectly plain how he could control Ahmuls -- he'd been told about it in his sophomore year. What he hadn't been told was how to like it. But he'd been taught how to get along without that while going for his masters. It was amazing the things he'd been taught. "Doctor -- All right, you can't predispose him. Can you patch him up if he's hurt?" "No problem," the Medico replied. "Susiem, if we let him in, can you protect your components in that room?" "To an extent." "Well, then, let's get at it -- I'm sick of this place. The sooner we get this done, the quicker we can move." I wonder how he'll like Ariwol. H e walked up the companionway to the airlock level. He put his face up close to the door. "Ahmuls! Ahmuls, can you hear me?" "You son of a bitch." "Listen to me -- if I open this door, what'll you do?" "Kill you, you son of a bitch." "Ahmuls, listen close. You may not believe this, but I can bust you up real good." "Not if I kill you, you son of a bitch." "Ahmuls, I'm telling you -- they gave me a -- " what had they given him? They'd given him a weapon, and he had picked it up. By the time Susiem was launched, the art of unarmed combat on Earth had reached a point of development which made practice unnecessary and the karate-ka's callouses superfluous. The system had been refined to so simple a point that a mere explanation of what places to be IF touched was sufficient. Any man with a decent memory for instruction and reasonable dexterity could successfully apply it to an equally proficient man with slower reflexes -- and to all uninitiates -- with cunning rapidity and shocking accomplishment. Jackson s reflexes were not as quick as Ahmuls's, but his memory was as fast as Susiem's feed to his brain, and in any case Ahmuls just had no idea -- "Aw, hell," Jackson said. "Susiem, open the door." It was amazing how fast he was, bags of loose flesh and all, flapping and grunting, his feet slapslapping, his pudgy hands extended from his forearms as if he were wearing ragged sleeves. Jackson extended his body, right forefinger first, and touched him as he had been told, in the fieldhouse amphitheater of the sunny Canterbury Gothic campus. It was shocking how Ahmul's feet flew out from under him, and he fell backward to the deck. Jackson reached down quickly, and touched the one ankle he could reach; Ahmuls cried out. He probably hadn't often felt pain. Not once he'd gotten big enough. Jackson moved back out of the way: "Look, Ahmuls -- you can't get up to catch me now. Will you listen?" But Ahmuls could get up. People did walk on broken legs -- they even ran on them, when they had to, if they were in shock. It was just a matter of how much actual physical incapacity was introduced into their physical structures. Until things really disintegrated, they could just keep running. It happened on football fields and in parachute jump training all the time. The odd part about it ways it often made them run faster. Jackson wove around Ahmuls. His reflexes were slower, but the method was foolproof against charging attacks provided the eye could register them at all. He touched Ahmuls on the ribs. After that, Ahmuls's side was like a rawhide bag of blood. Goddamn it, don't ooze on me! Jackson thought as he made Ahmuls brush by him again. Aw, you dumb animal! "Give up!" he yelled. Ahmuls charged him, grunting: "Leave me alone -- leave me alone, will you!" J ackson touched both arms. He had to take the shock of Ahmuls hitting him, but he took it on Ahmuls's bad side, and anyway, Ahmuls then had no arms to hug him with. He moved them right, but they bent in two places, and Jackson got out through them. "Get the doctor up here!" Jackson yelled. "Watch out for my components!" Susiem cried as Ahmuls blundered. "The hell with you and all your components!" Jackson yelled as he touched Ahmuls low in the back, feeling the flesh turn to porridge as the shock traveled from where he touched, and then he touched again in the same place, just to make sure; this time he felt the same thing in his fingertip you feel when you're a kid and you nudge out a baby tooth. Ahmuls windmilled his floppy arms, but he had nothing to hold his legs up any more, and he went down, fading in the middle and folding at tfie broken ankle, putting out his broken arms to catch him, landing on his broken side, and then his face. He lay slumped on his knees, arms out, his face squashed flat against the deck, and only one red eye peering up at Jackson. "All right, all right," he wept. The tears found hidden channels in his folded cheek. Jackson dropped to his knees on the deck beside him. "I tried to tell ya," he said. "Yuh." Ahmuls swung his neck as best he could, very fast, going for Jackson's wrist with his teeth. Jackson pushed his head down. "Cut it out, please cut it out." "Yuh. Yuh, all right, all right, I've got nothing left." His fingers crept toward Jackson's ankle, dragging his arm, and Jackson put his knee on them. The doctor came rolling up. He stood there. "Well, goddamn it," Jackson squalled, "what are you waiting for?" "I have no authorization." "All right -- pursuant to the emergency veterinary provisions, I declare this creature is a valuable, harmless, alien life form in distress. I order you to proceed with medical services as far as your knowledge and experience go!" The doctor's sides unfolded. "Yes, sir. No problem." Ahmuls had quit trying to move his fingers under Jackson's knee. Under his face, the deck was wet. "What are you going to do? What are you going to do, all you soft things?" "No, no, it's all right, Ahmuls," Jackson said. His hand on Ahmuls's head was making soothing motions up where a Amsir would have its lace. "The doctor'll fix you. You've got to listen, Ahmuls. Why the hell can't you listen? I love you." "Did you have to hit me?" The doctor gathered Ahmuls up in his arms. He was amazingly gentle. He lifted smoothly and tenderly, making Ahmuls comfortable in his arms. He was shockingly gentle. A maintenance machine had already slipped from its wall recess. It was hovering around the three of them, jockeying to get to the deck where it was messed up. "Just wait your turn, Susiem," Jackson said angrily, facing the maintenance machine as if it had eyes and ears. "You have no sense of decency, no sense at all." XX #et me an audiovisual picture V-J of the outside," he told Susiem, sitting in the piloting chair. Susiem swung a scope toward him. The speakers filled with the sounds of outside; the rustle of wings, the murmur of wind, the ping and crackle of large expanses of metal in the open weather. The Amsirs were flying patrol just past the door, beating back and forth, spears ready. There was a littering of broken spears on the ground below the airlock ladder. At the doorway of the Thorn, the Amsir Eld, and the instructing Amsir, and a crowd of more than six but less than twelve apprentices of some type were clusIF tered there, in postures that were not essentially useful. He could hear them discoursing; he motioned impatiently toward the gain control and he could make out their words. They were disputatious and bereft. "And I tell you we must accept the possibility that we are the interlopers here!" one of them was saying. "Shut up! I can clearly recall a witnessed discourse in which it was impeccably postulated that if the Thing destroyed our kind on touch, how much more terrible must be the fate of any creature it would permit to enter its maw!" "Shut up yourself! I'll try conclusions with you any time!" "Eld!" Jackson said, and the Thing growled to the Amsirs at the doorway. "Eld -- stand clear!" "What?" The hard beak was up. The bright, dark eyes were searching where the doorway was on top of the ladder. "Eld, I have some facts for you." The communicator went dead. The screen was blank, the speakers were silent. "You are not permitted to contaminate the experiment," Susiem said. "You are exceeding your authority and directly contravening expedition regulations. You are not permitted to communicate facts to the experimental subjects. All facts required by the experimental subjects are predetermined, programmed, and were long ago introduced to the system. Any repetition of this incident will result in your automatic and immediate dismissal from command. This incident will be logged and recorded at the earliest opportunity following reacquisition of contact with the project communications network. You are reprimanded and are permitted to resume communication only on the basis that you make no further attempt at contamination." The screen and the speakers came back to life. "Stand clear," Jackson shouted to the Eld. He counted thirty seconds on the fascia clock. "Let's go, Susiem," he said, and with a bang, and a roar and a flash, they all went, taking the world's hope with them. E arth was pastorally green, its hillocks crowned by elms, its infrequent, low buildings starkly white. Earth was green, fair; heady with the wine of life; in a condition not often attained since the hills of Greece were first so limned by the I t hadn't seemed like such a particularly long trip. He had spent large parts of it in the piloting couch. At first he'd yearned at the stars in their great glowing panoplies, bemused to think that he finally understood what they were, toying at his mind with thoughts of immensity, with notions of how vast it all was, how marvelous its creation, how unfathomable its extent. Fantasy-grasps of mascrocosm and microcosm haunted his understanding. All this great clockwork, all this explosion and decay, these cycles and epicycles of infinitude distended his capillaries with shivers of delight at how vast a table had been prepared before him. For a while he thought he understood the infinitely tiny complexities that hurtled round about themselves to mensity. And Susiem did much to sustain this feeling for him. She groaned and whined, thumping and jolting within herself all around him; his couch hummed to her trembling. Each start of ignition, each fit of clicking busyness seemed to reflect another spasm of gobbling at the miles between where he was and the nebulae on which his eyesight rested. But a couple of days went by and it occurred to him that the nebulae weren't getting effectively closer. He had a clear intellectual understanding of how many miles per day were being clocked on Susiem's instruments. He got the idea that he ought to calculate how many days of whining, banging, and groaning from this tireless mechanism he'd have to endure before he got to the nearest nebula. It came to him that there was just so much of that a man could put up with. Susiem could put up with it forever of course. Only somebody like Susiem was liable to want, to. "How's the doctor coming along with Ahmuls?" he asked her, thinking a good way to put it was that he was lonely among a myriad of stars. "I'll check... He's reporting good progress. Considering healing had been accomplished and the patient is resting. His manner is subdued." "Yeah, well. He's had a lot happen to him." He had Susiem close the ablation shutters on the piloting windows again. And for a while he had her run tapes of Earth. He found that it was just as he remembered it -- swarming with Man and his works, beautiful beyond belief, busy in its beauty, echoing with flashes of light and sound, a-shake with motion, singing of power to the morning and the evening wind. He created little moments of naivete for himself. He looked at the rivers tumbling down out of the mountains and rowelling across the plains while saying to himself I never knew there was that much water in the world; how green everything is, how full I He looked at the cities where the rivers forked, at the shipping complexes in the deltas where rivers and Ocean mingled, and he cried out to himself Thalassa ! Thai ass a! He compared the flight of supersonic aircraft with flappings of Amsirs and he pretended to see a portable rocket launcher in terms of a demigod's throwing stick. He craned his neck at the cloudraking spires of the mighty cities. And he made the back of his mind wail: "Alas, Thorn!" Ah, horse apples, he said after very little of that, being a man with a Master's, and had Susiem turn it off. What to do? Jackson had another meal -- this time it was delicious, because he knew how to order. There was even wine. Wine was considerably better than beer. But it left him moody. He had Susiem play him some music. He read from her library, .# IF sticking mainly to entertainment; westerns, mostly, at first. Susiem's library had a first chapter precis index; by using it lackadasically and carelessly, he tripped over the Big Little Book version of John Carter of Mars and from there his taste spiralled outward. He had gotten as far as G-#'s struggle against the Kaiser's land-crawling aircraft carrier when Susiem passed him the word the Ahmuls was ready to be talked to. iXou feeling all right?" I "He feels fine," the doctor said. "All his structural damage is repaired and healed. It was a massive job, but what with all the things I know how to do -- and three day's sleep -- he's fine." Ahmuls was sitting propped halfway up in a Sick Bay bunk, leaning back into a corner. There were shadows across his face. But he had his hands up framing his cheeks, and you could see lights glinting on his open eyes. "How do you feel about all that?" Jackson said. "Feel rotten," Ahmuls mumbled. "That doctor machine says we're going someplace. Where to?" "Yeah, well. That's what I'm here to explain. You all done trying to kill me?" "Can't kill you, you son of a bitch." "Aw, come on, Ahmuls. I'm glad you're all done trying to kill me, but I wish you wouldn't call me names. Look, it's not like it was, all our lives. It's all different." "I'm no different." "Well, I am!" "You say." "Well, will you listen?" "Gotta listen. You can kill me." Jackson sighed and gestured toward a chair-cubby. The chair came promptly out of the wall. He sat down on it with the feeling that he might be here a long time. "All right. So listen. Where we were before was a place called Mars." "Amsirs," Ahmuls repeated studiously. "Okay, now there were these two places where people lived. My place and yours." "One place, where Amsirs lived. You're not people. Maybe I'm not people. But I'm not as soft as you are." "There were these two places where people lived. Amsirs and humans. But they came from the same place. The reason Amsirs looked different from people is because somebody wanted to see if people could be changed." "Humans look different from Amsirs. Amsirs are people." And so on. Jackson spent the better part of the rest of the trip trying to explain genetics to Ahmuls. But Ahmuls had the idea he already knew as much as anybody could teach him. He sat on his bunk most of the time, eating little brickshaped packets of lichen as they were issued to him by Susiem according to the doctor's menu, and every so often either he or Jackson had to stop to go to the Head. But he listened because Jackson could kill him if he didn't. This seemed to be an attitude Ahmuls had learned long before he had Jackson for a tutor. Finally, Susiem told Jackson they were only hours away from docking at Columbus, Ohio, and that he had better start getting presentable. "All right," Jackson said. "Ah muls, you hear that? Now pretty soon you're going to get a chance to really see something. You're going to see more people and more machinery than either you or me ever had any idea of. You're going to see the place we all come from. Your folks, my folks, the Amsirs folks. We all come from the same place. You're going to get to see people living in houses stacked up two hundred houses tall. You're going to get to see places that make the whole place the Amsirs live in look no bigger than the way one Amsir house looks compared to the whole bunch of them. You're going to see things zipping across the sky three, five hundred times quicker'n a Amsir can fly falling straight down." Ahmuls said: "How many dozen is that?" "Oh, dear God. All right. Don't learn. I'm trying to tell you you're going to see things that you won't know how to act about. You're going to have more chances to be happy than you've ever thought of." Well, it seemed reasonable. Wide as the world was, and as complex as he he knew it could be, there had to be something in it for the poor freak. For the poor, dangerous freak. "And there's going to be lots of chances for you to be stupid, and IF for you to get hurt. So I'm telling you one last time -- you don't want to learn, all right, you don't have to learn. But, by God, at least know you're stupid. Don't go pushing into things. Watch and wait. Walk soft. Maybe after a while you'll realize I'm giving you the straight goods. Any time you're ready, you just tell me and I'll do my best to tell you the straight of it again." "I'm straight now," Ahmuls said, twiddling the flesh that grew on his arms where his wings should have been. J ust before they hit atmosphere, Jackson came down to Sick Bay to be with Ahmuls, knowing how the noise and the changes of acceleration would upset him. Jackson was wearing his captain's pale blue coverall with the Associated Universities shoulder patch. "What you got on you?" Ahmuls asked. "This is clothes," Jackson said. "I had Susiem make some for you, too. Here." He passed over the specially cut coveralls. "You got to put these on too. It's like a blanket. It keeps the cold and the sun off you." "I ain't never seen you wear clothes before." "Well, I didn't. But I know better now." "I don't know any better." "Look, you want them all to think you're a freak?" "What, those soft people you said all look like you?" "Come on, Ahmuls, put the clothes on." "You going to kill me if I don't put the clothes on? I ain't cold and there ain't no sun on me. Don't they know enough to go into those houses when they have to?" He dropped the coveralls on the floor. Jackson shook his head. "All right, Ahmuls. All right." He stretched out on another bunk. His skin was already chafed in a couple of places; it was having a hard time getting used to the whole idea of being wrapped up all around the legs and crotch. But he was very badly embarrassed at the thought of stepping out in front of a spaceport full of people with a naked freak at his side. It was, when he stopped to think of it, the first time in his life that he'd ever been embarrassed at first hand. It was the damnedest feeling. It occupied considerable of his attention while the ship was coming down in her final approach. Ahmuls whimpered and lurched around on the bunk all through the process. What's going to become of him? Jackson thought. But Earth was pastorally green, its hillocks crowned by elms, its infrequent, low buildings starkly white. "This is the site of the Associated Universities docking facilities," Susiem said as Jackson stared out through the open airlock hatch like a kid who has just watched a dart hit a target broadside on and bounce off. "There have been social changes on Earth since my last communication from the project. I have just been assured you will be brought up to date on these changes by another source. You and your companion are instructed to debark from this vessel immediately, since it is no longer classified habitable. Attention, all hands! Captain going ashore!" "Good-by fellows," the doctor said as Jackson and Ahmuls slipped down the ladder. "Don't worry, Ahmuls -- your menu's on file with Central. They tell me all you have to do when you get hungry is say so out loud!" "Always did," Ahmuls said. J ackson looked at Susiem's height. She was beginning to ring. He noticed a swarm of bright, dancing insects? -- whirling around the very tip of her prow. They were bulleting in from over the top of the nearest hillock, in a stream that thickened rapidly, divided to pass around the trunks and through the branches of the elms and clustered more and more passionately around the tip. The ringing sound increased in volume, and he saw that Susiem was blunted. Her prow was gone. As he watched, the tightly spiralling insects ate another shaving of metal from her plates, and then came round again, cutting off a little bit more with each pass, passing very quickly. It was like a Looneytoon of termites destroying Elmer Fudd's house. Some of the insects broke away from Susiem, and darted down toward the ground. One nearby seemed to be performing a typical action; it had a little chunk of astronauticsgrade steel in its mouth, and it was spinning like an augur. It bored down, Jackson judged by its speed, two or three feet into the ground, then backed out empty-jowed, and immediately streaked back to snip off more. Larger bugs came down out of the sky, burrowing into the exposed 'tween-deck spaces, and the component arrays behind the striped-out plating. They buzzed away again, trailing some few components in their grappling appendages, casting off most of the others, which fell in a swath beyond the diminishing Susiem with sharp thuds on the thick, clipper green grass and delicate wildflowers. Ground-moving insects and other metal creatures of that kind were waiting to pick them over, chop them up into chunks, plant some and gulp down others as if they had digestions. "Hey!" Jackson yelled, trying to get through to Susiem before there was no one left on Earth to tell him what was happening. But it was way too late for that. She and the doctor and the food-serving robot and the maintenance robot and everything about her -- except for Jackson's coveralls -- were dead and useless. Well, no, not useless. A lot of valuable minerals had just been put back into Earth's soil. Ahmuls was looking around. "I see some people coming," he said. "They ain't got no clothes on." IF IF  Short Story Latter-Day Daniel by betsv curtis Letting a lion eat your arm off isn't the easiest way to make a living -- but it beats starvation I B eale did not just stand there and watch the lion chew off his left arm. He helped! Occasionally he yelled loud enough to be heard over the growling snarls of the busy beast. His right arm clutched one of the iron bars of the cage, and his right foot was hooked around another so that he could pull one way while Nero pulled the other. Nero wasn't working very hard at it. Although his teeth were firmly sunk into Beale's forearm, he hadn't taken the trouble to gnaw the joint, and the ligaments were holding. Beale felt as if he were about to be jerked into pieces, and he didn't dare hook his left foot on the bars too, for fear Nero would rear up and claw at the shoulder and he, Beale, would have nothing to kick him back with. Beale leaned toward the yanking lion, hoping that the beast would let go and take hold around the elbow somewhere and grind those tendons loose. Somebody in the crowd let out a snicker. "Fake!" he heard the damning yell. "Robot!" somebody else yelled, and a bag of peanut shucks hit the back of his bare torso. Beale would have liked to yell back, "The Hell I am," as the cold blasts of March wind brought out the bumps along his spine. But the orders read, "no back talk with the zoo patrons." And this was a good enough job as jobs went. He had a momentary flash of the newspaper ad. "One-armed man needed for easy job involving public appearances." N ero loosened bis grip and started working toward the elbow. Beale held his leaning position, working his arm down while trying to act as if he were trying to get it out of those slavering jaws by clever maneuvering. Just then Nero hit the artery, and blood gushed out over his face and onto the scrubbed stone floor of the cage. "Oooooh!" came from the throats of the crowd. That was always a sure hit. Beale tightened the muscles in his neck and shoulders and pulled. He hoped his audience would be impressed by his heroic stature and fortitude. And that they still hadn't noticed how much stronger, longer, and meatier the left arm was than the right. Nero opened the gooey great jaws for a second and then snap! crunch! -- they closed on the elbow. Good. Hie forearm came loose with only a few shreds of tendon left holding it to the upper arm. Beale jerked and broke them and leaned back, panting and pretending to sob against the icy bars while Nero sank to the floor to worry the severed member, growling and snorting. The crowd was momentarily silent. Beale took the opportunity to sweep it with a single agonized glance. After all, he couldn't just bow and walk out now. He still had to pretend to drag himself painfully through the low opening of Nero's den. The show must go on -- he'd read that somewhere. Yes, there on the outskirts of the crowd was the telltale fluorescent green uniform of an officer of the Animal Protective League. The boss was right. You could never tell when they'd be there, but it was always better to be on the right side of the law. And in the zoo business the A.P.L. was the law. Or practically. Just at that moment, half a sandwich flew through the bars and onto the gory floor of the cage. Beale leaned over it deliberately, picked it up and gestured with the stump of his left arm at the sign on the front of the cage which he knew read "Nero, the Only African Lion in Captivity in This Country. DO The crowd rocked with laughter. Shouts of "what about you?" and "Yon did!" were clearly audible. Beale bowed. A touch of comedy was always good. Then he dropped the sandwich into the trench on the outside of the bars and, clutching the still dripping left stump, went around the feeding lion and crawled into the low, dark den opening. A slow sigh of regret that it was all over arose from the mob in front of the cage; and Beale could hear them shuffling their feet before they wandered away to other exhibits. A cross the dark den he entered the door of his dressing room, where he stripped off the remaining section of synthiflesh above the elbow, tugging gently at the adhesive synthiskin where it was semi grafted to his own. Dropping the arm remnants into the incinerator slot, he IP got out of his shorts and metal-toed shoes, showered very hot and soapy, rinsed and then dried in the blast of hot air from a floor fan. He put on his neat, dark gray shirt, his dark blue street shorts and stormjac, slipped into the knee boots of softly polished gray leatherene, ran a comb through his crisp light hair; and, except for the left arm of the stormjac which he tucked into the side pocket, he looked just like any citizen getting a late start for a respectable desk job. Bob Beale, insurance executive... Bob Beale, bank teller. Opening the outside door of his dressing room, he looked warily up and down the alley between the backs of the rows of animal cages. Zoo goers might not thrill to his quick change from victim to prosperous and comfortable citizen. "Mister... uh..." Her green uniform fluoresced gaily in the sliver of sunlight which hit the pavement in front of his door. "Oh," he said shortly, "Miss A.P.L. herself." "That's right," she admitted. "I'd like to talk to you, Mr... Mr..." "Beale." No words to spare for the likes of her -- though on closer look it wasn't a bad likes. "Mr. Beale. About the lion. You are the lion man aren't you? Can I come in?" she asked, her little black curls bobbing beneath the flat, shining green cap. "There's nothing to talk about. This show is just the way you people ordered it. We're observing every regulation in the book. What do you want me to do... brush Nero's teeth before and after?" His tone was sour. "No, it's not that," she said earnestly, as if it were quite possible that she could order him to brush those monstrous dark yellow fangs. "Well," he said slowly, "I guess I have time for a cup of coffee before I go to the lab to get my next arm put on. It takes a day to set, you know." He stepped down to the pavement from the doorway. "We couldn't talk in there... nothing there but the shower and my dirty clothes. We can get coffee at Alec's, and you can bend my ear, I suppose." S he smiled up at him. "Is it pri vate? Does Alec's have booths or something? This is important, and we mustn't let anybody hear us. That's why I suggested your room." "Yes, there are booths at Alec's." He looked at her curiously. "But I can't imagine anything about Nero that the world couldn't hear. He's pretty noisy himself, you know." They strolled down the alley, and from a break between the backs of the cages the lion's slupping and masticating could be plainly heard. "It's a plot," she said earnestly in a low voice, "a plot to kidnap Nero." "Well, I'll be a rhino's Aunt Milly! I suppose some other poor devil is being matrized for fake arms for the critter to gnaw off." "Ssssh! We simply mustn't discuss it here," she warned him and laid her hand on his good arm, then looked down at it. "Doesn't it hurt, sometimes, when Nero takes as long as he did today and shakes you all around like that?" "Sure, but it makes a good show, though, and .who are you to care if it hurts a mere man? I'm no animal to be treated with tender care." "I just wondered. Was any of that blood yours?" She shuddered in the cold wind which swept around the end of the row of cages as they prepared to enter the main concourse. "No. There's reservoir of the stuff (human, of course, from a blood bank) just below the shoulder. And there aren't any nerves in the arm, you know, just some synthitendons so I can make it move. Pretty realistic, though, isn't it?" he asked proudiy"I think," she said decidedly, "that it's entirely too realistic. It's effect on the audience is utterly brutalizing. If there were one thing I could do about it, I'd have it stopped entirely." "Come, now. You must be in the wrong job if you're more concerned about people than animals. Besides, you don't understand," they were crossing the concourse toward the neons of Alec's, "people need that kind of thing, really need it. You folks have done away with horseracing, bullfighting, foxhunting and almost all other kinds of hunting, game fishing; and now you'd like to make vegetarians of the world. It's against the law now to display any kind of dead red meat, and poor Nero would have to eat only his pan of pulverized dog food if I didn't turn up with a good juicy arm every couple of days. And the mob would turn to carving one another up just to get a little excitement. This is good for them." "I never thought of it just that way," she said, and then primly, "You're quite a preacher." H e colored. "I didn't mean to make a speech; but I wouldn't want to find myself in a lonely place with some of that gang that was watching me today if they didn't have their chance to come to the zoo." "Yes, and watching you just wets their appetites!" "It does not either! It satisfies it. Some of them come practically every day I perform. But let's not fight. Here's Alec's. What'll you have?" "I don't want anything. I just want to tell you what I have to tell and be on my way. I still have four major inspections today, including a dog pound." "I didn't know there were any dogs left to catch. You have to have more references, financial and moral, than if you were going to adopt a baby just to rent a dog. Two coffees, Alec," he said, passing the counter and leading the way back to the rear of the dark eatery. He stopped at the last booth and let her go by to the back seat. She slipped into the seat and sat very straight, her hands in her lap. "Now what's this about a plot on old Nero?" he wanted to know. "Nobody can hear us here... all the booths are empty. The seals are getting the crowd along with their daily ration of synthifish." she whispered. "They haven't had a lion for ten years, though they did IF have a lioness till last October." She leaned closer across the table. "Of course we won't let them import another one; and they've been jealous of Brooklyn and had their eye on Nero ever since. They've hired a gang of thugs to get Nero and bleach him a little and synthesize some new fur over that scar on his flank and truck him out to them. We got wind of it because the gang is posing as A.P.L. officials, and they're going to pretend it's a raid on the zoo for having some illegal predators or something. One of the leaders really was a minor official once, but he was fired for selling kittens several years ago; and we've been keeping a close watch on him. That's how we found out about the plot." "Well, you don't have to worry, then. There isn't an illegal predator on the place; and the gang would have to be magicians to get an animal transport truck onto the grounds without getting tangled in so much red tape that they'd be sorry they ever had the idea." He syrupped his coffee and stirred vigorously. "That's just it." She sat back. "We make the red tape, and in our uniforms they could get Nero out before you could say 'dachshund.' " Beale sighed. "Well, he'd be treatsay I'd be sorry to see this job come to an end for a while. I can always go back to selling newspapers." He shrugged his shoulders and took a drink on his coffee mock-resignedly. "No, no, I don't want... we don't want... well the local officials think that the Brooklyn Zoo should keep Nero as long as he lives. The zoo has really done very well in following all our regulations. I mean, if you tell your boss, he can have guards posted or something. You aren't going to let a gang of crooks have Nero, are you?" she asked incredulously. "You... you coward!" # # 'X Tow wait a minute , Miss," Beale protested. "You don't mean you want me to take this seriously? Why if another zoo stole Nero, how could they display him without having to account for his being there? The boss would just bring action and have Nero shipped back here by jet in time for the next arm-chew." "They'd maintain that they bought him legally and that the transaction was cleared with us and that our people brought him to them... if you could prove that it was really the same lion. At the same time, 'they'd institute a big investigation through the real A.P.L. to find out by what criminal negligence you'd allowed your own lion to die or disappear. Not only would it be a nasty mess all round, but who knows what effect it might have on Nero? Psychologically, I mean... the trip and having to get used to a new trainer and a different climate and all. It would be simple cruelty, but very hard to prove," she pleaded. "Well," Beale reconsidered, "I suppose we could have guards, but the boss hates to hire an extra man without pretty good reason. And I don't know a one of the regular staff who isn't so well trained that he'd let anybody in one of those green uniforms walk away with the entire menagerie if he insisted. At any rate. I'll talk to him about it. I'll have to tell him who told me, though. What did you say your name was?" "I didn't say... but it's Whipple, Delia Whipple. I hope it won't have to go any further than your boss, though, because the Animal Protective League doesn't want its espionage system revealed in detail. And I'm fairly important irr it." "Okay, Delia," Beale grined. "And if you see anybody looking at you suspiciously, you just get in touch with me, and we'll have a date so their spies will think your being with me is on the up and up." "Oh, I couldn't!" She looked aghast at the suggestion. "Not date an animal man! I'd be fired... or something!" The idea seemed to arouse her much more than even the plot to steal Nero had. "Oh! You'll go just so far to save Nero but no further, huh? Dinner and a show with a smelly animal man is too far?" His voice was rich with scorn. "I might chew off your arm in an unguarded moment?" "Oh you don't understand," she cried, her face white. "Our organization has no legal recourse in cases of disloyalty, so our security measures must be terribly strict. My mother and two of my uncles work for A.P.L., and if an investigation showed that I consorted with a known animal man, they'd get fired, too, for consorting with me before I even knew you. It's that stringent. I just couldn't." "Consorting, huh. Interesting word," he sneered. "You pick a better," she retorted. "Frankly, I think your whole family would be better off working for some free and open outfit like... well... a slaughterhouse. What do you get out of it anyway besides a salary? Permission to keep a Pekinese?" "Oh no," she objected indignantly. "We could never qualify to keep a pet. We all have to work, and there's nobody home daytimes to look after a pet." "You win." He shook his head and grinned at her incredulously. "I guess I just can't understand. I'll go and get my next arm plastered on so it can get its full forty-seven hours to set; and then I'll go see the boss and tell him what you've told me." He moved to the edge of the seat. "Mr. Beale..." she hesitated. "Yeah?" "You'll probably think I'm terribly snoopy, but why don't you get a real arm of your own with nerves and all instead of having poor imitations chewed off every two days?" "Couldn't afford it. I'm saving up," he told her gruffly. He rose and looked down at her and added, "I guess you'd better wait a minute or two so that we aren't seen leaving together. Somebody might think we were consorting." "Thanks," she said graciously. "You won't regret it." "Think not?" he asked and headed for the register where he dropped a couple of zoo tokens and glanced out the door at the same time at the crowd shoving past the restaurant on its way to the monkey house where the diapered chimp babies IF would be receiving their bottles from the prim, white-clad nurses, behind one-way glass. S uddenly he was startled to close attention. Four burly men in shining green uniforms were shouldering their way against the tide of the mob -- in the direction of the lion house. "Delia!" Bob Beale's voice was urgent. "Miss Whipple... quick!" She appeared at his side. "What is it?" "Are those your boys?" He pointed after the vanishing husky backs. "I can't be sure from the back, but I think so." She raced to the door, and Beale followed close behind. Once in the midst of the mob, they were carried backward for several feet and completely separated before they could work to one side and out of the thickest of the press. As soon as Beale got free of the surging throng, he raced for the alley mouth behind the predator's cages, to find the four men in green only a few yards ahead of him, standing truculently before the door beyond Beale's own -- the door to the service room for the lion's cage. Bob caught himself up short and sauntered nonchalantly up to the group. "Looking for someone, gentlemen?" One of the men turned, a pastyfaced fellow made even more sallow by the reflected green glow on chin and jowls. "No," he informed Beale curtly. One of the others raised a fist. "Want me to tell him, eh boss?" "I'll tell him," the other motioned him back. "We're the vet's men here to remove an animal for inspection for suspected damage. What's it to you?" Beale turned at a sound and saw a big, fluorescent green truck nosing cautiously up the alley behind 'him. He turned back to see one of the men opening the lion service door with a key. "Hey!" he shouted, "You can't go in there!" "Who says we can't, buster, you?" The man who had raised his fist came forward suddenly and slapped Bob across the face. "None of your back-chat to the A.P.L., or we'll have you reported." Beale shook his head to clear it. "Excuse me," he said deferentially. The man stepped back. "That's better," he said. The pasty-faced man stepped between them. "Excuse Judd, here," he said apologetically. "Judd, you shouldn'ta done that. He's a onearmed man... he couldn'ta fought back." "So much the better for me," Judd laughed. fp'he truck was almost up to them; and the four men hurried through the lion door to avoid it. Bob opened his shower-room door quickly with his key and, once inside, locked it behind him. Just as it was shutting, he heard a shrill feminine cry from behind the truck, but he had no time to investigate. He unlocked the inner door leading to Nero's den, slipped through. He could hear the men's voices in the service room on the other side of a thin partition arguing about who was to go on in and bring Nero out. With sureness born f long experience, Bob crossed the dark den and looked out into the main cage. Nero was still working over the arm bone. Bob crawled through the den mouth and stood up in the cage. "Here, Nero; here, pussy," he called to the big, sleek beast. Nero raised his head and looked over at the den mouth, then went back to grinding away at the exposed ulna. "All right, then," Beale muttered to himself. Looking out between the bars, he was relieved to see that no one was looking into the cage -- that in fact there was no one even near the cage. He went forward to the bars and gave the jungle yell which was the signal to which he had trained Nero to respond by charging at him. Nero got up sluggishly, looked at Beale inquiringly as if to say, "Another meal so soon? Good!" His tail waved from side to side. "You'll have to catch me, though," Beale said to him, grinning, and walked around the wall of the cage toward the den mouth. Nero walked after him slowly. Bob got down in his hands and knees and crawled into the den. "Come on, Nero," he called back. As he started to stand up, he collided with a heavy figure, which he realized was human. "What th'?" "One side, buster!" It was Judd, the man who had hit him outside. "Okay," Beale said obligingly and stepped to the left. T he man took another step toward the light of the den mouth and then stopped. "Gawd!" he yelled as the lion trotted through, blocking the light completely. He held out his left arm straight to ward off the trotting beast, and Nero obligingly jumped for the arm at the familiar signal. Beale's eyes had adjusted quickly to the darkness, and he saw Nero's spring. "Down, Nero!" he commanded; but the lion was too well trained, and his jaws closed on the muscle of Judd's arm with a crunch. Judd's gargling scream echoed hideously in the enclosed den. Beale kicked out at the lion's hindpaw and at the extended haunch before him. Nero dropped back to the floor with a "graaaow" of pained surprise and turned to look at Beale inquiringly. His tail began to switch again, and he opened his tremendous jaws hopefully. Beale pulled his left sleeve out of its pocket and waved it with the stump of his upper arm at Nero. Nero took a couple of steps toward him. All this time, Judd had continued to scream, but now the ululations subsided to an agonized whimper. Beale walked backward toward his door at the rear of the den, and Nero followed him at an even pace. Beale could hear the commotion on the other side of the service door. Somebody wanted to look in and see what had happened to Judd, and somebody else would be damned if he'd let anybody open the door and let that damned lion loose on them. Beale opened the door to his shower room, and the lion followed him in IF quietly and stood suspiciously in the middle of the small space while Beale locked the door into the den. Now that he and the lion were safely and cosily locked into the white-tiled cubicle about eight by eight, he drew a long breath and tried to decide what to do next. "Down Nero! Sit, boy," he told the bulky brute, which Nero, after a suspicious sniff of his antiseptic surroundings, obediently did. That was the first step, certainly. A hurried pounding on the outer door began. "Beale! Bob Beale!" he recognized the voice of Harris, one of the zoo guards. "You all right? Bob? Hey Bob!" "I'm all right, Tony," Beale called through the door, "but I've got Nero in here with me, and there are four thugs in the service room next door who were trying to get away with him. Send somebody for the boss and a bunch of the boys. You see they don't get away... that's their truck in the alley." He heard Harris shout away from the door and instantly after heard renewed commotion in the next room. "We gotta get outa here!" "He's got the lion in there." "Somebody go in and get Judd!" "You get him, then!" "Not me, I'm getting outa here!" sphere was a scrabbling noise from the next room, the rasp of the outer door being opened... then the sound of a fight from the alley... thuds, grunts, shouts, the sound of the gnashing of the truck's gears and the rumble of its engine... then as the noise seemed to recede up the alley, Judd's voice could be heard howling, "Get me outa here! Help! Help! Get me out!" Nero's tail curled up at the end and switched from side to side. "Steady, boy," Beale told him and moved to stand beside him and stroked his mane. "I know he sounds delicious, but you've had yours for today." Footsteps moved in the next room. Bob assumed that the door to the den was being opened, for he heard a woman's voice say, "Where are you? I can't see anything." "Over here." Judd's voice died away through a whimper. "There. Put your arm around my neck. Can you stand up?" Her tones came clearly through the door. "Now, up!" He could hear them moving uncertainly toward the door, he heard her shout. "Uncle Judd! What are you doing here?" A sobbing whimper was the only reply. "Well, let me look at you." A pause. "That arm's pretty bad, but the rest of you doesn't seem to be touched. I'll help you to a doctor." A grumble. "What?" "Gotta get out of here before they catch me." "You've got to get to a doctor at once," she objected. "Lemme go. I'll get to a doctor. Gimme your coat. I'll put it over my arm, and nobody will notice it." Judd seemed to be regaining competency but fast. "No, Uncle Judd... hey... ouch!" "Gimme that coat, I said!" "Oh, all right." Another pause. "Here." The door slammed. Then Beale heard a shout. "Got him. That makes all four!" Beale could hear tramping of several sets of feet up the alley. The door opened and shut again. Then there was knocking on his own door once more. "Mr. Beale?" "What is it?" "Are you really in there with the lion?" "Sure." "What are you going to do now?" "Are they all gone outside?" "Yes." "Well, sweetheart, you go back in and lock the door from the service room to the den, and I'll put Nero back in the cage." "All right." He could hear her reenter and do as he'd told her. Then he took Nero by the mane and turned his head around toward the door to the den. "Up, Nero." The lion stood up and turned obediently as Beale forced his head around. Beale led him the two steps to the door, unlocked it, stood aside, gave Nero a mild kick in the rump. "In there, boy." And in the lion went, to be locked securely back in his own safe quarters. Beale relaxed, and his hand went, routinely, abstractedly, to the shower button; and he caught himself just in time to avoid a thorough soaking. "Mr. Beale..." She was outside again. He went to the outer door and opened it to find her looking up at him. "Hi!" he greeted her. "A good day's work. Thanks for the tip. Now you better scoot along before they catch you, too." He gestured down the alley with the left arm stump and the coat sleeve swung free. As he stuffed the sleeve awkwardly into the pocket, she said, "Catch me?" 'Talking... consorting... with me." "Oh, that." She laughed relievedly. "I can consort with anybody now. That "thug" was my mother's brother, Judd. I've been consorting with my mother for years, you know, so I'm a permanent security risk. The Animal Protective League is done with me as soon as they find out. I'm unemployed as of this minute." She laughed even more merrily; and Bob Beale was surprised to find how infectious freedom seemed to make her laughter. He grinned. "When I get my other arm on, honey," he told her, "we can start consorting without wasting a minute. I wouldn't want you to feel too unemployed." I t was a mere two days later; and the lion was tugging him toward the front of the cage, teeth firmly sunk into the elbow joint. Beale's eyes could search the crowd for the crisp black ringlets under the peaked white cap of a popcorn vendor. She was yelling with them for all she was worth. So Beale did not just stand there and watch the lion chew off his IF Your Subscription is Your Private Window On the stars Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwaincr Smith in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Galaxy Publishing Corp. #I Hudson Street New York, N.Y. #  Yes, start my subscription to Galaxy right away. I enclose  my check or money order for: I I # issues for # # issues for # Name... Address w P City  State Zip Code U.S. only. Add #c per issue foreign postage.  Please check wnether Q new or Q renewal.  X   i  a X X The Big Time Fr it Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do J Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants) Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Aied Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey iM B mm p i V ; 'V  fit.  JiP mr gSggiv ml ,  ,T i W jTM i I jSb  I ' j#... cfw: The Road to the Rim Retief, War Criminal The Ethics of Madness and many other stories by Science Fiction's favorite authors Your Subscription Is Your Private Window On Baby is Three Theodbre Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smith The Big Time Fritz Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famoUs stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Wall The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoi Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do I Wake or Dream Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #, Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Star (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shori Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley tn Jrnnet Bond Traditions Sir-Spy Lets You 'See Throu' WaDs, Fences and Locked Doors! Secret of Private Detectives and Industrial Spies Revealed! A remarkable optical device about half the siM of a cigarette now makes it possible for you to see -- without being seen. Yotir children for examplet can play in the "privacy of an adjoining room -- unaware that you can see everything they do! Operation of the tiny device is silent almost impossible to detect. The eye-piece is not much bigger than the head of a pin. If you drilled an ordinary hole that si#e through a wall, fence or door, you could see very little. But Super-Spsr# unique optical principle, called expand multiplies your field of vision over # times, by actual test! With "X-Pand, almost no detail of a room can escape your Super-Spy sight! That gives you some idea of Super-Spy's powers! But the real surprise is the price: three dollars! Unlimited Uses: Super-Spy's uses are unlimited. With Super-Spy, you can keep an eye on the kids while they take their naps, even if the door to their room is closed! With Super-Spy installed you can observe beyond walls in your home, office of factory --  while you remain invisible! Professional Uses: Private and hotel detectives. Insurance investigators. Undercover agents. Security guards. Photographers. Store qwners -- watch diop lifting suspects. Emplors -- get eye-witness proof of loaf ing or theft. Hospital staff -- W'atch restless patients without disturbing them. Housewives -- see a salesman or stranger at the door -- while you stay safely hidden! You can even take pictures through its low-distortion lens! Important and IVoHtable What will you do with SuperSpy? If its important, in your home, for you to know what people do when they don't know they're being watched (and there's no invasion of privacy) -- get Super-Spy! Order spares for sudden or unexpected opportunities to observe -- without being observed! Order extras for trusted friends: they might be glad to pay you a handsome profit. Perfected in Germany Super-Spy was perfected in Germany. Limited quantities are now available to the public through a special division (Detection Appliances) of a reputable mail order firm. The parent firm's total sales throughout U.S. are over #. The owner has been a respected local businessman for # years. #Year Service Guarantee Super-Spy is sold with this #year guarantee: If it fails to work due to any defect in material or workmanship, you can return it as direct and out any charge, D.A. will either repair or replace it -- or refund the purchase price. All Rights Resenred D.A. specifically reserves the right to refuse orders without explanation or liability, except for prompt return of payment D.A., Dopf. #J#, #I Melrosg Avenue Los Angeles, Calif. # that I con see -- without being seen! Under proper condiI ions and within legal limits, I would like to be oble to I see what goes on behind walls, fences, and closed doors. I Please send me Super-Spy (s) on your #-year guarantee. Include complete, simple instructions for maximum effecHveness. I enclose cash, check, or money order (Payable to D.A.) I for #  # for #  No C.O.D.' # for # # for # Please! (Priat Claoriy) Name  ... Address  I State #ip VoL #, No. # issue # frederik Pohl, Editor David Perton, Production Manager Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by Keith Laumer by Larry Niven by A. Bertram Chandler by Algis Budrys by James McKimmey by Bruce W. Ronald by Vernor Vinge by W. I. Johnstone by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF puolished monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S. A. by the Guinn Company, New York. N.Y. # young child ie  m  bad H Bi n Q fluid n E QBia frozen water B #c coin D B Bliia large gun B  animal B not early Q B m not wide  El '""DffiGialEiiti#Blaiik--i Name this famous President WeVe filled in his-lifst name to show you how easy it is. Using the clues, you fill in the letters in the empty squares, that spell out his last name. Gentlemen -- Please enter me in your # puzzle series. Here Is my completed puzzle with #c for postage and handling. Please let me know if my solution is correct and rush all additional details of your # puzzle series. Name Address City State Zip IF  Editorial O n the #th of January, #, the space age had its first American casualties, when a flash fire, fed by the pure-oxygen atmosphere in the capsule, killed three astronauts as they were completing the pre-flight tests for the first manned Apollo launching. We all knew that we could not conquer space for free. Even a new airplane usually takes a couple of lives in development -- test pilots know this, and for that matter so do most seasoned airline passengers, because even civilian transports have bugs that sometimes are not detected until a planeload or two gets killed. (Witness the Comet, the Constellation, the Electra, the Boeing #.) And space travel is not merely a more arduous form of flying. It is a reach into a new dimension, with every part of its propulsion systems, life-support equipment, even telemetry and control brand-new and hazardous. Yet it was a shock, all the same, when these three died. The fact of death is nothing strange in this world, of course. Hardly a newspaper comes out without death in its headlines: for every astronaut who has died, a thousand men have given lives in battle... and ten thousand or more have battered their silly brains out in highway accidents. But these men died in a way that is unusual and almost unprecedented in this year of #: they died for a purpose, and they died without an enemy. No one in this world wanted them dead, and no one profited by the accident that took their lives. The space program will go on, of course. If there were no other reason, it should go on because we owe it to them. But there are bigger reasons: we (meaning the human race) have to conquer space because it is the next place to go, and we have to pay whatever price it costs to get there. We have been very careful with the lives of our astronauts, and up until now we have also been very lucky. It is certain that these three are only the first to die, not the last. But it was a worthwhile death for them; and while we honor them and mourn them for it, it is likely that, every now and then, we may envy them a little for it, too. -- The Editor, SlnAiiiM SlO Iimi y PmCK # h tvsr toertasing numbars. Wtstanrd to Itevads, when tho sir is fresh ind clear. Uies are low or nonlistiat and oNOrtaaitr is epoo to olL Yet, Nevada is booming and real estate investors are prospering. It b a pravii bet tbat maop ftbasa.s of Nevada acnan hm raailisd fsboioos profits from somU C#lP...#nty ailnutn from MEiU have tho backdrop of the auiestic Mbp Moontaiaa. Iba spartdiai HaoMdl her b a abort U aUb avap. Oaaeba ftaala aa a graded road ttat bads lata coast to coast OAHiglMay #. Amidst theta spoctaciilar sardciiuliifoofthaGoMeaWott modern schools, shops, theaters, hospital and airport b only # miles Inf remote tend where purchasers hava to hops tor progress and expansion. They offer you the opportunity of a lito thno. a chaneo to participate la Nevada's cootinuini boom...lliautoi from tho ooavaai onces of hospitMrfo Elko, la the mkbt of correal crowlh and progresa. lovabil and mountain fed bottom streams you'll catch trophy sia German Browns, Rainbow and Brook Trout... largt owners cao catch their dinner within easy driving distance  of the property lines. bunt too big taoN ipacMS Hab Oaar... Quad, Cbukar. and PartrUga ara foaod to abundaooto View Coll Course. No niNi for sbrt bg timts on tbb city owned and maintained pH coorst. but golfing aa N iboold ba anjoyrt. Play a lets roly #-# or N bolaa aurrounded by braatktaking acanary. vited guesb will spend many happy hours boating, fishi and picnicking at nearby Lake Osino. There is no charge to Rancho owners for full righb to the use of this private multiacre lake and park area. opportoaity. But the country's leading corporations are also investing in their Nevada futures. Industrial gianb, who erect planb where increasing land values and population demand them, are building or have secured acreage throughout Nevada. SI#B.Compbtepaymcat schedule b fllB due ail f tlM par aiato. Ite Int erest no Mwying cto gts. LIva. Vtoatba or N etlipii aimpb held for tauMtowal lecurityVHia an Iba Redraw ntoraawaeyheiheeBaMdibReMt Ctotelh Ra toaNbdartrbltoii Miacnb IF  Serial The ship was a ruin, the purser was preaching sedition -- all in all, it looked like a fine trip! I H is uniform was new, too new, all knife-edged creases and the braid and buttons as yet undimmed by time. It sat awkwardly upon his chunky body, and even more awkwardly his big ears protruded from under the cap that was set too squarely upon his head. Beneath the shiny visor his eyes were gray (but not yet hard); and his face, for all its promise of strength, was as yet unlined, had yet to lose its immature softness. He stood at the foot of the ramp by which the had disembarked from the transport that had carried him from the Antarctic Base to Port Woomera, looking across the expanse of ochre sand to the spaceport, to the tall, silver towers that were the ships, interplanetary and interstellar, gleaming in the desert. The westering sun was hot on his back, but he did not notice the discomfort. There were the ships, the real ships -- not obsolescent puddlejumpers like the decrepit cruiser in which he, with the other midshipmen of his class, had made the training cruise to the moons of Saturn. There were the ships, the starships, that span their web of commerce from Earth to the Centaurian planets, to the Cluster Worlds, to the Empire of Waverley, to the Shakespearian Sector and beyond. But theyre only merchantmen, he thought, with a young man's snobbery. He wondered in which one of the vessels he would be taking passage. Merchantman or not, that big ship, the one that stood out from her neighbors like a city skyscraper among village church steeples, seemed to be a likely enough craft. He pulled the folder containing his orders from his inside breast pocket, opened it, read (not for the second time, even) the relevant page... you are to report on board the Interstellar Transport Commission's Delta Orionis... He was not a spaceman yet, in spite of his uniform, but he knew the Commission's system of nomenclature. There was the Alpha class and the Beta class, and there were the Gamma and Delta classes. He grinned wrily. His ship was one of the smaller ones. Well, at least he would not be travelling to Lindisfarne Base in an Epsilon class tramp. Ensign John Grimes, Federation Survey Service, shrugged his broad shoulders and stepped into the ground car waiting to carry him and his baggage from the airport to the spaceport. II G rimes looked at the officer standing just inside Delta Orionis" airlock, a she looked at him. He felt the beginnings of a flush spreading over his face, a prickling of the roots of his close-cropped hair, and felt all the more embarrassed by this public display of his embarrassment. But spaceborn female officers, at this time, were almost as scarce as hens' teeth in the Survey Service; and such few as he had met all looked as though they shared a common, equine ancestry. It was all wrong, thought Grimes. It was unfair that this girl (this attractive girl) should already be a veteran of interstellar voyages while he, for all his uniform and commission, should be embarking upon his first, his very first trip outside the bounds of the solar system. He let his glance fall from her face (but not without reluctance) to the braid on her shoulderboards. Gold on a white facing. So it wasn't too bad. She was only some sort of Paymaster or, to use Merchant Service terminology, only some sort of Purser. She said, her clear, high voice almost serious, "Welcome aboard the Delia #Ryan, Admiral." "Ensign," corrected Grimes stiffly. "Ensign Grimes... "... of the Federation Survey Service," she finished for him. "But you are all potential admirals. There was the faintest of smiles flickering upon her full lips, a barely discernible crinkling at the comers of her eyes. Her brown eyes, thought Grimes. Brown eyes, and what I can see of her hair under that cap seems to be auburn... She glanced at her wrist watch. She told him, her voice now crisp and businesslike, "We lift ship in precisely ten minutes' time. Ensign, "Then I'd better get my gear along to my cabin. Miss...?" "I'll look after that, Mr. Grimes. Meanwhile, Captain Craven sends his compliments and invites you to the control room." "Thank you." Grimes looked past and around the girl, trying to discover for himself the door that gave access to the ship's axial shaft. He was determined not to ask. "It's labelled," she told him with a faint smile. "And the cage is waiting at this level. Just take it up as far as it goes, then walk the rest. Or do you want a pilot?" "I can manage," he replied more coldly than he had intended, adding, thank you." He could see the tally over the door now. It was plain the button that he had to press to open the door, but the girl pressed it for him. He thanked her again -- and this time his coldness was fully intentional -- and stepped into the cage. The door slid shut behind him. The uppermost of the studs on the elevator's control panel He pushed it, then stood there and watched the lights flashing on the panel as he was swiftly lifted to the nose of the ship. hen he was carried no further he got out, found himself on a circular walk surrounding the upper extremity of the axial shaft. On the outside of the shaft itself there was a ladder. After a second's hesitation he climbed it, emerged through a hatch into the control room. It was like the control room of the cruiser in which he had made his training cruise and yet subtly (or not so subtly) unlike it. Everything -- but so had it been aboard the Survey Service vessel -- was functional, but there was an absence of high polish, of polishing for polishing's sake. Instruments gleamed, but it was the dull gleam that comes from long and continual use and matched the dull gleam of the buttons and rank marks on the uniforms of the officers already seated at their stations, the spacemen to whom, after aU, uniform was no more (and no less) than an obligatory working rig. The big man with the four gold bars on each shoulder half turned his head as Grimes came up through the hatch. "Glad to have you aboard, Ensign,' he said perfunctorily. "Grab yourself a seat; there's a spare one alongside the mate's. Sorry there's no time for introductions right now. We're due to get upstairs." "Here!" grunted one of the. officers. Grimes made his way to the vacant acceleration chair, dropped inIF to it, strapped himself in. While he was so doing he heard the captain ask, "All secure, Mr. Kennedy?" "No, sir." "Then why the hell not?" "I'm still waiting for the purser's report, sir." "Are you?" Then, with a longsuffering sigh, "I suppose she's stiU tucking some passenger into her -- or his -- bunk..." "She could still be stowing some passenger's gear, sir," contributed Grimes. "Mine," he added. "Indeed?" The captain's voice was cold and elaborately uninterested. Over the intercom came a female voice. "Purser to Control. All secure below." "And about bloody well time," grumbled the shipmaster. Then, to the officer at the transceiver, "Mr. Digby, kindly obtain clearance." "Obtain clearance, sir," acknowledged that young man brightly. Then, into his microphone, Delta Orionis to Port Control. Request clearance to lift ship. Over." "Port Control to Delta Orionis, You may lift. Bon voyage. Over." "Thank you. Port Control. Over and out'" T hen the ship was throbbing to the rhythmic beat of her Inertial Drive, and Grimes felt that odd sense of buoyancy, of near weightlessness, that persisted until the vessel broke contact with the ground; and then the still gentle acceleration induced the reverse effect. He looked out through the nearest viewport. Already the ochre surface of the desert, streaked by the long, black shadows of ships and spaceport buildings, was far below them, with the vessels and the immobile constructions looking like toys and one or two surface vehicles like scurrying insects. Far to the north, dull-ruddy against the blue of the sky, there was a sandstorm.  that sky were darker, thought Grimes, this would look like Mars, and the mental comparison reminded him that he, too, was a spaceman, that he, too, h been around (although only within the bounds of Sol's planetary system). Even so, he was Survey Service, and these others with him in Control were only Merchant Officers, fetchers and carriers, interstellar coach and truck drivers. But he envied them their quiet competency. Still the ship lifted, and the spaceport below her dwindled, and the land horizon to the north and the now visible sea horizon to the south began to display the beginnings of curvature. Still she lifted. And overhead the sky was dark, and the first bright stars, Sirius and Canopus, Alpha and Beta Centauri, were sparkling there and beckoning as they had beckoned for ages immemorial before the first clumsy rocket clambered heavenward up the ladder of its own fiery exhaust, before the first aeroplane spread its flimsy wings, before the first balloon was lifted by the hot, expanding gases from its airborne furnace... "Mr. Grimes," said the captain suddenly, his voice neither friendly nor unfriendly. "Sir?" n "We lift on I.D. until we're clear of the Van Allens." "I know, sir," said Grimes, then he wished that he could unsay the words. But it was too late. He was conscious of the shipmaster's hostile silence, of the amused contempt of the merchant officers. He shrank into his chair, tried to make himself as inconspicuous as possible. The ship's people talked among themselves in low voices, ignoring him. They allowed themselves a period of relaxation, producing and lighting cigarettes. Nobody offered the ensign one. Sulkily he fumbled for his pipe, filled it, lit it. The chief officer coughed with quite unnecessary vigor. The captain growled, "Put that out, please," and muttered something about stinking out the control room. He himself was puffing at a villainous black cigar. '"jhe ship lifted, and below her the Earth was now a great sphere, three quarters in darkness, the line of the terminator drawn across land masses, cloud fornutions and oceans. City lights twinkled in the gloom like' star clusters, like nebulae. In a quiet voice an officer was calling readings from the radar altimeter. To the throbbing of the Inertial Drive was added the humming, tional gyroscopes as the ship turned about her short axis hunting the target star. The pseudogravity of centrifugal force was at an odd angle to that of acceleration, and the resultant was at an odder angle still. Grimes began to feel sick and was actually thankful that the captain had made him put his pipe out. Alarm bells soimded, and then somebody was saying over the intercom, "Prepare for acceleration. Prepare for acceleration. Listen for the count down." The count down. Part of the long tradition of space travel, a hang-over from the days of the first, unrealiable rockets. Spaceships still used rockets, but only as auxiliaries, as a means of delivering thrust in a hurry, of building up acceleration in a short time. At the word Zerol the Inertial Drive was cut, and, simultaneously, the Reaction Drive flared into violent lift. The giant hand of acceleration bore down heavily upon all in the ship -- then, suddenly, at a curt order from the captain, lifted. Grimes became aware of a thin, high keening, the song of the everprecessing gyroscopes of the Mannschenn Drive. He knew the theory of it -- as what spaceman did not? -- although the mathematics of it were beyond the comprehension of all but a handful of men and women. He knew what was happening, knew that the ship, now that speed had been built up, was, as one of his instructors had put it, going ahead in Space and astern in Time. He felt, as he had been told that he would feel, the uncanny sensation of dea vii, and he watched the outlines of the control room and of every person and instrument in the compartment shift and shimmer, the colors sagging down the spectrum. Ahead, the stars were pulsating spirals of opalescence; astern. Earth and Moon were frighteningly disIP t#rted, uncanny compromises between the sphere and the tesseract. But this was no more than the merest subliminal glimpse; in the twinkling of an eye the Home Planet and her daughter were no more than dust motes whirling down the dark dimensions. The captain lit a fresh cigar. "Mr. Kennedy," he said, "you may set normal Deep Space watches." He turned to Grimes. His full beard almost hid his expression, that of one performing a social duty with no enthusiasm. "Will you join me in my day cabin. Ensign?" "It will be my pleasure, sir," lied Grimes. Ill H andling his big body with easy grace in the Free Fall conditions, the captain led the way from the control room. Grimes followed slowly and clumsily, but with a feeling of great thankfulness that after his training cruise he wias no longer subject to spacesickness. There were drugs, of course, and passengers used them, but a spaceman was expected to be independent of pharmaceutical aids. Even so, the absence of any proper "up" or "down" bothered him more than he cared to admit. The shipmaster slid open the door to his accommodation, motioned to Grimes to enter, murmuring sardonically, "Now you see how the poor live." The so-called poor, thought Grimes, didn't do themselves at all was considerably larger than the day cabin of the Survey Service cruiser's captain had been. True it was also shabbier -- but it was (far more comfortable. Its decoratioDS, whidh would never have been approved aboard a warship, were obviously the private property of the master. There were a full dozen holograms on the bulkhead -- all of them widely differing, but all of them covering the same subject matter. Not that the subject matter was covered. "My harem," grunted the captain. "That one there, the redhead, I met on Caribbea. Quite a stop-over that was. The green-haired wench -- and you can see that it's not a dye job, although I've often wondered why women can't be thorough -- isn't human, of course. But indubitably humanoid and indubitably mammalian. Belongs to Brrrooonooorrrooo, one of the worlds of the Shaara Empire. The local Queen Mother offered to sell Lalia -- that's her name -- to me for a case of Scotch. And I was tempted..." He sighed. "But you Service Survey types aren't the only one who have to live by regulations." Grimes said nothing, tried to hide his interest in the art gallery. "But take a pew. Ensign. Spit on the mat and call the cat a bastard -- this is Liberty Hall." Grimes pulled himself to one of the comfortable chairs, strapped himself in. He said lamely, "I don't see any cat, sir." "A figure of speech," growled the captain, seating himself next to what looked like a drink cabinet. "Well, Mr. Grimes, your Commandant at the Academy, Commodore Bradshaw, is an old friend and shipmate of mine. He said that you were a very profnismg young officer... like a balloon in a comic strip the unspoken words, "God knows why," hung between them... and asked me to keep an eye on you. But I have already gained the impression that there is very little that a mere merchant skipper such as myself will be able to teach you." Grimes looked at the bulky figure seated opposite him, at the radiationdarkened skin of the face above the black, silver-streaked beard, at the fiercely jutting nose, at the faded but bright and intelligent blue eyes, the eyes that were regarding him with more than a hint of amused contempt. He blushed miserably as he recalled his brash, "I know, sir," in this man's own control room. He said, with an effort, 'This is my first Deep Space voyage, sir." "I know." Surprisingly the Captain chuckled and, as though to celebrate this minor scoring over his guest, opened the liquor cabinet. "Pity to have to suck this excellent Manzanila out of a bulb; but that's one of the hardships of Free Fall. Here!" He tossed a little pear-shaped container to Grimes, kept one for himself. "Your health, Ensign!" "And yours, sir." The wine was too dry for Grimes taste, but he made a pretense of enjoying it. He was thankful that he was not asked to have a second drink. Meanwhile, his host had pulled a typewritten sheet from a drawer of has desk, was looking at it. "Let me see, now... You're in cabin #, on D Deck. You'll be able to find your own way down, won't you?" Grimes said that he would and unbuckled his lapstrap. It was obvious that the party was over. "Good. Now, as an officer of the Survey Service you have the freedom of the control room and the engine rooms..." "Thank you, sir." "Just don't abuse the privilege, that's all." After that, thought Grimes, Vm not likely to take advantage of it, let alone abuse it. He let himself float up from the chair, said, "Thank you, sir." For the drink, or for the admonition? What did it matter? "I'll be getting down to my cabin, sir. I've some unpacking to do." "As you please, Mr. Grimes." T he captain, his social duty discharged, had obviously lost interest in his guest. Grimes let himself out of the cabin, made his way, not without difficulty to the door in the axial shaft. He was surprised at the extent to which one not very large drink had interfered with the control of his body in Free Fall. Emerging from the elevator cage on D Deck he stumbled, literally, into the purser. "Let go of me," she ordered, "or I shall holler 'rape!' " That, he thought, is all I need to make this trip a really happy one. She disengaged herself, moved back from him, her slim, sandalled feet, magnetically shod, maintaining contact with the steel decking, but gracefully, with a dancing motion. She laughed. "I take it that you've just come from a home truth session with B.B." "B.B.?" IF "The Bearded Bastard. But don't take it too much to heart. He's that way with all junior officers. The fact that you're Survey Service is only incidental." "Thank you for telling me." "His trouble," she went on, "his real trouble is that he's painfully shy." He's not the only one, thought Grimes, looking at the girl. She seemed even more attractive than on the occasion of their first meeting. She had changed into the shortsand-shirt shipboard uniform, and she was one of the rare women who can wear such a rig without looking lumpy and clumsy. There was no cap now to hide her hair -- smooth, lustrous, with coppery glints, with a straight white parting, bisecting the crown of her finely shaped head. She was well aware of his scrutiny. She said, "You must excuse me. Ensign. I have to look after the other customers. They aren't seasoned spacemen like you." Suddenly bold, he said, "But before you go, what is your name?" She smiled dazzlingly. "You'll find a list of all ship's personnel among the notices posted in your cabin. I'm included." Then she was gone, gliding rapidly around the curve of the alleyway. He looked at the numbers over the cabin doors, outboard from the axial shaft, made a full circuit of that hollow pillar before he realized that this was only the inner ring, that he would have to follow one of the radial alleyways to reach his own accommodation. He finally found No. #, let himself in. His first action was to inspect the framed notices on the bulkhead. Captain . Craven, O.G.S., S.S,R. So the Old Man held a Reserve commission. And the Order of the Golden Star was awarded for something more than good attendance. Mr. P. Kennedy, Chief Officer. He ignored the other name on the list while he searched for the one he wanted. Ah, here it was. Miss Jane Pentecost, Purser. He repeated the name to hirnself, thinking that, despite the old play on words, this Jane was not plain. (But Janes rarely are.) Jane Pentecost... Then, feeling that he should be showing some professional interest, he acquainted himself with the names of the other members of the ship's crew. He was intrigued by the manning scale, amazed that such a large vessel, relatively speaking, could be run by such a small number of people. But this was not a warship; there were no weapons to be manned, there would never be the need to put a landing party ashore on the surface of a hostile planet. The Merchant Service could afford to automate, to employ machinery in lieu of ratings. The Survey Service could not. Virtuously he studied the notices dealing with emergency procedures, ship's routine, recreational facilities and all the rest of it, examined with care the detailed plan of the ship. Attached to this was a card, signed by the master, requesting passengers to refrain, as much as possible, from using the elevator in the axial shaft, going on to say that it was essential, for the good of their physical health, that they miss no opportunity for taJdng exercise. (In a naval vessel thought Grimes, with a slight sneer, that would not be a request -- it would be an order. And, in any case, there would be compulsory calisthenics for all hands.) He studied the plan again and toyed with the idea of visiting the bar before dinner. He decided against it; he was still feeling the effects of the drink that the captain had given him. So, to pass the time, he unpacked slowly and carefully, methodically stowing his effects in the drawers under the bunk. Then, but not without reluctance, he changed from his uniform into his one formal civilian suit. One of the officer-instructors at the Academy had advised this. "Always wear civvies when you're travelling as passenger. If you're in uniform, some old duck's sure to take you for one of the ship's officers and ask you all sorts of technical questions to which you don't know the answers." While he was adjusting his frilled cravat in front of the mirror the sonorous notes of a gong boomed from the intercom. IV '"T'he dining salon was much more JL ornate than the gunroom of that training cruiser had been and more ornate than her wardroom. The essentials were the same, of course, as they are in any sihip: tables and chairs secured to the deck, each seat fitted with its strap so that the comforting pressure of buttocks on padding could give an illusion of gravity. Each table was covered with a gaily colored cloth, but beneath the fabric there was the inevitable stainless steel to which the stainless steel service would be held by its own magnetic fields. But what impressed Grimes was the care that had been taken, the ingenuity that had been exercised to make this compartment look like anything but part of a ship. The great circular pillar of the axial shaft was camouflaged by trelliswork, and the trelliswork itself was almost hidden by the luxuriance of some broad-leaved climbing plant that he could not identify. Smaller pillars were similarly covered, and there was a further efflorescence of living decoration all around the circular outer wall -- the wall that must be the inner skin of the ship. And there were windows in this wall. No, Grimes decided, not windows, but holograms. The glowing, threedimensional pictures presented and maintained the illusion that this was a hall set in the middle of some great park. But on what world? Grimes could not say. Trees, bushes and flowers were unfamiliar, and the color of the sky subtly strange. He looked around him at his fellow diners, at the dozen passengers and the ship's officers, most of whom were already seated. The officers were in neat undress uniform. About half the male passengers were, like himself, formally attired; the others were sloppy in shorts and shirts. But this was the first night out, and some laxity was allowable. The women, however, all seemed to IP have decided to outshine the glowing flowers of the vine that were sudh an essential part of the decor, those other flowers that flamed outside the windows that were not windows. There was the captain, unmistakable with his beard and the shimmering rainbow of ribbons on the left breast of his blouse. There were the passengers at his table: the men inclined to portliness and pomposity, their women sleek and slim and expensive looking. Grimes was relieved to see that there was no vacant place -- and yet, at the same time, rather hurt. He knew that he was only an ensign, a one ringer, and a very new ensign at that -- but, after all, the Survey Service was the Survey Service. He realized that somebody was addressing him. It was a girl, a small, rather chubby blonde. She was in uniform: a white shirt with black should erboards, each bearing a narrow white stripe, and sharply creased, tapered black slacks and black, highly polished shoes. Grimes assumed, correctly, that she was a junior member of the purser's staff. "Mr. Grimes," she said, "will you follow me, plee? You're at Miss Pentecost's table." led him around the axial shaft to a table for four at which the purser with two passengers, a man and a woman, was already seated. Jane Pentecost was attir as was his guide, the severity of her goldtrimmed black and white in pleasing contrast to the pink and blue frills and flounces that clad the other woman, her slenderness in still more pleasing contrast to the other's untidy plumpness. She smiled and said pleasantly, "Be seated. Admiral." "Admiral?" asked the man at her left, unpleasantly incredulous. He had, obviously, been drinking. He was a rough looking customer, in spite of the attempt that he had made to dress for dinner. He was twice the ensign's age, perhaps, although the heavily lined face under the scanty sandy hair made him look older. "Admiral?" He laughed, revealing irregular yellow teeth. "In what? The Space Scouts?" J ane Pentescost firmly took control. She said, "Allow me to introduce Ensign Grimes, of the Survey Service..." "Survey Service... Space Scouts... S.S... What's the difference?" "Plenty!" answered Grimes hotly. The purser ignored the exchange. "Ensign, this is Mrs. Baxter..." "Pleased to meet you. I'm sure," simpered e woman. "And Mr. Baxter." Baxter extended his hand reluctantly, and Grimes took it reluctantly. The amenities observed, he pulled himself into his seat and adjusted his lapstrap. He was facing Jane Pentecost. The man was on his right, the woman on his left. He glanced first at her, then at her husband, wondering how to start and to maintain a conversation. But this was the purser's table, and that was her responsibility. She accepted it. "Now you're seelE ing how the poor live, Admiral," she remarked lightly. Grimes, taking a tentative sip from his bulb of consomme, did not think that the self-styled poor did themselves at all badly and said as much. The girl grinned and told him that (the first night out was too early to draw conclusions. "We're still on sboreside meat and vegetables," she told him, "and you'll not be getting your first taste of our instant table wine until tomorrow. Tonight we wallow in the unwonted luxury of a quite presentable Montrachet. When we start living on the produce of our own, so-called farm, washing it down with our own reconstituted plonk, you'll see the difference." The ensign replied that in his experience it didn't matter if food came from tissue-culture vats or the green fields of Earth -- what was important was the cook. "Wide experience. Admiral?" she asked sweetly. "Not very," he admitted. "But the gunroom cook in my last ship couldn't boil water without burning it." Baxter, noisily enjoying his dinner, said that this preoccupation with food and drink was symptomatic of the decadence of Earth. As he spoke his knife grated unpleasantly on the steel spines that secured his charcoal broiled steak to his plate. Grimes considered inquiring if the man thought that good table manners were also a symptom of decadence, then thought better of it. After all, this was not his table. Instead, he asked, "And where are you from, Mr. Baxter?" "The Rim Worlds, Mr. Grimes. Where we're left to sink or swim, so we've no time for much else than keeping ourselves afloat." He sucked noisily from his biilb of wine. "Things might be a httle easier for us if your precious Survey Service did something about keeping the trade routes open." "That is our job," said Grimes stiffly. "And we do it." "Do you hell! There's not a pirate in the galaxy but can nm rings round you!" "Practically every pirate has been hunted down and destroyed," Grimes told him coldly. " 'Practically every pirate,' the man says! A few small-time bunglers, he means!" "Even the notorious Black Bart," persisted Grimes. "Black Bart!" Baxter, spluttering through his full mouth, gestured with his laden fork at Grimes. "Black Bart! He wasn't much. Once he and that popsy of his split brass rags, he was all washed up. I'm talkin' about the real pirates, the ones whose ships wear national colors instead o' the Jolly Roger, the ones that your precious Survey Service daren't say hoo to. The ones who do the dirty work for the Federation." "Such as?" asked Grimes frigidly. "So now you're playin' the bleedin' innocent. Never heard o' the Duchy o' Waldegren, Mr. Ensign Grimes?" "Of course. Autonomous, but they and the Federation have signed what's called a Pact of Perpetual Amity." "Pretty words, ain't they? Suppose we analyze tbem. Suppose we analyze by (analogy. Dyeir know much about aniiiniMs Mr. Finjrijg n Grimes? Anunials?" Grhnes wals puzzleld. "Well, I suppose I do iknow something. Tve tlcen the usual courses in xeno-biology... "Never mind that. You're a Terry. Let's oonie ourselves to a selection of yer own Terran four-footed friends." "What the hell are you driving at?" flared Grimes, losing his temper. He threw an apologetic glance in Jane Pentecost's direction, saw that she was more amused than shocked. #Tust think about a Pact of Perpetual Amity between an elephant and a tom cat," said Baxter. "A fat an' lazy elephant. A lean, scrawny, vicious tom cat. If the elephant wanted to he could convert that cat into a fur bedside rug just by steppin' on him. But he doesn't want to. He leaves the cat alone, just because the cat is useful to him. He does more than just leave him alone. He an' his feline cobber pull out their pens from wherever they keep 'em an' sign their famous Pact. "In case you haven't worked it out for yourself, the elephant's the Federation, an' the tom cat's the Duchy of Waldegren." "But why?" asked Grimes. "But whyT "Don't they teach you puppies any intersteUar politics? Or are those courses reserved for the top brass? Well, Mr. Grimes, I'll tell you. There's one animal that has the elephant really worried. Believe it or not, he's soared o mice. An' there're quite a few mice inside the FederatioD, mice that make the elephant nervous by their rustlings, an' ecurryings, an' their squeaky demands for full autonomy. That's where the oat comes in. By his free use of his teeth an' claws, by his very presence, he keeps the mice quiet." "And just who are these famous mice, Mr. Baxter?" asked Grimes, innocently. "Don't they teach you nothin' in your bleedin' Academy? Well, I'll tell you. "In our neck o' the woods, the mice are the Rim Worlds, an' the tom cat, as I've already made clear, is the Duchy o' Waldegren. The Duchy gets away with murder -- murder an' piracy. But accordin' to the Duchy, an' accordin' to your big, stupid elephant of a Federation, it's not piracy. It's -- now, lemme see, what fancy words have been used o' late? Contraband Control. Suppression of Espionage. Violation Every time that there's an act of piracy, there's some quote legal unquote excuse for it, an' it's upheld by the Federation's tame legal eagles, an' you Survey Service sissies just sit there on your big, fat backsides an' don't lift a pinkie against your dear, murderous pals, the Waldegrenese. If you ever did, they'd send you screaming back to Base, where some dear old daddy of an Admiral'd spank your little plump bottoms for you." "Please, Mr. Baxter!" admonished Jane Pentecost. IF V "Sorry, Miss. I got sort of carried away. But my young brother was Third Reaction Drive Engineer of the old Bunyip when she went missing. Nothin was ever proved, but the Waldegrenese Navy was boldin' fleet maneuvers in the sector she was passin' through when last heard from. Oh, they're cunnin rascals. They'll never go for one o' these ships, or one o' the Trans-Galactic Clippers; it'll always be some poor little tramp that nobody'll ever miss but the friends an' relatives o' the crew. An,. I suppose, the underwriters, but Llyold's make such a packet out o the ships that don't get lost that they can well afford to shell out now an' again. Come to that, it must suit 'em. As long as there're a few 'overdues' an 'missings' they can keep the premiums up." "But I still can't see how piracy can possibly pay," protested Grimes, staunchly. "O' course it pays. Your friend Black Bart made it pay. An' if you're goin' to all the expense of building an' maintaining a war fleet, it might just as well earn its keep. Even your famous Survey Service might show a profit if you were allowed to pounce on every fat merchantman who came within range o' your guns." "But for the Federation to condone piracy, as you're trying to make out... That's utterly fantastic and out of the question." "If you lived on the Rim, you might think different," snarled Baxter. And Jane Pentecost contributed, "Not piracy. Confrontation." A s soon as the meal was finished the Baxters left rather hastily to make their way to the bar, leaving Grimes and Jane Pentecost to the leisurely enjoyment of their coffee. When the couple was out of earshot, Grimes remarked, "So those are Rim Worlders. They're the first I've met." "They're not, you know," the girl told him. "But they are. Oh, there are one or two in the Survey Service, but I've never run across them. Now I don't particularly want to." "But you did meet one Rim Worlder before you met the Baxters." "The captain?" She laughed. "Don't let him hear you say that -- not unless you want to take a space walk without a suit!" "Then who?" "Who could it be. Admiral? Whom have you actually met, to talk to, so far in this ship? Use your crust." He stared at her incredulously. "Not you?" "Who else?" She laughed again, but with a touch of bitterness. "We aren't all like our late manger companions, you know. Or should know. Even so, you'd count yourself lucky to have Jim Baxter by your side in any real jam. It boils down to this. Some of us have acquired a certain veneer. Some of us haven't. Period." "But how did you...?" He groped for words that would not be offensive to conclude the sentence. "How did I get into this galley? Easily enough. I started my spacefaring career as a not very competent Catering Officer in Jumbuk, one of the Sundowner Line's more ancient and decrepit tramps. I had to pay off sick in Elsinore. Could have been my own cooking that put me in hospital. Anyhow, I was just about recovered when the Commission's Epsilon Serpentis blew in, and she landed her purser with a slightly broken leg. She'd learned the hard way that the Golden Rule -- stop whatever youre doing and secure everything when the acceleration warning sounds -- is meant to be observed. The doctor was luckier. She broke his fall..." Grimes was about to ask what the doctor and the purser had been doing, then was th ankf ul that he had not done so. He was acutely conscious of the crimson blush that burned the skin of his face. "You must realize,' said the girl drily, "that merchant vessels with mixed crews are not monastic institutions. But where was I? Oh, yes. On Elsinore. Persuading the master of the Snaky Eppy that I was a fit and proper person to take over his pursering. I managed to convince him that I was at least proper; I still can't see what my predecessor saw in that lecherous old goat of a quack, although the Second Mate had something..." Grimes felt a sudden twinge of jealousy. "Anyhow, he signed me on, as soon as I agreed to waive repatriation. "It was a long voyage; as you know, the Epsilon Class ships are little better than tramps themselves. It was a long voyage, but I enjoyed it -- seeing all the worlds that I'd read about and heard about and always wanted to visit. The Sundowner Line doesn't venture far afield, just the four Rim Worlds and now and again the Shakespearian Sector and, once in a blue moon, one of the drearier planets of the Empire of Waverley. The Commission's tramps, of course, run everywhere. "Anyhow, we finally berthed at Woomera. The Old Man must have put in a good report about me, because I was called before the Local Superintending Purser and offered a berth, as a junior, in one of the Alpha Class liners. Alpha Centauri, if you must know. She was on the Sol-Sirius service. Nothing very glamorous in the way of ports of call, but she was a fine ship, beautifully kept, efficiently run. A couple of years there knocked most of the sharp corners off me. After that, a spell as Assistant Purser of Beta Geminorum. Atlanta, Caribbea, Carinthia and the Cluster Worlds. And then my first ship as Chief Purser. This one." O ne of Jane's girls brought them fresh bulbs of coffee and ampoules of a sweet, potent liqueur. When she was gone Grimes asked, "What are the Rim Worlds like?" She waited until he had applied the flame of his lighter to the tip of her long, thin cigar, then answered, "Cold. Dark. Lonely. But... They have something. The feeling of being on a frontier. The frontier. The last frontier." "The frontier of the dark..." murmured Grimes. IF "Yes. The frontier of the dark. And the names of our planets. They have something too. A... poetry? Yes, that's the word. Lorn, Ultimo, Faraway and Thule... And there's that night sky of ours, especially at some times of the year. There's the galaxy -- a great, dim-glowing lenticulate nebula -- and the rest is darkness. At other times of the year there's only the darkness, the blackness that's made even more intense by the sparse, faint stars that are the other Rim Suns, by the few, faint luminosities that are the distant island universes that we shall never reach." She shivered almost imperceptibly. "And always there's that sense of being on the very edge of things, of hanging on by our fingernails with the abyss of the eternal night gaping beneath us. The Rim Worlders aren't a spacefaring people; only a very few of us ever get the urge. It's analogous, perhaps, to your Maoris. I spent a leave once in New Zealand and got interested in the history of the country. The Maoris come of seafaring stock. Their ancestors made an epic voyage from their paradisiacal homeland to those rather grim and dreary little islands hanging there, all by themselves, in the cold and stormy southern ocean, lashed by frigid gales sweeping up from the Antarctic. And something -- the isolation? the climate? -- killed the wanderlust that was an essential part of the makeup of their race. You'll find very few Maoris at sea or in space, although there's no dearth of Polynesians from the home archipelagoes aboard the surface ships serving the ports of the Pacific. And there are quite a few, too, in the Commission's ships..." "We have our share in the Survey Service," said Grimes. "But tell me, how do you man your vessels? This Sundowner Line of yours..." "There are always the drifters, the no-hopers, the cast-offs from the Interstellar Transport Commission, and Trans-Galactic Clippers and Waverley Royal Mail and all the rest of them." "And from the Survey Service?" The question lifted her out of her sombre mood. "No," she replied with a smile. "Not yet." "Not ever," said Grimes. VI O nce his initial shyness had worn off, and with it much of his Academy-induced snobbery. Grimes began to enjoy the voyage. After all. Survey Service or no Survey Service, this was a ship and he was a spaceman. He managed to accept the fact that most of the ship's officers, even the most junior of them, were far more experienced spacemen than he was. Than he was now, he often reminded himself. At the back of his mind lurked the smug knowledge that, for all of them, a captaincy was the very limit of promotion, whereas he, one day, would be addressed in all seriousness as Jane Pentecost now addressed him in jest. He was a frequent visitor to the control room but, remembering the Master's admonition, was careful not to get in the way. The watch officers accepted him almost as one of them to the tricky procedure of obtaining a fix with the interstellar drive in operation -- an art, he was told, rather than a science. Having obtained the permission of the chief engineers, he prowled through e vessel's machinery spaces, trying to supplement his theoretical knowledge of reaction, inertial and interstellar drives with something more practical. The first two, of course, were idle and would be until the ship emerged from her warped SpaceTime back into the normal continuum; but there was the Pile, the radio-active heart of the ship, and there was the auxiliary machinery that, in this tiny, manmade planet, did the work that on a natural world is performed by winds, rivers, sunlight and gravity. There was the Mannsohenn Drive Room; and, inside this holy of holies, no man need fear to admit that he was soared by the uncanny complexity of over-precessing gyroscopes. He stared at the tumbling rotors, the gleaming wheels that seemed always on the verge of vanishing into nothingness, that rolled down the dark dimensions, dragging the ship and all aboard her with them. He stared, hypnotized, lost in a vague, disturbing dream in which Past and Present and Future were inextricably mingled. And the chief Interstellar Drive Engineer took him firmly by the arm and led him from the compartment. "Look at that time-twister too long," he growled, "and you'll be meeting yourself coming back!" There was the "faim, the deck of yeastand tissue-culture vats wihich was no more (and no less) than a highly efficient protein factory, and the deck where stood the great, transparent globes in which algae converted the ship's organic waste and sewage back into usable form (processed as nutriment for the yeasts and the tissue-culture and as fertilizer for the hydroponic tanks, the Bio-Chemist was careful to explain), and the deck where luxuriant vegetation spilled over from the trays and almost barricaded the inspection walks, the source of vitamins and of flowers for the saloon tables and, at the same time, the ship's main air-conditioning unit. G rimes said to Jane Pentecost, who had accompanied him on this tour of inspection, "You know, I envy your captain." "From you. Admiral," she scoffed, "that is something. But why?" "How can I put it? You people do the natural way what we do with chemicals and machinery. The captain of a warship is captain of a warship. Period. But your Captain Craven is absolute monarch of a little world." "A warship," she told him, "is supposed to be able to go on functioning as such even with every compartment holed. A warship cannot afford to depend for the survival of her crew upon the survival of hosts of other air-breathing organisms." "Straight from the book," he said. Then, puzzled, "But for a... He hesitated. "But for a woman, or for a purIP ser, or for a mere merdiaiit officer I know too much she finished for him. "But I can read, you know. And when I was in the Sundowner Line, I, as well as all the other officers, was supposed to keep up with all the latest Survey Service publications." "But why?" he asked. "But why not? We'll have a navy of our own, one day. Just stick around. Admiral." "Secession?" he enquired, making it sound like a dirty word. "Once again -- why not?" "It'd never work," he told her. "The history of Earth is full of secessions that did work. So is the history of Interstellar Man. The Empire of Waverley, for example. The Duchy of Waldegren, for another, although that's one that should have come to grief. We should all of us be a great deal happier if it had." "Federation policy..." he began. "Policy, shmolicy! Don't let's be unkind to the Waldegrenese, because as long as they're in being they exercise a restraining influence upon the Empire of Waverley and those bolshy-minded Rim Worlds..." Her pace slackened. Grimes noticed that they were passing through the alleyway in which she and her staff were accommodated. She went on, "But all this talking politics is thirsty work. Come in for a couple of drinks." "Thank you. But, Jane..." (she didn't seem to have noticed the use of her given name) "... I don't think that either of us is qualified to criticize the handling of foreign and colonial affairs." "Spoken like a nice, young, welldrug-up future admiral. Oh, I know, I know. You people are trained to be the musclemen of the Federation. Yours's not to reason why, yours's but to do and die, and all the rest of it. But I'm a Rim Worlder, and out on the Rim you learn to think for yourself." She slid her door open. "Come on in. This is Liberty Hall -- you can spit on the mat and call the cat a bastard." H er accommodation was a suite rather than a mere cabin. It was neither as large nor as well fitted as the captain's, but it was better than the chief officer's quarters, in which Grimes had already been a guest. He looked with interest at the holograms on the bulkhead of the sitting room. They were -- but in an altogether different way -- as eyecatching as Captain Craven's had been. There was one that was almost feeling of utter cold and darkness and loneliness. It was of the night sky on some planet, a range of dimly seen yet sharply serrated peaks bisecting a great, pallidly glowing, lenticulate nebula. "Home, sweet home," murmured the girl, seeing what he was looking at. "The Desolation Mountains on Faraway, with the Galactic Lens visible in the background." "And you feel homesick for that? "Too right I do. Oh, not all the time. I like warmth and comfort as well as the next woman. But . : She laughed. "Don't stand atround gawking -- you make the place look untidy. Pull yourself into a chair and belay the buttocks." He did so, watching her as she busied herself at the liquor cabinet. Suddenly, in these conditions of privacy, he was acutely conscious of the womanliness of her. The rather tight and rather short shorts, as she bent away from him, left very little to the imagination. And her legs, although slender, were full Where they should be full, with the muscles working smoothly under the golden skin. He felt the urge which he sternly suppressed to plant a kiss in the delectable hollow behind each knee. She turned suddenly. "Here! Catch!" He managed to grab the bulb that was hurtling toward his face, but a little of the wine spurted from the nipple and struck him in the right eye. When his vision cleared he saw that she was seated opposite him, was laughing (at or with him?). "At," he suspected. A real demonstration of sympathy would have consisted of tears, not laughter. Her face grew momentarily severe. "Not the mess," she said reprovingly. "But the waste." Grimes examined the bulb. "I didn't waste much. Only an eyeful." She raised her drink in ritual greeting. "Here's mud in your eye," adding, "for a change." In the sudden silence that followed they sat looking at each other. There was a tension, some odd resultant of centrifugal and centripetal forces. They were on the brink of something, and both of them knew it, and there was the compulsion to go forward countered by the urge to go back. She asked tartly, "Have you never seen a woman's legs before?" He shifted his regard to her face, to the eyes that, somehow, were brown no longer, but held the depth and the darkness of the night through which the ship was plunging. She said, "I think you'd better finish your drink and go." He said, "Perhaps you're right." "Too bloody right I'm right." She managed a smile. "I'm not an idler, like some people. I've work to do." "See you at lunch, then. And thank you." "Don't thank me. It was on the house, as the little dog said. Off with you. Admiral." He unbuckled his lapstrap, got out of the chair and made his way to the door. When he was out of her room, he did not go to his own cabin but to the bar, where he joined the Baxters. They, rather to his surprise, greeted him in a friendly manner. Rim Worlders, Grimes decided, had their good points. I t was after lunch when one of the purserettes told him that the captain wished to see him. What have I done now? wondered Grimes, and he answered his own question with the words. Nothing. Unfortunately. Craven's manner, when he admitted Grimes into his dayroom, was severe. "Come in, Ensign. Be seated." "Thank you, sir." "You may smoke if you wish." "Thank you, sir." Grimes filled and lit his pipe, the captain ignited one of his pungent IF cigars, studied the eddying coils of smoke as though they were writing a vitally important message in some strange language. "Er, Mr. Grimes, I believe that you have been seeing a great deal of my purser, Miss Pentecost." "Not a great deal, sir. I'm at her table, of course." "I am told that she has entertained you in her quarters." "Just one bulb of sherry, sir. I had no idea that we were breaking ship's regulations." "You were not. All the same, Mr. Grimes, I have to warn you." "I assure you, sir, that nothing occurred between us." Craven permitted himself a brief, cold smile. "A ship is not a Sunday School outing -- especially a ship under my command. Some masters, I know, do expect their officers to comport themselves like Sunday School pupils, with the captain as the principal; but  expect my senior officers to behave like intelligent and responsible adults. Miss Pentecost is quite capable of looking after herself. It is you that I'm worried about." "There's no need to be worried, sir." The captain laughed. "I'm not worried about your morals, Mr. Grimes. In fact, I have formed the opinion that a roll in the hay would do you far more good than harm. But Miss Pentecost is a dangerous woman. Before lifting ship, very shortly before lifting ship, I received a confidential report concerning her activities. She's an efficient purser, a highly efficient purser, in fact, but she's even more than that. Much more." Again he studied the smoke from his cigar. "Uinfortuinaitely there's no real proof, otherwise she'd not be sailing with us. Had I insisted upon her discharge, I'd have been up against the Interstellar Clerical and Supply Officers' Guild." "Surely not," murmured Grimes. Craven snorted. "You people are lucky. You haven't a mess of Guilds to deal with, each and every one of which is all too ready to rush to the defense of a Guild member, no matter what he or she is supposed to have done. As a Survey Service captain you'U never have to face a suit for wrongful dismissal. You'll never be accused of victimization." "But what has Miss Pentecost done, sir?" asked Grimes. "Nothing -- or too bloody much. You know where she comes from, don't you? The Rim Worlds. The planets of the misfits, the rebels, the noncomformists. There's been talk of secession of late, but even those irresponsible anarchists know bloody well that secession will never succeed unless they build up their own space power. There's the Duchy of Waldegren, which would pounce as soon as the Federation withdrew its protection. And even the Empire of Waverley might be tempted to extend its boundaries. So... "They have a merchant fleet of sorts, these Rim Worlders. The Sundowner Line. I've heard rumors that it's about to be nationalized. But they have no fighting navy." "But what's all this to do with Miss Pentecost, sir?" "If what's more than just hinted at in that confidential report is true -- plenty. She's a recruiting sergeant, no less. Any officer with whom she's shipmates who's disgruntled, on the verge of throwing his hand in -- or on the verge of being emptied out -- she'll turn on the womanly sympathy for and tell him that there'll always be a job waiting out on the Rim, that the Sundowner Line is shortly going to expand, so there'll be quick promotion and all the rest of it." "And what's that to do with me, Captain?" "Are all Survey Service ensigns as innocent as you, Mr. Grimes? Merchant officers the Rim Worlds want, and badly. Naval officers they want, and badly. Naval officers they'll want even worse once the balloon goes up." Grimes permitted himself a superior smile. "It's extremely unlikely, sir, that I shall ever want to leave the Survey Service." "Unlikely perhaps -- but not impossible. So bear in mind what I've told you. I think that you'fl be able to look after yourself now that you know the score." "I think so too," Grimes told him firmly. He thought. The old mans been reading too many spy stories, r iey were dancing. Tables and chairs had been cleared from the ship's saloon and from the big, ornate playmaster throbbed the music of an orchestra so famous that even Grimes had heard of it -- The Singing Drums. They were dancing. IF Some couples shuffled a sedate measure, never losing the contact between their magnetically shod feet and the polished deck. Others -- daring or foolhardy -- cavorted in Null-G, gambolled fantastically but rarely gracefully in Free Fall. They were dancing. Ensign Grimes was trying to dance. It was not the fault of his partner that he was making such a sorry mess of it. She, Jane Pentecost, proved the truth of the oft-made statement that spacemen and spacewomen are expert at this form of exercise. He, John Grimes, was the exception that proves the rule. He was sweating, and his feet felt at least six times their normal size. Only the fact that he was holding Jane, and closely, saved him from absolute misery. There was a pause in the music. As it resumed Jane said, "Let's sit this one out. Admiral." "If you wish to," he replied, trying not to sound too grateful. "Too right I wish to. I don't mind losing a little toenail varnish, but I think we'll call it a day while I still have a full set of toenails." "I'm sorry," he said. "So am I." But the flicker of a smile robbed the words of their sting. She led the way to the bar. It was deserted save for the bored and sulky girl behind the gleaming counter. "All right. Sue," Jane told her. "You can join the revels. The admiral and I will mind the shop." 'Thank you. Miss Pentecost." Sue let herself out from her little cage, vanished gracefully and rapidly in the direction of the salon. Jane took her place. "I like being a barmaid," she told the ensign, taking two frosted bulbs out of the cooler. "I'll sign for these," offered Grimes. "You will not. This comes under the heading of entertaining influential customers." "But I'm not. Influential, I mean." "But you will be." She went on dreamily, "I can see it. I can just see it. The poor old Delia #Ryan, even more decrepit than she is now, and her poor old purser, about to undergo a Fate Worse Than at the hands of bloody pirates from the next galaxy, but three... But all is not lost. There, light-years distant, is big, fat. Grand Admiral Grimes aboard his flagship, busting a gut, to say nothing of his Mannschenn Drive unit, to rush to the rescue of his erstwhile girl friend. 'Dammitall,' I can hear him muttering into his beard. 'Dammitall. That girl used to give me free drinks when I was a snotty nosed ensign. I will repay. Full speed ahead, Gridley, and damn the torpedoes!' " ' Grimes laughed, then asked sharply, "Admiral in which service?" "What do you mean, John?" She eyed him warily. "Tom know what I mean." "So... she murmured. "So... I know that you had another home truth session with the Bearded Bastard. I can guess what it was about." "And is it true?" demanded Grimes. "Am I Olga Popovsky, the beautiful spy? Is that what you mean?" "More or less." "Come off it, John. How die hell cm I be a secret agent for a nonexistent government?" "You can be a secret agent for a subversive organization." "What is this? Is it a hangover from some half-baked and half-understood course in counter-espionage?" "There was a course of sorts," he admitted. "I didn't take much interest in it. At the time." "And now you wish that you had. Poor John." "But it wasn't espionage that the Old Man had against you. He had some sort of story about your acting as a sort of recruiting sergeant, luring officers away from the Commission's ships to that crumby little rabble of star tramps calling itself the Sundowner Line..." S he didn't seem to be listening to him, was giving her attention instead to the music that drifted from the saloon. It was one of the old, twentieth-century melodies that was enjoying a revival. She began to sing in time to it: Good-by, Vll run To seek another sun Where I May find There are hearts more kind than the ones left behind... She smiled sombrely and asked, "Does that answer your questions?" "Don't talk in riddles," he said roughly. "Riddles? Perhaps -- but not very hard ones. That, John, is a sort of song of farewell from a very old comic opera. As I recall it, the bloke singing it was going to shoot through and join the French Foreign Legion. (But there's no French Foreign Legion any more...) We, out on the Rim, have tacked our own words on to it. It's become almost a national anthem to the Rim Runners, as the people who man our ships -- such as they are -- are already calling themselves. "There's no French Foreign Legion any more, but the misfits and the failures have to have somewhere to go. I haven't lured anybody away from this service, but now and again I've shipped with officers who've been on the point of getting out, or being emptied out, and when they've cried into my beer I've given them advice. Of course. I've a certain natural bias in favor of my own home world. If I were Sirian born I'd be singing the praises of the Dog Star Line." "Even so," he persisted, "your conduct seems to have been somewhat suspect." "Has it? And how? To begin with, you are not an officer in this employ. And if you were, I should challenge you to find anything in the Commission's regulations forbidding me to act as I have been doing." "Captain Craven warned me," said Grimes. "Did he, now? That's his privilege. I suppose ithat he thinks that it's also his duty. I suppose he has the idea that I offer you admiral's rank in the Rim Worlds Navy as soon as we secede. If we had our own navy, which we don't, we might #e IF just take you in as ensign, acting, probationary," "Thank you." S he put her elbows on the bar counter, propping her face between her hands, somehow conveying the illusion of gravitational pull, looking up at him. "I'll be frank with you, John. I admit that we do take the no-hopers, the drunks and the drifters into our merchant fleet. I know far better than you what a helluva difference there is between those rustbuckets and the well found, well run ships of the Commission and, come to that, Trans-Galactic Clippers and Waverly Royal Mail. But when we do start some kind of a navy we shall want better material. Much better. We shall want highly competent officers who yet, somehow, will have the Rim World outlook. The first batch, of course, will have to be outsiders, to tide us over until our own training program is well under way." "And I don't qualify?" he asked stiffly. "Frankly, no. I've been watching you. You're too much of a stickler for rules and regulations, especially the more stupid ones. Look at the wiay ybu're dressed now, for example. Evening wear, civilian, junior officers for the use of. No individuality. You might as well be in uniform. Better, in fact. There'd be some touch of brightness." "Go on." "And the way you comport yourself with women. Stiff. Starchy. Correct. And you're all too conscious of the fact that I, even though I'm a mere merchant officer, and clerical branch at that, put up more gold braid than you do. I noticed that especially when we were dancing, I was having to lead all the time." He said defensively, "I'm not' a very good dancer." "You can say that again." She smiled briefly. "So there you have it, John. You can tell the Bearded Bastard, when you see him again, that you're quite safe from my wiles. I've no doubt that you'll go far in your own Service, but you just aren't Rim Worlds material." "I shouldn't have felt all that flattered if you'd said that I was," he told her bluntly; but he knew that he was lying. i'les?" Jane was saying. "Yes, I Mr. Letoumeau?" Grimes realized that she was not looking at him, that she was looking past him and addressing a newcomer. He tqrned around to see who it was. He found -- somehow the name hadn't registered -- that it was the psionic radio officer, a tall, pale, untidily put together young man in a slovenly uniform. He looked scared; but that was his habitual expression, Grimes remembered. They were an odd breed, these trained telepaths with their Rhine Institute diplomas; and they were not popular, but they were the only means whereby ships and shore stations could communicate instantaneously over the long light-years. In the Survey Service they were referred to, slightingly, as Commissioned Tea Cup Readers. In the Survey Service and in the Merchant Service they were referred to as Snoopers. But they were a very necessary evil. "Yes, Mr. Letourneau?" "Where's the old man? He's not in his quarters." "The Master -- " Jane emphasized the title " -- is in the saloon." Then, a little maliciously, "Couldn't you have used your crystal ball?" Letourneau flushed. "You know very well, Miss Pentecost, that we have to take an oath that we will always respect the mental privacy of our shipmates. But I must find him. Quicldy." "Help yourself. He's treading the light fantastic in there." When he was gone she said, "Typical. Just typical. If it were a real emergency, he could get B.B. on the intercom. But no. Not him. He has to parade his distrust of anything electronic and, at the same time, make it quite clear that he's not breaking his precious oath. Tell me, how do you people handle your spaceborne espers?" He grinned. "We've still one big stick that you people haven't. A court martial followed by a firing party. Not that I've ever seen it used." "Hardly, considering that you've only been in space a dog watch." Her face froze suddenly. "Yes, Sue?" It was the girl whom Jane had relived in the bar. "Miss Pentecost, will you report to the captain in Control, please. At once." "What have I done now?" "It's some sort of emergency. Miss Pentecost. The chief officer's up there with him, and he's sent for the doctor and the two chief engineers." "Then I must away, John. Look after the bar again. Sue. Don't let the admiral have too many free drinks." S he moved fast and gracefully, was gone before Grimes could think of any suitable repartee. He said to the girl, "What is happening, Sue?" "I don't know. Ad..." She flushed. "Sorry. Ensign. And, in any case. I'm not supposed to talk to the passengers about it." "But I'm not a real passenger," he said -- and asked himself. Am I a real anything? "No, I suppose you're not, Mr. Grimes. But you're not on duty." "An officer of the Survey Service is always on duty," he told her, with some degree of truth. "Whatever happens on the spacelanes is our concern." It sounded good. "Yes," she agreed hesitantly. "That's what my fianc -- he's a Lieutenant J.G. -- is always telling me." "So what's all the flap about?" "Promise not to tell anybody." "Of course." "Mr. Letourneau came wandering into the saloon. He just stood there staring about, the way he does, then he spotted the captain. He was actually dancing with me at the time." She smiled reminiscently and added, "He's a very good dancer." "He would be. But go on." "He came charging across the dance floor -- Mr. Letourneau, I IF mean. He didn't care whose toes he trod on or who he tripped over. I couldn't help overhearing when he started babbling away to Captain Craven. It's a distress call. From one of our ships -- Epsilon Sextans Her voice dropped to a whisper. "And it's piracy." "Piracy? Impossible." "But, Mr. Grimes, it's what he said." "Psionic radio officers have been known to go 'round the bend before now," Grimes told her, "and to send false alarm calls. And to receive nonexistent ones." "But the Sexy Eppy -- sorry. Epsilon Sextans -- has a cargo that'd be worth pirating. Or so I heard. The first big shipment of Antigeriatridine to Waverley." Antigeiiatridine, the so-called Immortality Serum. Manufactured in limited, but increasing quantities only on Marina (often call by its colonists Submarina) a cold, unpleasantly watery world in orbit about Alpha Crucis. The fishlike creatures from which e drug was obtained bred and flourished only in the seas of their own world. But piracy... But the old legends were full of stories of men who had sold their souls for eternal youth. The telephone behind the bar buzzed" sharply. Sue answered it. She said, "It's for you, Mr. Grimes." Grimes took e instrument. "That you. Ensign?" It was Captain Craven's voice. "Thought I'd find you there. Come up to Control, will you?" It was an order rather than a request. A ll the ship's executive officers were in the Control Room, and the doctor, the purser and the two chiel engineers. As Grimes emerged from the hatch he heard Kennedy, the Mate, say, "Here's the Ensign now." "Good. Then dog down, Mr. Kennedy, so we get some privacy." Craven turned to Grimes. "You're on the active list of the Survey Service, Mister, so I suppose you're entitled to know what's going on. The situation is this. Epsilon Sextans, Marina to Waverly with a slupaaent of Antigeriatridine, has beem pirated." Grimes managed, wilt an effort, to refrain from saying, "I know". Craven went on. Grimes managed, with an effort, to refin from saying, "I know". Craven went on, "Her esper is among the survivors. He says that the pirates were two frigates of the Waldegren Navy. Anyhow, the Interstellar Drive engineers aboard Epsilon Sextans managed to put their box of tricks on random precession, and they got away. But not in one piece." "Not in one piece?" echoed Grimes stupidly. "What the hell do you expect when an unarmed merchantman is fired upon, without warning, by two warships? The esper says that their Control has had it, and all the accommodation spaces. By some miracle the psionic radio officer's shack wasn't holed, and neither was the Mannschenn Drive Room." "But even one missile..." muttered Grimes. "If you want to capture a ship and her cargo more or less intact," snapped Craven, "you don't use missdes. You use the laser. It's an ideal weapon if you aren't fussy about how many people you kill." "Knowing the Waldegrenese as we do," said Jane Pentecost bitterly, "there wouldn't have been any survivors anyhow." "Be quiet!" roared Craven. Grimes wias puzzled by his outburst. It was out of character. True, he could hardly expect a shipmaster to react to the news of a vicious piracy with equanimity; but this shipmaster was an officer of the Reserve, had seen service in warships and had been highly decorated for outstanding bravery in battle. Craven had control of himself again. "The situation is this. There are people still living aboard Epsilon Sextans. Even though all her navigators have been killed, I think that I shall be able to find her in time. Further more, she has a very valuable cargo and, in any case, cannot be written off as a total loss. There is little damage that cannot be repaired by welded patches. I have already sent a message to Head Office requesting a free hand. I have salvage in mind. I see no reason why the ship and her cargo should not be taken on to Waverley." "A prize crew, sir?" "If you care to put it that way. This will mean cutting down the number of officers aboard my own vessel; but I am sure, Mr. Grimes, practical watch-keeping experience. All that's required is your autograph on the ship's Articles of Agreement. "lhank you, sir." "Don't thahk me. I may be thanking you before the job's over and done." He turned to his Chief Officer. "Mr. Kennedy, keep in touch with Mr. Letoumeau and let me know if anything further comes through either from Epsilon Sextans or from Head Office. The rest of you -- keep this to yourselves. No sense in alarming the passengers. I'm sure that the doctor and Miss Pentecost between them can concoct some soothing story to account for this officers' conference." "Captain Craven," said Jane Pentecost. "Well?" "The other man at my table. Mr. Baxter. I knew him out on the Rim. He holds Chief Reaction Drive Engineer's papers." "Don't tell him anything yet. But I'll keep him in mind. Now, Mr. Grimes, will you join me in my day cabin?" DC T he holograms were all gone from the bulkheads of Captain Craven's cabin. To replace them there was just one picture: a woman, not young, but with the facial bon structure that defies age and time. She was in uniform, and on her shoulderboards were the two and a half stripes of Senior Purser. The shipmaster noticed Grimes' interest and said briefly and bitterly, "She was too senior for an Epsilon Class ship; but she cut her leave short, just to oblige, when the regular purser went sick. She should have been back on Earth at the same time as me. IF though. Then we were going to get married... Grimes said nothing. He thought, Too senior for an Epsilon Class ship? Epsilon Sextans, for example? What could he say? "And that," said Craven savagely, "wflj that." "Fm sorry, sir," blurted Grimes, conscious of the inadequacy of his words. Then, foolishly, "But there are survivors, sir." "Don't you think that I haven't got Letourneau and his opposite number to check? And have you ever seen the aftermath of a Deep Space battle. Mister? Have you ever boarded a ship that's been slashed and stabbed to death with laser beams?" He seemed to require no answer, pulled himself into the chair by his desk, strapped himself in. He motioned to Grimes to be seated. Then he pulled out from a drawer a large sheet of paper, which he unfolded. It was a cargo plan. "Current voyage," he grunted. "And we're carrying more to Lindisfarne than one brand new ensign." "Such as, sir?" ventured Grimes. "Naval stores. I don't mind admitting that I'm more than a little rusty insofar as Survey Service procedure is concerned, even though I still hold my Reserve Commission. You're more familiar with fancy abbreviations than I am. Twenty cases "Reserve rations, sir. Canned and deydrated." "Atmospheric regeneration units, complete."  "So is Epsilon Sextans' 'farm' has been killed we shall be able to manage?" "Yes, sir." "Do you think you'd be able to install an Atreg unit?" "Of course, sir. They're very simple, as you know. Just syetic chlorophyl and a UV source. In any case, there are full instructions inside every container." "And this? A double M. Mark XV?" "Anti-Missile Missile." "Anti-Laser Gas Emitter." "The things they do think of. I feel more at home with these "Anti-Vessel Missiles," said Grimes. A slight enthusiasm crept honey." "What does it do?" "I'm sorry, sir. Even though you are a Reserve Officer, I can't tell you." "But they're effective?" "Yes. Very." "And I think you're Gunnery Branch, Mr. Grimes, aren't you?" "I am, sir." He added hastily, "But I'm still quite capable of carrying out a watch officer's duties aboard this vessel should the need arise." "The main thing is you're familiar with naval stores and equipment. When we find and board Epsilon Sextans, I shall be transhipping certain items of cargo." "Rerat and Atreg, sir?" "Yes. And the others." "But, sir. I can't allow it. Not unless I have authority from the Flag Officer Commanding Lindisfame Base. As soon as your Mr. Letoumeau can be spared, I'll get him to try and raise the station there." "I'm afraid that's out of the question, Mr. Grimes. In view of the rather peculiar political situation, I think that the answer would be 'No.' Even if it were 'Yes,' you know as well as I how sluggishly the tide flows through official channels. Furthermore, just in case it has escaped your notice,  am the master." "And I, sir, represent the Survey Service. As the only commissioned officer aboard this vessel  am responsible for Survey Service cargo." "As a Reserve Officer, Mr. Grimes, I rank you." "Only when you have been recalled to Active Service. Sir." C raven said, "I was rather afraid that you'd take this attitude. That's why I decided to get this interview over and done with, just so we all know where we stand." He put aiway the cargo plan, swivelled his chair so that he could reach out to his liquor cabinet. He pulled out two bulbs, tossed one to Grimes. "No toasts. If we drank to law and order we should mean different things. So just drink. And listen. 'To begin with, Epsilon Sextans doesn't know where she is. But Letoumeau is one of the rare telepaths with the direction finding talent, and as soon as he's able to get lined-up we shall alter course to home on the wreck. That's what he's trying to do now. "When we find her, we shall synchronize and board, of course. The first thing will be medical aid to the survivors. Then we patch the ship up. And then we arm her. And then, with a prize crew under myself, we put ourselves on the trajectory for Waverley, hoping that those Waldegrenese frigates come back for another nibble." "They'd never dare, sir." "Wouldn't they? The original piracy they'll try to laugh off by saying that it was by real pirates -- no, that's not quite right, but you know what I mean -- wearing Waldegren colors. The second piracy, they'll make sure that there are no survivors." "But I Still can't see how they can hope to get away with it. It's always been an accepted fact that the main weapon against piracy has been psionic radio." "And so ,it was -- until some genius developed a jamming technique. Epsilon Sextans wasn't able to get any messages out until her crazy random precession pulled her well clear." "And you hope, sir, that they do attack you?" "I do, Mr. Grimes. I had hoped that I should have a good gunnery officer under me, but..." he shrugged his massive shoulders "... I think that I shall be able to manage." "And you hope that you'll have your weapons," persisted Grimes. "I see no reason why I should not. Ensign." "There is #ne very good reason, sir. That is that I, a commissioned IF officer of the Survey Service, am aboard your vessel. I insist tihat you leave the tracking down and destruction of the pirates to the proper authorities. I insist, too, that no Survey Service stores be discharged from this ship without my written authority." F or the first time the hint of a smile relieved the somberness of Craven's face. "And to think that I believed that Jane Pentecost could recruit yoM," he murmured. Then, in a louder voice, "And what if I just go ahead without your written authority. Ensign?" Grimes had the answer ready. "Then, sir, I shall be obliged to order your officers not to obey your unlawful commands. If necessary, I shall call upon the male passengers to assist me in any action that is necessary." Craven's bushy eyebrows went up and stayed up. "Mr. Grimes," he said in a gritty voice, "it is indeed lucky for you that I have first hand experience of the typical Survey Service mentality. Some masters I know would, in these circumstances, send you out on a spacewalk without a suit. But before I take drastic action. I'll give you one more chance to cooperate." His tone softened. "You noticed the portrait I've put up instead of all the temporary pepsies. Every man, no matter how much he plays around, has one woman who woman as far as I was concerned -- as far as I am concerned. I've a chance to bring her murderers under my guns, and, by God, I'm taking that chance, no matter what it means either to my career or to the somewhat odd foreign policy of the Federation. I used to be annoyed by Jane Pentecost's outbursts on that subject -- but now I see that she's right. And she's right, too, when it comes to the Survey Service's reluctance to take action against Waldegren. "So I, Mr. Grimes, am taking action." "Sir, I forbid you... "Tom forbid me? Ensign, you forget yourself. Perhaps this will help you remember." This was a Minetti automatic that had appeared suddenly in the captain's hand. In his hairy fist the little, glittering weapon looked no more than a toy; but Grimes knew his firearms, knew that at the slightest pressure of Craven's finger the needlelike projectiles would stitch him from crown to crotch. "I'm sorry about this, Mr. Grimes." As he spoke. Craven pressed a button set in his desk with his free hand. "I'm sorry about this. But I realize that I was expecting rather too much of you. After all, you have your career to consider. Time was," he went on, "when a naval officer could put his telescope to his blind eye as an excuse for ignoring orders and get away with it. But the politicians had less power in those days. We've come a long way -- and a wrong way -- since Nelson." Grimes heard the door behind him slide open. He didn't bother to look around, not even when hard hands were laid on his shoulders. "Mr. Kennedy," said Craven, "things turned out as I feared that they would. Will you and Mr. Ludovic take the Ensign along to the Detention Cell?" "I'll see you on itrial for piracy. Captain!" flared Grimes. "An interesting legal point, Ensign -- especially since you are being entered in my Official Log as a mutineer." X T he detention cell was not uncomfortable, but it was depressing. It was a padded cell -- passengers in spacecraft have been known to exhibit the more violent symptoms of mania -- which detracted from its already inconsiderable cheerfulness if not from its comfort. However, Grimes was not mad -- not in the medical sense, that is -- and so was considered able to attend to his own bodily needs. The little toilet was open to him, and at regular intervals a bell would sound and a container of food would appear in a hatch recessed into the bulkhead of the living cabin. There was reading matter too, such as it was. The ensign suspected that Jane Pentecost was the donor. It consisted of pamphlets published by some organization calling itself The Rim Worlds Secessionist Party. The almost hysterical calls to arms were bad enough, but the ones consisting mainly of columns of statistics were worse. Economics had never been Grimes' strong point. He slept, he fed at the appointed times, he made a lengthy ritual of keeping himself clean, he tried to read; and, all the time, with only sounds and sensations as clues, he endeavored to maintain a running plot of the ship's maneuvers. Quite early there had been the shutting down of the Mannschenn Drive and the consequent fleeting sensation of temporal disorientation. This had been followed by the acceleration warning -- the cell had an intercom speaker recessed in the padding -- and Grimes, although it seemed rather pointless in bis spongerubber environment, had strapped himself into his couch. He heard the directional gyroscopes start up, felt the effects of centrifugal force as the ship came round to her new heading. Then there was the pseudogravity of acceleration, accompanied by the muffled thunder of the reaction drive. It was obvious, thought the ensign, that Captain Craven was expending his reaction mass in a manner that, in other circumstances, would have been considered reckless. Suddenly, silence and Free Fall, and almost immediately the off-key keening of the Mannschenn Drive. Its note was higher, much higher, than Grimes remembered it; and the queasy feeling of temporal disorientation lasted much longer than it had on previous occasions. And that, for a long time, was all. M eals came and were eaten. Every morning, according to his watch, the prisoner showered and applied depilatory cream to his face. He tried to exercise; but to exercise in a padded cell, with no apIF paratus, in Free Fall, is hard. He tried to read, but the literature available was hardly more interesting to him than a telephone directory would have been. And, even though he never had been gregarious, the lack of anybody to talk to was wearing him down. It was a welcome break from the monotony when he realized that, once again, the ship was maneuvering. This time there was no use of the directional gyroscopes, there were no rocket blasts, but there was a variation of the whine of the Drive as it hunted, hunted, as the temporal precession rate was adjusted by tens of seconds, by seconds, by microseconds. And then it locked. The ship shuddered slightly -- once, twice. Grimes envisaged the firing of the two mooring rockets, one from the bow and one from the stern, each with the powerful electromagnet in its nose, each trailing its fathoms of fine but enormously strong cable. Merchant vessels, he knew, carried this equipment, but unlike naval ships rarely used it. But Craven, as a Reservist, would have seen and have taken part in enough drills. The ship shuddered again heavily. So the rendezvous had been made. So Delta Orionis and Epsilon Sextans, their Drives synchronized, bound together by the rescue ship's cables, were now falling as one unit through the dark immensities. So the rendezvous had been made, and already the survivors of the wreck were being brought aboard the Delia #Ryan, were being helped out of their stinking spacesuits, were blurting out their story to Craven and his officers. Grimes could visualize it all, almost as clearly as though he were actually watching it. He could visualize, too, the engineers swarming over the wreck, the flare of their burning and welding torches, the cannibalizing of nonessential plating from the ship's structure for hull patches. It was all laid down in the Survey Service's Damage Control Manual; and Captain Craven, at least, would know that book as thoroughly as did Grimes. And what of the cargo, the Survey Service stores. Grimes stores? A trembling in the ship's structure, a barely felt vibration, told him that gantries and conveyer belts were being brought into operation. There would be no great handling problems. Lindisfarne was Delta Orionis first port of call, and the Survey Service consignment would be top stowage. But there was nothing that Grimes could do about it -- not a thing. In fact, he was beginning to doubt the legality of the stand he had made against the master. And he was the small frog in this small puddle, while Captain Craven had made it quite clear that he was the big frog. Grimes wished that he was better versed in astronautical law, although a professional lawyer's knowledge would be of no use to him in his present situation. There was nothing that he could do about it. So, with some hazy idea that he might need all his strength both mental and physical, for what was to befall him (but what?) in the near future, he strapped himself into his bunk, did his best to forget his worries in sleep. He was well enough acquainted with the psychiatrists' jargon to know that this was no more than a return to the womb but, before dropping off into a shallow slumber, shrugged. So what? H e jerked into sudden wakefulness. Jane Pentecost was there by his bunk, looking down at him. "Come in," he said. "Don't bother to knock. Now you see how the poor live. This is Liberty Hall; you can spit on the mat and call the cat a bastard." She said, "That's not very funny." "I know it's not. Even the first time that I heard it aboard this blasted ship, I was able to refrain from rolling in the aisles." She said, "There's no need to be so bitchy, John." "Isn't there? Wouldn't you be bitchy if you'd been thrown into this padded cell?" "I suppose I would be. But you asked for it, didn't you?" "If doing my duty -- or trying to do my duty -- is asking for it, I suppose that I did. Well, and has our pirate captain cast off yet, armed to the teeth with the weapons he's stolen?" "No. The weapons are still being mounted. But let's not argue legalities, John. There's not enough time. I... I just wanted to say goodby." "Good-by?" he echoed. "Yes. Somebody has to do the cooking aboard Epsilon Sextans, and I volunteered." "You?" "And why the Hell not?" she flared." Captain Craven has been pushed over to our side of the fence, and it'd be a bloody bad show if we Rim Worlders weren't prepared to stand by him. Baxter's gone across to take over as Reaction Drive Engineer; the only survivor in that department was the Fourth, and he's only a dog watch in space." "And who else?" "Nobody. The Sexy Eppys chief, second and third Interstellar Drive Engineers survived, and they're willing -- anxious, in fact, now that their ship's being armed -- to stay on. And the psionic radio officer came through and is staying on. All of our executive officers volunteered, of course, but the old man turned them down. He said that, after all, he could not hazard the safety of this ship by stripping her of her trained personnel. Especially since we carry passengers." "That's his worry," said Grimes without much sympathy. "But how does he hope to fight his ship if those frigates pounce again?" "He thinks he'll be able to manage -- with remote controls for every weapon brought to his main control panel." "Possible," admitted Grimes, his professional interest stirred. "But not very efficient. In a naval action the captain has his hands full just handling the ship alone, without trying to control her weaponry." "And you'd know, of course." "Yes." "Yes, you've read the books. And Captain Craven commanded a light IF cruiser during that trouble with the Dring, so he knows nothing." "He still hasn't got four hands and two heads." "Oh, let's Stop talking rubbish," she cried. "I probably shan't see you again, John and... and... Oh, Hell, I want to say good-by properly, and I don't want you to think too badly about either the Old Man or... or myself." "So what are we supposed to do about it?" "Damn you. Grimes, you snottynosed, stuck-up space puppy! Look after yourself!" S uddenly she bent down to kiss him. It was intended to be no more than a light brushing of Mps; but Grimes was suddenly aware, with his entire body, of the closeness of her, of the warmth and the scent of her, and almost without volition his arms went about her, drawing her closer still to him. She tried to break away, but it was only a halfhearted effort. He heard her murmur, in an odd, sardonic whisper, "Wottthehell, oh wotthehell... and then, "tou jours gai... It made no sense at the time; but, years later, when he made the acquaintance of the twentieth-century poets, he was to remember and to understand. When it was over, when, still clasped in each others' arms, they drifted in the center of the little cabin, impelled here by some old resultant of forces, their discarded clothing drifting with them, veiling their perspiration-moist bodies, Grimes was reluctant to let her go. Gendy, Jane tried to disengage hersetf. She whispered, "That was a warmer good-by than I intended. But I'm not sorry. No. I'm not sorry..." Then, barely audibly, "It was the first time for you, wasn't it?" "Yes." "Then Fin all the more glad it happened. But this is good-by." Nor "Don't be a bloody fool, John. You can't keep me here." "But I can come with you." She pushed him from her. Somehow he landed back on the bed. Before he could bounce he automatically snapped one of the confining straps about his middle. Somehow -- she was still wearing her sandals, but nothing else -- she finished up standing on the deck, held there by the contact between the magnetic soles and the ferrous fibres in the padding. She put out a long, graceful arm and caught her shirt. She said harshly, "'m getting dressed and out of here. You stay put. Damn you Grimes, for thinking that I was trying to lure you aboard the Sexy Eppy with the body beautiful. I told you before that I am not, repeat not, Olga Popovsky, the beautiful spy. And I'm not a prostitute. There's one thing I wouldn't sell if I were offered the services of the finest gunnery officer (which you aren't) in the whole bloody galaxy in payment!" "You're beautiful when you flare up like that," said Grimes sincerely. "But you're always beautiful." Then,. "Jane, I love you." "Puppy love," she sneered. "And I'm old enough to be your..." A faint smile softened her mouth. "Your maiden aunt." "Let me finish. All right, it's only puppy love -- you say. But it's still love. But..." He was extemporizing, convincingly, he hoped. "But my real reason for wanting to come with you is this. I can appreciate now what Captain Craven lost when Epsilon Sextans was pirated. I can see -- I can feel -- his career to get his revenge. And I think that it's worth it. And I want to help him." She stood there, her shirt half on, eying him suspiciously. "You mean that? You really mean that?" "Yes." "Then you're a bloody liar, Grimes." "No," he said slowly. "No. Not altogether. I want to help the Old Man, and I want to help you. This piracy has convinced me that you Rim Worlders are getting the dirty end of the stick. I may not be the finest gunnery officer in the whole bloody galaxy, but I'm better acquainted with the new stuff than Captain Craven is..." Her grin was openly derisive. "First it's fellow feeling for another spaceman, then it's international politics. What next?" "Where we started. I do love you, Jane. And if there's going to be any shooting, I want to be on hand to do the shooting back on your behalf. I'll admit that... that what's happened has influenced my decision. But you didn't buy me, or bribe me. IF Don't think that. Don't ever think that." There was a note of pleading in his voice. "Be realistic, Jane. With another officer along, especially an officer with recent gunnery training, you stand a damn' sight better chance than you would otherwise." "I... I suppose so. But I still don't like it." "You don't have to. But why look a gift horse in the mouth?" "All right. You win. Get your clothes on and come and see the old man." XI J ane Pentecost led Grimes to the airlock. The ship seemed oddly deserted, and he remarked on this. The girl explained that the passengers had bn requested to remain in their accommodation, and that most of Delta Orionis personnel were employed in work aboard Epsilon Sextans, "So I haven't been the only one to be kept under lock and key," commented Grimes sardonically. "You're the only one," retorted the girl, "who's been compensated for his imprisonment." There was no answer to that, so the ensign remained silent. Saying nothing, he inspected with interest the temporary tunnel that had been rigged between the airlocks of the two ships. So Epsilon Sextans pressure hull had been made good, her atmosphere had been restored. That meant that the work of installing the armament had been completed. He hoped that he would not have to insist upon modifications. The wreck -- although she was a wreck no longer -- bore her scars. The worst damage had been repaired, but holes and slashes that did not impair her structural strength were untouched, and spatters of once molten metal still made crazy patterns on beams and frames, stanchions and bulkheads. And there were the scars made by Craven's engineers -- the raw, bright cicatrices of new welding. Forward they made their way, deck after deck. The elevator in the axial shaft was not yet working, so Grimes had time and opportunity to appreciate the extent of the damage. They passed through the wreckage of the "farm" -- the burst algae tanks, the ruptured vats in which yeast and tissue cultures were black and dead, frostbitten and dehydrated. They brushed through alleyways choked with the brittle fronds of creeping plants killed by the ultimate winter. And then they were passing through the accommodation levels. Bulkheads had been slashed through, destroying the privacy of the cabins that ey had once enclosed, destroying the privacy and the occupants. There were no longer any bodies; for this Grimes was deeply thankful. (He learned later that Craven's first action had been to order and conduct a funeral service.) There were no bodies, but there were still stains. Men and woman die quickly in hard vacuum -- quickly and messily. C aptain Craven was alone in the control room. He was working. rather slowly and clumsily, wiring up an obviously makeshif t panel that was additional to the original one installed before the master's acceleration chair. It was obvious that it was the remote controls for the newly fitted weaponry. Grimes said quietly, "There's no need for that, sir." Craven started, let go of his screwdriver, made a fumbling grab for it as it drifted away from him. He stared at Grimes, then growled, "So it's you, is it?" Then, to Jane, "What the hell do you mean by letting this puppy out of his kennel?" "Captain Craven," she told him quietly, "Mr. Grimes wants to come with us." "What? I warn you, Miss Pentecost, I'm in no mood for silly jokes." "This is not a silly joke. Captain," said Grimes. "I've had time to think things over. I feel, I really feel that you have a far better chance if there's a qualified officer along to handle the gunnery." Craven looked at them, from the girl to Grimes, then back again. He said, "Ensign, didn't I warn you?" "It's not that way at all, sir," Grimes told him, flushing. "In fact. Miss Pentecost has been trying hard to dissuade me." "Ohr "It's true," said Jane. "But he told me that we couldn't afford to look a gift horse in the mouth." "I don't know what's been happening," rasped Craven. "I don't want to know what's been happening between the two of you. This change of mind, this change of heart is rather... sudden. No matter. One volunteer, they say, is worth ten pressed men." He glared coldly at the ensign. "And you volunteer?" "Yes, Captain." "I believe you. I have no choice in the matter. But you realize the consequences?" "I do." "Well, I may be able to do something to clear your yardarm. I've still to make my last entries in the Official Log of Delta Orionis, before I hand it over to Captain Kennedy. And when it comes to such documentation, nobody cares to accuse a shipmaster of being a liar. Not out loud." He paused, thinkin g. "How does this sound. Miss Pentecost? Date, Time, Position, etc., etc, Mr. John Grimes, passenger, holding the rank of ensign in the Federation Survey Service, removed by force from the vessel to Epsilon Sextans, there to supervise the installation and mounting of the armament. Survey Service property, discharged on my orders from No. I hold, also to advise upon the use of same in the subsequent event of an action's being fought. Signed, and witnessed." "Rather long winded, sir. But it seems to cover the ground." "I intend to do more than advise!" flared Grimes. "Pipe down. Or, if you must say it, me sure that there aren't any witnesses around when you say it. Now, when it comes to the original supervision, you see what I'm trying to do. Will it work?" "After a fashion, sir. But it will work much better if the fire control panel is entirely separate from maneuvering control." IF "You don't think that I could handle both at once?" "You could. But not with optimum efficiency. No humanoid could. This set-up of yours might just work if we were Shaara, or any of the other multilimbed arthropods. But even the Shaara, in their warships, don't expect the Queen-Captain to handle her ship and her guns simultaneously." "You're the expert. I just want to be sure that you're prepared to quote, advise, unquote with your little pink paws on the actual keyboard of your battle organ." "That's just the way that I propose to advise." "Good. Fix it up to suit yourself, then. I should be able to let you have a mechanic shortly to give you a hand." "Before we go any further, sir, I'd like to make an inspection of the weapons themselves. Just in case..." "Just in case I've made some fantastic bollix, eh?" Craven was almost cheerful. "Very good. But try to make it snappy. It's time we were on our way." "Yes," said Jane, and it seemed that the Captain's discarded somberness was hanging about her life a cloud. "It's time." Next Month in IF Keith Laumer's newest novel of interstellar adventure pitted against the myriad races of the Galaxyl by Terry Carr And the great conclusion of by A. Bertram Chandler IF ,  Short Story Why bother to live -- when there is so much more to get from illusion? H omer Bemoth had read about dollar magazine campaign can hardly be ignored by anyone save posthe insane and those hermited into outer space. The campaign had been given an additional thrust by the formation of the conservative-based que), whose devout members had long ago given up their ancient fights against fluoridation, pornographic literature, Liberal Episcothe One Planetary System, which had never captured much fervor because it was still on the drawing board. member placing in his hand a pamphlet which had read: "Ihe Fantasque is the most nefarious scheme ever to be devised by the Ugly Mind in order to jelly the spine of resistance and contaminate. infiltrate and corrupt the brains of those who stand for one hundred per cent Hemispherism. It must be outlawed at once, to protect our Hemispherian way of life! Do not listen to the hogwash propaganda of the Ugly Mind behind this deadly conspiracy. Sign the petition now and put your Hemispherism where your mouth is!" Homer had asked, "Who is the Ugly Mind?" The incredulous member had shouted, "Them!" ly neutralized by the liberalbased group formed in retaliation and callFor Freedom Of The Fantasque), owning a charter committee created of two prominent scientists, one Independent of the Hemispheric Senate, three well known sculptors, an actor and an actress known internationally and ten famous writers including the recently celebrated Camubald Jones, author of Would You Invite a Martian to Dinner, Mother? -- a work that had immediately climbed to the top of the best-seller charts, despite the fact that the first exploratory shot to Mars had failed to indicate any intelligent life on that planet. posed outlawing legislation was entirely successful, and sales of the Fantasque expanded despite the near-prohibitive cost of the machine. A caustic columnist had gone to the trouble of checking sales records of Fantasque Incorporated to discover model, or even tried one out, and reported the fact in a syndicated column. The response from both sides was that it was not the point. H omer Bemoth, in his San Francisco Brindlehoffen house constructed by seating a preconstructed aluminum rectangle on a powerrotated foundation, had never allowed himself the indulgence of even considering a Fantasque. Homer had never been a tearing success at much of anything, during his forty-three years; he couldn't afford an Alexis Mobile StreetJumper, let alone the luxury of a # Fantasque. Too, his wife Grace had become a mem"Why, for God's sake?" Homer asked. "You don't know anything about it!" "That doesn't matter!" Grace reliterature. "It's a dirty invention of the Ugly Mind." "Well, who in the hell is that?" "ThemI" Grace had felt the dull sorrow of a marriage gone wrong for a number of years. She'd had long hopes for Homer, in the beginning; but he had simply washed out in his efforts. He'd tried perhaps fifty ways of making a living and had never possessed the sense or conviction of intent to stay with any one of them. Instead, he skipped from one job to another in a frenzied desire to accomplish everything and had, as it turned out, accomplished nothing. Currently Homer was employed as an aide in the engineering department of a firm manufacturing Swirley's Shape Slax. The job was an embarrassment to Grace, who could not bear to tell her friends that her husband spent five days a week running about a room doing inconsequential things for a group of engineers whose total purpose was to improve lines in women's slacks containing fake posteriors. Before moving to San Francisco Grace had been brought up in the severe and austere fashion of North Pole frontier life, where the rigorous moral code was law. Godliness, cleanliness, decency and thrift guided Grace's ship of life. It was fortunate that she knew something about the last, because Homer brought home just enough money to make it from Friday to Friday. Grace had seriously considered divorcing Homer -- an action not in conflict with her upbringing. But the short-lived Church State had left a piece of compromise legislation not yet repealed. A partner seeking divorce automatically waived all material possessions of the marriage. The law had curtailed a ballooning divorce situation; but it had not, Grace considered bitterly, lightened the burden of finding yourself in a barrel with a sour pickle. It was not that they owned much. But she did love their Brindlehoffen house, blue china, Oriental rug and the three-wheeled jet-cart which she drove to the market daily. Those things were enough to keep her in Homer Bemoth's bed; but she was rankling under dissatisfaction, hoping desperately that the legislation might be repealed. Then a letter arrived. G race, who never opened Homer's personal mail, looked at the lawyer's return printed on the flap of the envelope and waited impatiently for Homer's return that evening. When he had settled into his floater chair with a bourbon and water, he finally opened it. "What does it say?" Grace demanded. "Uncle Forbes blinked out." "Died?" "You bet your astro. He laid seventy-five thousand on me!" "Great heavens!" Grace said in shock. Homer blinked, then his round and ruddy face crinkled with a satyrlike grin. "I'll tell you what I'm going to do first." "What's that?" "Tell those asses what they can do with that phoney-fanny job!" As Homer got into his pajamas, Grace lay trying to become convinced of the reality of it. "We're going to have to study investments. Good, solid, sensible investments!" Then she noticed that Homer had turned the rotator of the foundation so that the window he was peering through faced next door where a young wife often failed to draw her bedroom drapes. "Homer!" "That girl's absolutely leafless." "iifomer!" And, when he'd finally gotten into bed, she said, "Did you hear me about the investments?" "Sure." "Do you really think you should quit your job? I mean, after all -- " 'Tomorrow morning I tell them to stick it." She tried to console herself with the thought that once the novelty of the inheritance wore away she could perhaps convince him to find new employment. # was an awfully lot of money, but it was not enough on which simply to give up -- she was certain of that. "Let's celebrate," Homer said hopefully. "Not tonight." "Why not?" "Maybe tomorrow night," When the legal work was completed and the money collected, Homer concentrated on his retirement. He bowled, fished, sang, went to the amusement park, watched movies and television, stood on a downtown corner smiling at girls, nightlubbed, hummed and even tried advanced air skiing by renting the use of a small piloted pull-plane and propulsion skis. Near the end of the first month Grace found him on the back stoop, whittling. IF "Why are you doing that now?" "I'm going to become the best Whittier in town!" The next day, when Homer had forgotten about that, Grace said desperately, "We can't just let the money sit in the bank on that lousy interest. If you're not going to get another job -- " But Homer was shuffling through the mail. "By God, look at this." Grace took a letter and started to read: Dear Mr. Bemoth: We are extraordinarily pleased to inform you that you have been personally selected to try our latest model of the Fantasque. As you undoubtedly know, Fantasque is the greatest pleasure innovation since the invention of the psychotrode. Please understand that we do not extend this invitation to everyone. We say only that you have been placed high on our list as the result of your extraordinary reputation. At your convenienoe, please stop at our studios. Grace looked up, eyes clouded with indignation. "How about that?" Homer said. "The dirty thing!" "You don't know anything about it!" "Fantasque doesn't ak just anybody!" "ITiey heard about your inheritance!" "They heard about my reputationr T iat afternoon Homer walked into the sleek Fantasque studios where a youngish man with shimng black hair and a flashing snaile stepped forward to shake his hand. "Homer Bemoth here." "Not really!" said the salesman, putting a genuine note of disbelief into his voice. Moments later he was escorted into a room where he looked at a silver metal cubicle with a small door. "I thought it would be bigger." "It's quite compact," said the salesman. "Where do you put the dam thing?" "Into the garage, if you've got an outlet there. Just plug in. Simple as that. Give it a whirl?" "As long as I'm here." The salesman opened the door to the interior which contained a control panel and a leather-cushioned chair upon which rested a white helmet sprouting wires. "The helmet contains the psychotrode connections. That is the heart of the accomplishment -- they tune right into your imagination, you see? Gouple you up with the computer. That's what makes it absolutely real." "No screens?" "No, sir. It goes on inside your brain, because of those sweet little psychotrodes. You are there r "Won't it drive you nuts?" "Fantasque has been tested by over a thousand persons, in its home laboratory. It is absolutely one hundred per cent safe for any man's brain -- especially, I might add, one owned by a person of your caliber." "I'll be damned." "Behind the control panel is the computer. Into it has been fed every sort of piece of information concerning any given target selected. All you do is start with Indicator I and turn it to the first letter of the name of your target. You work over until you've spelled it out. Say you wish to travel to New York City. Bang. You're looking at the city. If you wish to become more specific, keep on spelling -- Manhattan, or, if you will, Empire State Building. You'll be there." "Hard to believe." "Those are just general instructions, for the beginner. But if you wish to go into a specific store, say, then you get into more experience handling. You take hold of Knob X and Knob A and fly, as it were, with the Fantasque. It takes some concentrating, letting the imagination go to work. But those controls, coupled rigjht where you want to go. Climb in. Put on the helmet. Take a shot at it." The salesman watched Homer make his way inside to sit down on the chair and place the helmet on his head. "What'll it be, Mr. Bemoth?" "The new, expanded Disneyland! I've never been there." "Spell it out!" H omer set the indicators. Then he sat immobile. Suddenly his bands jumped forward to grasp and X and A knobs. He let out a yelp and looked around, wide-eyed. "By God!" "There, you see, Mr. Bemoth?" "You bet! A kid was licking a cone right by my ear! So I saw this place I wanted to go into. I grabbed the knobs. But I landed in a river staring a damned crocodile down the throat!" "You have to take it easy at first, Mr. Bemoth. Don't try to do everything at once. It's like an electric organ you've never played before. You want to try the simple melodies with one hand, then the pedal notes, then the second hand, then the drawbars, the vibrator tabs, the whole business. But it takes time and practice. Where next?" "Bismark, North Dakota. My old home town!" "See that lighted red button? Press it. That cancels out your previous target." Homer pressed; the light went out. "Spell, Mr. Bemoth." Homer rapidly punched letters. Then he sat rigidly. Suddenly his hands jumped again. A forefinger jabbed at the indicators. He yelled out happily. The salesman was wagging his head disapprovingly as Homer turned around, perspiring and joyful. "Now you see, Mr. Bemoth -- " "I was in Bismark! Then I punched out Little Rock. There was Bismark in back. Little Rock in front -- !" "But it's much better to stay in one place at one time. We've done extensive experimenting on that. Remember you're using psychotrodes. You're dealing with dimensional processes as well. While we guarantee the absolute safety of the machine IF when properly used, we don't advise anyone to tax his brain too greatly. Let's stay on one target at a time, shall we, Mr. Bemoth?" "Right!" "Where next?" "Saskatoon!" After a dozen flights, Homer pitched out of the machine excitedly. "By God!" he whooped. "That son of a gun!" The salesman led Homer to a table where he handed him a leatherbound book. "The official manual. Instructions for every conceivable performance the machine is capable of handling. I'll guarantee they're limitless." Homer opened the book. "Illustrated there, for example, are your color plungers. As you tested it, the machine was simply set on Color-General. With these, you can shoot for perfection. Here are your dimension sticks. Your level indicators. Your temperature guides. Your time bars." "Tm bars?" "As I said, Mr. Bemoth, no limit. Once you learn to handle these, you can shoot back and look in, for instance, on the Boston Tea Party. The entire affair has been fed into the computer. You'll be there December #, #, when the colonists dumped tea into the harbor." The saleman talked on, edging an order contract toward Homer, who said, "Probably isn't a real point, understand. But I was just curious." "Certainly." "How much has been shot into that computer?" "The world, Mr. Bemoth." "Mind you, I wouldn't think of wanting to do it myself. But say some dirty-minded old man came in and bought one of those machines and tuned himself in on undressing time for, oh, Marie Antoinette, right there in the boudoir." The salesman's face blanched. "Mr. Bemoth!" "I didn't say Vd want to do it. But I was just thinking -- " "It's that damnable organization, You've read their propaganda, haven't you?" "They slipped me a pamphlet or two, yes. But -- " "FUthy lies! That computer is as clean as the purest snow! Not one single item remotely associated with the prurient has ever been fed into one of our computers! The Fantasque represents the cleanest entertainment since checkers! Yet," the salesman went on in a breaking ple -- " "I'm sorry I brought it up," Homer said. "I'll get hold of myself in a moment." The salesman got out a handkerchief and blew his nose. "Do you wish to sign the order, Mr. Bemoth? We have excellent financing terms, of course." "Cash, if you don't mind." W hen Homer told his wife she swept into violent hysterics. "Twenty thousand dollars!" "Plus tax." "For that dirty thing!" "Lies. That machine's as clean as (the piirest snow!" "The neighbors'll see it delivered!' "They deliver in a plain brown box!" When it had been, Grace would not go into the garage and look at it. Instead she howled, screamed and poured forth an incredible amount of tears. Homer closed himself away inside the machine. After that, he spent most of his waking time there, traveling from Tripoli to Odessa to Trinidad to Kalgoorlie to Dublin; he joined Hannibal crossing the Alps, Stephen urging the Children's Crusade, Charlennagne invading Italy, Columbus sighting San Salvador Island, Michelangelo carving Pieta. He explained the machine's operation precisely to Grace. But she insisted that it was an evil instrument, creating an unreal world only to titillate the senses; she wouldn't go near it. Homer gave up on her and continued his travels, tearing wildly across continents, plunging back and forth in time. He appeared outside only to sleep, eat and read the newspapers in order to find ideas for fresh journeys. It was during a newspaper interval that Grace stared at him with reddened eyes and said, "You love that dirty thing more than me!" Homer listened vaguely, deciding that he would finally blast off on his first space shot -- he'd willed himself to save that one. Grace's face flushed. "What's happened to our sex life?" Homer looked up in astonishment. "#ejc life!" When he returned to his newspaper, he noticed a small classified ad, feeling his heart quicken its beat. A week later, Grace's sense of cleanliness forced her to the garage to sweep. She kept her eyes away from the silver metal cubicle as she did. He was in there, as he always was; and, she thought, he could stay in there the rest of his existence. She shifted some empty cartons. Then she saw another which she could not remember. It was empty except for a printed sheet of paper. She drew that out and read: "Welcome to your Jing-Jang Adapter! Follow the simple instructions to install this delicious addition Way You Like It: Cleopatra Up The Nile, Pocahontas Under The Waterfall, Lady Godiva On Her... " Grace read the other seven titles and threw the paper down in fury. Quivering, she strode to the Fantasque and yanked the door open. She gasped, staring inside. Homer's clothing and shoes lay in a loose pile around the chair upon which rested the white helmet. "Homer!" she said sharply, then realized the foolishness of that; he simply was not there. She remembered that only an hour ago he'd walked aloofly past her in the kitchen, and come down. She checked the large garage doors; they were locked from the inside. So were the windows, as well as another small door. There was no way that he could have gotten out. IF Pulse beating, she considered it. She recalled all that Homer had told her about the machine. Grace was not an adventurer in abstract thinking, but she wasn't stupid either. She hurried to the telephone, and, in a few minutes, was connected to the Fantasque studios. She said to the salesman, "I was wondering something about your machine." "Of course." "Suppose somebody got going with it." "In what way?" "Say he got excited and tried to be in several places at the same time. Maybe ten different places, at the same time." "That would not be recommended, madam!" "Could he just disappear? Split up in all directions? Fade out in other dimensions? So there isn't anything left but his clothes?" T here was a startled pause, then the man said, "This isn't someit?" "I was just wondering if you'd ever had anything happen like that?" "Madam, that is utterly absurd! Our machine has been thoroughly tested." "But you couldn't test mice, or even monkeys, with that dimensional business and the psycho-thingajigs, could you? I mean, animals don't have brains like humans. And every human brain is different." "There is the psychological to consider, of course. And dimension is certainly involved. Yet the postulation is ridiculous. But -- if anything might have gone wrong, pledse tell us who you are. We'll immediately send our best men over to -- " "What would you do if had happened? Pull the plug?" "My God, no! That would break all connections! Leave the poor devil in limbo -- maybe a ten-way limbo! I mean... Madam, if you'll just -- !" She hung up and began humming as she returned to the garage. She was thinking that she would wait a few days, then report him missing. The divorce legislation also covered desertion; in six months all of their possessions would be wholly hers. Then she could sell that machine and really get started with her investments. She opened the door of the Fantasque and removed his shoes and clothing from it. Then she pulled the plug. into it. but Now... with To get your complete lOne WhY G Dipt ##I Yucca Ut, Wellywood #, Calil IF  Novelette" Retief didn't mind the eonsdead heroes of this world -- but they wouldn't stay dead! A n evening breeze bearing the fragrance of ten-thousand year old Heo trees in bloom moved across the Embassy dining terrace. In the distance pipes sounded softly, picking out a haunting melody, like fairy feet retracing a forgotten path through an enchanted forest. The setting sun, vast and smoky red, cast crimson shadows along the leafshaded streets below. "A pity all this is dying." First Secretary Magnan of the Terran Mission to Sulinore waved a hand toward the fragile, crumbling towers silhouetted against the dusk. "In tion and a reputation for immortality, the Sulinorians seem impotent to stem the population decline. I suppose in a century or less they'll all be gone." "With ninety-nine per cent of the planetary surface devoted to cemeteries, historical shrines and monuments to the past, there's not much room for the living," Second Secretary Relief commented. "And you can tie up a lot of minerals in a planet-wide graveyard." "I suppose you're referring to their belief that the world's supply of Divine Effluvium is exhausted," Magnan sniffed. "Mere folklore, of course. Still, one might almost be tempted to look into the matter of depletion of essential elements -- except that Corps policy forbids poking into local religious doctrine. And in any event, they won't permit any deep-mining operations which might disturb the hallowed dead -- or the sleeping heroes, as they prefer to put it." Magnan cocked an eye at the small humanoid waiter standing at a discreet distance, apparently lost in thought. "One can't help thinking that the modern Sulinorian is a far cry from his legendary ancestors," he said beliind his hand. "Just compare these civilized little chaps with those ghastly statues you see everywhere." T he local turned, approached the table, a polite expression on his elfin features. "You wished something, sir?" "Why, ah, tell me." Magnan cleared his throat. "How does the Sulinorian in the street feel about all this? modest rock-mining operation set up here to unlock some of those scarce elements that are tied up in the planetary crust?" "Modest, my lord? The figure I day per unit, and Great Tussore knows how many units." He looked toward the ruin-crowned skyline. Rather the easy erosion of eons than eaten by industry's engines insatiable he quoted. "At least that's what the poet Eulindore said a couple of millenia ago. Me, I wouldn't know." "But what about importation?' Magnan persisted. "Why, your Administrative Council turned thumt: miles of useful minerals and establish raw material dumps that all could draw on freely!" "I guess we'd rather look at the landscape the way it is, sir," the Sulinorian said. "And besides, rooting in a dump isn't our style. You know, a race of heroes and all that." He flicked an imaginary crumb from the table. "How about another flagon of ancient wine, my lords? Laid down by Yodross in the year #. That would be abooit # B.C., old Terry reckoning." "I think not -- " Magnan broke off as the table-side P.A. unit pinged and lit up. The plump features of Ambassador Shindlesweet snapped into mirror-bright focus on the oneway screen. "Ah, gentlemen," the portly diplomat beamed. "It's my pleasure to inform the staff that the Blug delegation has, after all, been prevailed upon to be present at the Peace Conference here on Sulinore." "What, those bloodthirsty little killers?" Magnan gasped. "With their armor and their opaque atmosphere helmets and their sneaky ways? Why, everybody knows they're the Groaci's proteges, and responsible for all the fighting!" "At least that's a dozen or so Blugs that won't be off plundering somewhere -- as long as the conference is on anyway," Retief pointed out... a gesture which reflects their sincere desire to see peace restored to the Sector," Shindlesweet was rumbling on. "And with all due modesty, I think I may say -- " A pale visage sporting five stalked eyes crowded onto the screen, thrusting the Terrestrial ambassador aside. "As you're perhaps aware," the Groaci ambassador whispered in his faint voice, "it was through my efforts as co-sponsor of the present talks that this happy eventuality was brought about. And -- " "Look here, Mr. Ambassador," Shindlesweet muttered from the side of his mouth, turning a glassy smile to the camera. "I was on the air first!" "Hogging the limelight, as usual, George," the Groaci hissed. "An unfortunate habit of yours. But as I was saying," he addressed the screen, "I was able, through deft handling of a number of sensitive issues -- " "Now just a minute, Shith!" The Terran forced his way back to center screen. "When I agreed to lend the weight of Terran participation to your confounded gabfest, I -- " "Ha! You begged me on bended anterior ginglymus joint to be permitted to crowd in!" "Why, you little -- " "Ah-ah," Ambassador Shith admonished. "No racial epithets, George. Open mike, remember?" Retief and Magnan had a last quick glimpse of Shindlesweet's rage-flushed features as he reached to blank the screen. "Well, the peace talks are off to a rousing start," Retief said cheerfully. Magnan shook his head, looking grave. "I foresee no good to come of this gathering." He rose and looked at his watch. "We've time for a constitutional before dinner, Retief. And if we're to dine cheek by mandible with our Groaci colleagues at tonight's banquet, I for one have need of a hearty appetite." II A block from the renovated palace housing the Terran Chancery, Magnan plucked at Relief's arm. "Look there; another party of Groaci Peacekeepers, in full armor. You'd think they were expecting full scale rioting to break out at any moment." A block away, a squad of constabulary, in grotesque flaring helmets and black hip-cloaks, side-arms at knobby hifs, minced briskly along the empty avenue. "Shith was quite insistent that the Groaci be assigned responsibility for the security arrangements for the Conference," Magnan muttered. "They have the only guns on the planet." "For alleged police, those fellows have a suspicious look of regular infantry about them," Retief said. IP "Good lord, you don't imagine they're planning anything foolish?" Magnan gasped. "Everybody knows the Groaci secretly covet Sulinore. They've even tried to have it officially declared a deserted world, open to colonization." "It's a little hard to see how they could swing it, with a full squadron off-planet," Retief said. "You're right. We're imagining things." Magnan shook his head briskly. "A few dozen blasters can't take over a world. Still, I'd as soon avoid these bravos. In their arrogance they might attempt some sort of harassment." He angled across toward the entrance to a side street. "That's the route to the Forbidden City, off-limits to foreigners," Retief said. "How badly do you want to miss the fuzz?" "Nht that badly." Magnan shuddered, veered in the opposite direction. "If even half the stories are true, not even our gnawed bones would ever be found." F ifteen minutes later they were in a narrow, crooked street where age-weathered carved griffins, satyrs and nymphs adorned the steep facades of the deserted buildings lining the way. "This isn't the most cheerful route for a stroll," Magnan commented uneasily. "At least not after sundown." He cocked his head. "One almost imagines one can hear stealthy footsteps behind one." "Not so stealthy at that," Retief said. "They've been getting pretty careless the last five minutes, as if they didn't care whether we heard them or not." "You mean someone's really following us?" Magnan turned to stare back along the shadowy late-evening street. "Two someones," Retief corrected. "Non-humans, I'd say, weighing in at under a hundred pounds, and wearing padded shoes." "That could mean anything! There are forty-six non-human spedes onworld this week for the conference, and I can think of at least ten of them that wouldn't be above assaulting a pair of peaceful Terran diplomats for their own nefarious ends." "Or for the iridium in their teeth," Retief amplified. "I think I recognize the street ahead," Magnan muttered. "Coriale's Comestible Counter is just around the corner. I was there last week -- in daylight -- making some arrangements for the Reception. We can nip inside and 'phone the Embassy for transportation back..." He broke off as they came in view of a high, narrow shop-front displaying the cranium and crossed thighbones, the Sulinorian symbols of a caterer's establishment. Beneath the deeply incised device, the windows were dark, the massive stonewood door shut tight. "It's closed!" Magnan put his nose against the glass "But there's someone inside. I head a sound." Retief tried the heavily patinaed bronze door latch, cast in the form of fanged jaws clenched on a leg. "Perfiaps -- great heavens, Retief! What are you doing?" Magnan blurted as Retief gripped the knob in both hands and twisted hard. There was a sharp tinkle of breaking metal. "Retief, stop!" Magnan gasped. "You can't -- " "I think it might be a good idea to get in off the street -- now!" Retief thrust his protesting senior through into the gloomy interior, whirled to ease the door silently shut. "We found the door unlocked," he said briskly, looking around the room. "And stepped inside to see if everything was okay." Magnan peered from the window, made a choking sound. "Two Sulinorians in artisan's headdress just came around the corner! They'll find us here!" . "Let's check the back room." Retief led the way past tables heaped with displays of Sulinorian pastries, stuffed fowls and candied nutmeats, thrust aside a curtain. The dim shapes of stacked cartons bulked in the darkness. He sniffed the air, took a tiny handlight from his pocket, played the pencil-thin beam across the floor. "What's that?" Magnan hissed, pointing. From behind a wall locker, a pair of narrow high-arched, longtoed feet protruded. Retief went across, flashed the light on a small, crumpled body. The bright robes were bedraggled and torn. A wound in the narrow chest oozed ochre blood. A Sulinorian," Magnan breathed. "He's been shot!" His lips moved in a faint whisper. Retief knelt beside him. "Who did it?" he asked urgently. "Why?" "He was not... what he seemed." Retief caught the whispered words. Then the luminous eyes closed; the last tinge of vital color drained from the small face, leaving it an unattractive shade of waxy green. "It looks like Coriale, the caterer," Magnan groaned. "How terrible!" "Listen!" Retief raised a hand. From the far corner of the storeroom a faint rustle sounded. He motioned Magnan to the left, started around the right side of the stacked boxes. There was a hurried scuttling sound. "Why -- there you are, Coriale," Magnan's voice squeaked. "We, er, just stepped in to increase our order. We'll have twelve gross of the bean and kidney pies and six dozen jellied bramble-hens -- under glass, of course..." Magnan backed into view, keeping himself between the small local and the body in the comer. The Sulinorian pulled free of Magnan's grip on his elbow. His bright eyes flicked around the room. "But if you're busy," Magnan went on hastily, "we'll just toddle along now..." "Ummm. You are Terrestrials, isn't it?" the alien piped in a piercingly high voice. "I'm, er, why, ah..." Magnan swallowed audibly. "I was here just the other day, Mr. Coriale. Don't you remember me?" "Yes. Quite so, I recalled now." The Sulinorian moved toward the door. "Six dozen jellied kidneybeans and glass hens under mud, I'll make notes of it. And now, you wish IF :# to leave, are you? To be sure. Goodby quickly, please." Magnan reached the door ahead of the local, fumbled it open. "Well, it was jolly seeing you, Coriale. By, now... He tugged at Reliefs sleeve. "Come along!" he hissed. "We'ie in a frightful rush, remember?" "fm not sure Mr. Coriale got the order just right." Retief eased Magnan aside, glanced out the door. The dark street was empty. Pale flames burning in blue glass globes high on the walls cast wavering shadows along the ancient cobbles. "It doesn't matter! I'm sure he can cope." Magnan's voice faltered as his eye fell on the Sulinorian, from whose nostrils brown smoke was filtering. "Say, isn't that brown smoke filtering from your nostrils?" he blinked. "I didn't know you Sulinorians smoked." Coriale edged sideways, eyeing the door. "A new vice, acquiring this week only. And now, reluctance, farewell." Magnan frowned. "Curious," he said. "A few days ago you spoke perfect Galactic." "Duck!" Retief snapped and dived past Magnan as the undersized alien made a lightning-fast motion. S omething flashed in his hand; a plate of hors d'oeuvres beside Magnan exploded in a shower of antipasto. With a yelp, Magnan leaped sideways, collided with the alien as the latter bounded aside from Retief's charge. For a moment, there was a wild tangle of threshing limbs. Then Magnan staggered back, sat down hard. His head wobbled. He fell sideways and lay still. The Sulinorian had whirled, bringing the gun up -- Retief swept a pie from a table, slammed it full into the pinched faced. The alien shrieked; the gun barked sharply, twice. One slug ripped the gilt epaulet from the shoulder of Retief's wine-red midevening semi-official blazer. The second thunk !od into a pewter tureen; thick purple soup spurted from paired holes. Then Retief was on the gunner. He twisted the alien's gunhand behind him, reached to seize his quarry's other arm... and felt the room expand suddenly to three times its former size. He snorted hard, held his breath, threw the alien across the room. His legs felt like piano wire. He grabbed at a table for support, sent it crashing over on its side. Magnan sat up, spluttering, as a cascade of icy green punch sluiced over him. "Yes, yes. I'm coming. Mother," he gasped. To Retief, Magnan's voice seemed to be filtered through an echo chamber. As in a dream, he saw the other totter to his feet. "Wha..." Magnan gobbled. "What happened?" His eyes focused on the room, took in the smashed crockery, the overturned furnishings, the spilled viands -- and the crumpled figure against the wall. "Retief -- he isn't...?" Retief shook his head to clear it. He went across to the fallen alien. IP The creature lay on his back, eyes wide open, glassy. A great shard of broken punch-bowl protruded from his chest. His dead face was a livid purple. "Coriale!" Magnan choked. "Dead again!" "We'd better get out fast," Retief said. "And sort out the Coriales in the morning." "By all means!" Magnan whirled to the door, pulled it wide -- and backed into the room, prodded by the gleaming barrel of a crater gun in the hands of a spindle-legged Groaci in the uniform of a Peacekeeper. "To make no move, vile miscreants," the helmeted and greaved Shore Patroller hissed in his native tongue as his five stalked eyes scanned the shambles. "To have you red-handed this time. Soft Ones." "You're making a frightful mistake," Magnan choked as half a dozen more Groaci pushed into the shop, all with levelled weapons. "We didn't -- that is, I didn't -- I mean, Retief only -- " "Ah, Mr. Magnan, is it not?" the Patrol captain whispered in his faint voice. "The acceptance of your complete innocence, of course, dear sir. Provided only the testimony against the true criminal!" "True criminal?" Magnan stuttered. "You mean Retief? But -- " "What other?" the Groaci inquired in a reasonable tone. "But... but..." "To have no need to make a statement now," the captain soothed. "To come along quietly and to leave us to deal with the killer." He motioned sharply and his subordinates closed in, hustled the protesting Magnan away. Then the Groaci turned to Retief. "To remember me, perhaps, Retief? Shluh by name, formerly of the Groacian Planetary Police, once deeply wronged by you. Tonight, in the cells of a Groaci prison, to even at last the bitter score." Ill T he jeweled eye-shields of Capglints from the dazzling white Interrogation lights rigged at the center of the dusty room. "Once more, my dear Retief," he whispered in accent-free Terran. "What was your motive for your atrocious crimes against the peace and order of Groac? Or Sulinore, if you prefer. Was it perhaps your plan to introduce subtle impurities into the provender to be supplied to the delegates? Or did your schemes run deeper? Was it you full intent to secrete illegal monitoring devices in the serving vessels -- devices of the kind which I will testify were found on your person when you were searched?" "A couple of years pounding a beat have done wonders for you, Schluh," Retief said conversationally. "You've lost that fat-behind-theears look. Unfortunately, you still sound about the same." "And you, unlucky Terry, still indulge your penchant for flippancy! It will be amusing to watch the evolution of your japes into pleas for mercy, as our acquaintance ripens." "You Groad must be planning something a Httle more elaborate than usual," Retief mused aloud. "Conning Ambassador Shindlesweet phony peace talks took a lot of time and groundwork -- and you lads don't waste credits on empty gestures." "You imply that our motives are less than selfless?" Shluh inquired in a careless tone. "Ah, well, what matter your thoughts, Soft One? You may share them freely with your executioner." "Let's look at it analytically," Retief went on. "What have you accomplished with all this effort, other than getting representatives of every nated sector of the Arm together in one room? But maybe that's enough, eh, Shluh? If some unfortunate incident occurred and wiped out the lot oi them, whoever was responsible would find himself in a most unenviable position, public-relationswise. And I have a feeling it wouldn't be you Groaci who'd be left holding the other sponsor of the gathering." "Enough, presumptuous Terry!" an agitated manner. "In your panic, you rant nonsense!" Retief continued, "Groac would have to step in to straighten out the confusion; and they just might find it necessary to call on someone like their friends the Blugs to help keep the peace during the emergency. And maybe, before things got back to normal, the few remaining Sulinorians might just sort of go into a decline and die off, leaving an empty world for an enterprising power like Groac to latch onto." # T That fever fancies are these?"  V Shluh hissed. "It is known to all that you Terries, ever suspicious of the pure motives of others, have vices at the port and throughout the Conference rooms, thus making impossible the introduction of any weapons other than the handful alloted to my Security patrols!" "A good point, Shluh. The Mark socks to hair-piece. Of course, a little poison in the caterer's salt-shaker wouldn't trip the detectors, but the metabolic monitors would catch that on the routine analysis that's run on food to be sure it's safe for alien consumption. So the Borgia approach is out, too." "I tire of your theorizing!" Shluh was on his feet. "Think what you will! I tell you in confidence: Even now your Chancery is surrounded by my troops -- ostensibly as honor guard -- but none can leave or enter! By this hour tomorrow no Terry will dare to show his naked face in any capital in the Sector -- "Tomorrow, eh?" Retief nodded. 'Thanks for giving me your timetable." "Have done, infamous meddler in the destinies of Groac! But before you die, tell me the name of the spy who sold you our secrets, and I shall personally supervise his impalement on the wall of one thousand hooks!" IF "Secrets, eh? I guess that confirms my guesswork," Retief said. "One more question: What pay-off do the Blugs get -- " "Silence!" Shluh keened. "Be assured your brief remaining hours will be devoted not to questioning matters of policy beyond your grasp, but to supplying detailed answers to a number of queries of my own!" "Wrong again," Retief said and took a step toward the desk on which the police officer leaned, shaking a gloved fist. Shluh jumped back, motioned to the armed guard standing by, who swung his power gun to the ready, aimed at Retief s face. "Haven't your lads been told that you can't fire a blaster in an enclosed space like this without incinerating everything in it, including the shooter?" Retief asked casually, and took another step. The guard lowered the gun hesitantly, his eyes twitching in confusion. "He lies, cretinous hive-mate of broodfoulers! Fire!" Shluh screeched, and ducked to snatch at an open drawer. Retief reached him in a bound, caught the unfortunate captain by the neck, sent him skidding toward the guard as a belated shot lit the room like a photoflash. As the two Groaci went down in a heap, Retief caught up the dropped gun. "Well, another myth exploded," he said. "Shluh, take off your belt and strap him up." With the gun covering the two aliens, he seated himkey on the desk field-phone, punched in a number. A moment later, the glum face of Counsellor of Embassy Clutchplate appeared on the screen. He giaped. "Retief! What -- how -- Do you realize -- ? Did you actually -- ? How could you have..." his voice faltered as he took in the scene in the background. "Isn't that Chief Shluh? What's he doing?' "He just ran into an old acquaintance," Retief soothed, ignoring a sharp rap at the door. "Mr. Clutchplate, how far along are the arrangements for Blug participation in the Conference?"  V rive within the hour. The convoy just 'vised Port Authority for landing clearance. But see here -- " "Convoy?" Retief glanced up as pounding sounded at the door. "Just fifty first-class cruisers; as escort for the transport. The Blug never travel unarmed, you know. But -- " "See if you can get the ambassador to turn them down," Retief rapped. "Failing that, meet 'em with an armed guard and -- " "Mr. Retief!" the counsellor barked. "I don't know what mad scheme you've embarked on, but it won't work! I know how you feel about the Blugs, and the Groaci too, for that matter. But taking the law into your own hands -- " "No time for any long discussions, Mr. Clutchplate," Retief cut in as a heavy thud rocked the door. "I'd ask you for a squad of Marines if I knew where I was, but -- " "Turn yourself in," Clutchplate blurted. "It's the only way. You IV can plead guilty due to temiporary insanity brought on by outraged political convictions, and get off with no more than half a dozen years on a penal satellite." "It's an interesting proposal." Relief ducked as splinters of door whined past his head. "What am I guilty of?" "Murder, of course," Clutchplate yelped. "Two Sulinorians, remember?" "It slipped my mind," Relief said. "But see if you can hold the charge open a little longer. I may have a few Groaci to add to it." He flipped off the screen as the door shuddered and bulged inward. "Time for you to talk fast, Shluh," he said crisply. "Tve decided to slip out the back way to avoid the autograph hounds. There are three doors I could use. You'll tell me which one's the best route." "Never!" Relief fired a bolt from the hip past the Groaci. "On the other hand," Shluh hissed quickly, "what matter if you temporarily elude my overzealous troops? Our plans will proceed -- and the measures you sought to set in motion will avail naught to stop them!" He darted to a side door, keyed it open. "Go, then, Retief! But take what path you will, a dreadful end awaits you!" "In that case, you'd better go first." Shluh hissed and tried to dart aside, but Retief caught him, propelled him ahead with a foot in the seat. He slammed and barred the panel behind him, as the outer door fell in with a crash. T hey followed dim, dusty passages, ascended winding stairways, moved silently along dark, lofty halls lined with ancient armor and hung with rotted banners. Half a dozen times. Retief eluded Groaci search parties by a hair's breadth. In a wide room decorated with painted murals showing centauroids cavorting on purple grass, Shluh gestured toward a high-arched, doorless opening (through which pale moonlight gleamed. 'There is your exit to the night, Retief!" he keened sardonically. "Make what use of it you will! The way is clear!" Retief crossed the room, stepped out onto a tiny balcony, thick with the droppings of the tiny bat-like creatures that wheeled and skreelod at his appearance. Ragged vines grew over a low balustrade, beyond which darkness spread to a skyline of tower-encrusted hills. He looked down. The wall dropped sheer into inky shadows far below. "Thanks for everything, Shluh." He threw a leg over the stone railing. "I'll see you at your trial -- if your bosses let you live that long, after the way you've botched your assignment." "Stop, impetuous outworlder!" Shluh keened, as Groaci feet clicked in the room behind him. "Even sfhould you survive the descent, you know not what you do! Not even you would I urge on to what waits in the darkness below!" "You mean your short patrols?" "Not my patrols, nor the Marines IF your own embassy which even now seek you, warrant in hand will ever find you, if once you set foot in those demon-haunted byways!" "So that's where you set up your jail-house?" Retief looked thoughtful. "Still, I'd rather mingle with spooks than go back to your little party. Ta-ta, Shluh. Stay as sweet as you are." Shluh hit the deck as Retief raised the gun and fired a burst toward the approaching search party, slung the blast rifle over his shoulder and started down toward the silent streets of the Forbidden City. yt was an easy climb. Once a pair X of Groaci heads appeared over the balcony rail above, but they drew back quickly. The wall was deeply carved, and the stout vines provided ample handand foot-holds. It was less than ten minutes before Retief swung down and dropped the last few feet into a mass of unpruned shrubbery from which he emerged on an avenue of marble mansions like abandoned funeral homes. The two pale moons of Sulinore came from behind a cloud and shone down ghostly white. Something small and dark flitted overhead, emitting thin cries. Far away, a mournful wail sounded. Retief set off at a brisk walk, his footsteps echoing hollowly on the worn mosaics that paved the way. Ahead, a lofty obelisk reared up. The inscription, nearly effaced by time, seemed to commemorate a battle fought with giants. At the next corner, the carved heads of ogres peered blindly down at him from an ornate cornice. He passed a fountain, diy and silent, where finned and tailed maidens of stone disported themselves amid marble waves. The dank wind blew dead leaves along the street. As Retief paused, a sound as of small feet pattered for a moment, then fell silent. "Come on out," Retief called. "There's some news you ought to hear." There was a ghostly laughter -- or perhaps it was only the wind, searching among the fluted columns of a temple. Retief went on. Rounding an abrupt angle, he caught a glimpse of movement -- a darting shape that disappeared into a gaping doorway. He followed, found himself in a hall, open to the sky. From its walls, giant frescoed figures stared down with empty eyes. "I need a guide," , Retief called. "Any volunteers?" "Tears... tears... tears," the echoes rolled back from every side. "There's a small matter of an invasion to deal with right now." "Now... now... now..." the sound faded and died, and as if the word were a signal, a creak sounded from the high doors through which Retief had entered. He spun in time tosee them clash shut with a dull boom that echoed and re-echoed. He went to them, found them jammed tight, immovable. He turned back to the interior of the roofless room. A wide passage was visible at the rear. Skitting a black pool that reflected a shattered moon, he entered the passage, emerged after twenty paces on a terrace above a flight of wide, shallow steps. Below, a dark and wildgrown park spread out, a wilderness of untrimmed shrubs and lofty, blackleaved trees. He descended to the foot-high sward; soft rustlings from the shadows retreated as he advanced along a weed-obscured path winding among the buttressed trunks of patriarchal trees. Carved faces leered at him from the shadows. The eerie shapes of stone monsters gleamed through the unpruned foliage. He emerged onto a broad mall along the center of which a double rank of what appeared to be painted statues of heroic size were drawn up along an aisle that led away into the nigjht. Near at hand, a small collonaded shrine was almost hidden among the low-sweeping boughs of a giant conifer. Silently, Retief approached the building from the side. Through a latticed opening, faint moonlight fell on the vine-entwined effigy of an oversized Sulinorian in the armor of an ancient warrior. In the darkness behind the graven hero, something moved minutely. Relief tossed a pebble through the window, flattened himself against the wall by the doorway. A moment later, a head poked cautiously from the entry -- and Retiefs hand clamped on the slender Sulinorian neck. "Pardon my interrupting the game," he said. "But it's time we had a talk." V #np'he price of entrance into the A Sacred Grove of Heroes is death, Terran!" the tenor voice of the alien shrilled. "So I understand," Retief said, holding his catch at arm's length to avoid the wildly kicking feet. "However, my little intrusion is nothing compared with what the Groaci have scheduled. Maybe you'd better listen to what I have to say before you carry out the sentence." "Tomorrow is nothing; the past is all," the Sulinorian declaimed. "Why struggle against Destiny, outworlder?" "We can give destiny a run for her money if you'll spread the word that I need a few hundred ablebodied Sulinorians to distract the Groaci patrols long enough for me to get through to the Terry Embassy -- " "Offer your final devotions to your gods, man of Terra," the Sulinorian cut in. "Your fate is sealed." "You're consistent, I'll concede that," Retief said. "It looks as though I'll have to look a little farther for a public-spirited citizen." He released the native, who jerked his varicolored toga straight and faced him defiantly. "Not so, Terran!" The local folded his knobby arms. "Never will you leave these hallowed precincts!" Rustlings sounded behind Retief. He turned. From every shadowed clump of shrubbery, a Sulinorian emerged; light winked from the footlong stilettoes in their hands. Silently, the ring of aliens closed in. Retief backed to the shrine, unlimbered the blast rifle, swung it to cover the throng which halted, facing him. "Welcome to the party," he said. IF "Now that we've got a quorum, maybe we'll get somew'here." "You outrage the glorious past, Terran," a wizened Sulinorian quavered, staring up at Retief. "You heap outrage on outrage!" "The outrage the Groaci are planning is the one I'm concerned with," Retief said. "You people don't seem to care much, but from the Terry viewpoint, it might set an unfortunate precedent for other budding empire-builders." "Terry, gone are the days when we of Sulinore were mighty warriors. If now it falls our lot to die, we face our fate in dignity." "There's nothing dignified about being scragged by the Groaci, or strung up by the heels by a platoon of Blugs," Retief cut in. "I hear they have a curious sense of humor when it comes to dealing with anyone who's proved his inferiority by getting conquered by them." "Kill this alien at once, isn't it?" a scratchy-voiced Sulinorian in the front rank called. "After, everybody die nicely, as scheduled." "Enough talk," the elderly Sulinorian declared. "Let the disturber of the sleep of heroes suffer the penalty!" The Sulinorians eyed the gun in Retief's hands, shuffled their feet. No one advanced. "Maybe you'd better call the penalty off," Retief suggested. "Then you can divert your righteous indignation into doing something about the invasion." "Hmmmm." The elderly spokesman beckoned to a couple of his fellows; they put their heads together. "We have decided," the oldster stated as the conference ended, "that the matter must be referred to the Old Ones for decision." He raised a trembling hand. "Not that we fear to fall under your murderous weapon, Terran -- but it is a death which lacks elegance." He waved a hand and an avenue opened up through the dense ranks of armed locals. "Terran, I give you temporary safe-conduct and the honor of confrontation with the Ancient Lords of Sulinore, who will themselves dispose of this case. Come, if you fear not I" "Fair enough," Retief said. "When you want fast action, there's nothing like going direct to the top brass. Where do we find them?" "Behold the Lords of Sulinore!" the ancient piped feebly. The locals made sweeping bows to the ranks of still figures about them. Retief inclined his head respectfully. 'They cut an impressive figure," he said. "I'll be interested to see how they go about dealing with the problem at hand." #Qimplicity itself," the old SulinoO rian said. "One waft of the sacred incense, and a faint shadow of their vanished vitality will energize them. Then will they hear our pleas and hand down justice in the ancient way." Retief walked slowly along the row of motionless effigies, noting the worn trappings, the realistically scarred limbs and fierce visages, the tarnished armor of the ancient warriors. In spite of their size and varied farms, all bore some resemblance to the shrunken SuJiinorians who followed, silent and awed. "Once the races of Sulinore were many," the ancient said as he noticed Relief's questing gaze. "And mighty was their prowess. 'There stands #briale the Intense, Requiter of Wrongs. Beyond, we see proud Valingrave, victor at Har and Jungulon and Spagetwraidie. Here -- " he indicated the modest crypt " -- behold the shrine of Bozdune the Restial, known also as Bozdune the Baresark, of ferocious memory. And there -- " he pointed to a four-legged, barrelchested creature with a typical Sulinorian torso and head " -- stand the mortal remains of Great Tussore, he who single-handed vanquished the hordes of Doss, on a world so distant that even now the sunlight of his day of battle has not yet reached the face of Sulinore!" "He looks like a tough boy," Relief commented. "Too bad he's not still around. He might take a dim view of the way things are going." "Did I not say Mighty Tussore would give his judgment? Aye, and Cranius the August, and Maglodore the Swift, and Belgesion, and Vare, and High Pranthippo, King of Kings -- " "A most august assemblage," Relief conceded. "But they seem a rather taciturn group." "You jape at the Lords of SuliBore, Terran?" The oldster drew himself up, made an imperious gesture. A pair of locals nearly as old as himself came forward, bearing a large case which they placed on the grass, opening the lid. Inside was a cylindrical tank fitted with valves and a coil of flexible plastic tubing. The dodderer lifted the nozzle erf the hose, advanced to the pedestal on which the centauroid stood. "Awaken, Great Tussore!" he cried in his cracked voice. "Rouse from thy long dreams to render judgment on one who comes unbidden to the Place of Heroes!" He raised the hose and waved it under the flared nostrils. Retief heard a faint hiss of escaping gas. "Give us of thy ancient wisdom as in days of old, O Tussore," the old fellow exhorted. He shoved the hose closer. "Almost is the sacred effluvium exhausted," he muttered. "I'll bet a pretty some of these backsliders have been tapping it on the sly." S uddenly one pointed ear of the statue twitched. The flared nostrils quivered. The eyelids fluttered. As Retief watched, the lips parted. "Glop," the mighty figure said, and fell silent. "Drat it, what a time for the tank to run out," someone beside Retief muttered. "How does he work it?" Retief inquired softly as the Keeper of the Sacred Fumes waved the hose agitatedly, vainly invoking the unmoving demigod. "We work nothing, interloper," the Sulinorian said sullenly. "A good shot of sacred gas, and their metabolism starts ticking over fast enough to start them talking, that's all." Abruptly, Tussore stirred again. IF "The devil take the blackguards," a deep voice suddenly rumbled from his chest. "Where's my greaves? Where's my fetlock powder? Where's my confounded mace? Blast that butter-fingered squire... "Great Tussore, wake from thy dreams!" The hosewielder redoubled his efforts. "Hear me! Even now there stands in our midst a stranger wbo violates the honored rest of the Lords of Sulinore with his presence!" "Oh... it's you, Therion," Tussore mumbled. His eyes were open now, bleary and dull. "You look terrible. Been a long time, I guess. And it's not the stranger who disturbs my rest -- it's you, with your infernal babbling!" He reached, plucked the hose from the oldster's hand, jammed it under his nose, drew a deep breath. "Ahhhh! That's what the doctor ordered." "Even so. Great Tussore!" The Sulinorian proceeded to relate the circumstances surrounding Retiefs presence. Halfway through the recital, Tussore's eye-lids drooped. The hose fell from his hand. He snored. "So the problem. Great One, is how to administer the prescribed rituals without suffering the indecorum of being mowed down like ripe beer-corn by the condemned one," the oldster concluded. "Great Tussore? Mighty one?" He waved the hose frantically, but his efforts this time were unavailing. The still figure stood, unmoving as a sphinx. #CQo much for the wisdom of the O ages," Relief said. "Nice try, Theiion, but it looks like the Oracle's not interested. Let's go." "Make silent this one, plenty quick!" a small Sulinorian rasped --  same one. Relief thought, who had spoken up earlier. "No more time for pulling string on wooden god! Cut away the head of this Terry, yes! And soon after, fates proceed on schedule!" "Silence, impertinent oaf!" Therion rounded on the speaker. "Your cacophonous squeakings impugn the majesties of Sulinore! Give me your name, for later disciplining!" The one addressed backed away, looking flustered, as if suddenly onscious of being conspicuous. Relief studied his face. "Well, if it isn't my old friend Coriale," he said. "You ought to be an expert on the subject of dying. Seems to me I've seen you expire twice already this evening." The Coriale-faced alien whirled suddenly, plunged for the rear rank. "Seize him!" Therion called. The quarry ducked, dodged, dived through a gap in the suddenly surging ranks, scuttled sideways as his retreat was cut off, made a dash for the shrubbery. The chase pounded off into the underbrush. Relief seated himself on a convenient pedestal and lit a dope-stick. Five minutes passed before the crowd again surged into view, the darting quarry still in the lead. He put on a sprint, scuttled to the shrine, dived inside. "His impiety passes all bounds!" Therion puffed, coming up to Relief. "Now the mad creature seeks fibditer in the very crypt of Bozdimel" "Let 'him be fetched out and dealt with!" someone shrilled. "Stay!" Therion piped as the aroused crowd closed in. "We'll not bring dishonor to the hero by scuffling about his feet. Come! Let us withdraw and leave this fevered maniac to regain his senses among the shadows of the greatness which was his race's!" R elief took out his pocket light and played the beam between the columns of the refugee's hiding place. Between the great steeltoed boots of Bozdune, a smaller pair of feet was visible. He directed the light higher. "Correction," he said. "Not his . race's; that's no Sulinorian. Look." The light revealed a cloud of brown mist coiling upwards around the rigid features of the preserved hero. "The meeting's been infiltrated by a masquerading alien -- an alien who exhales brown gas when he gets excited." "What's this? Brown gas -- ?" Therion's question was interrupted by a startled cry from a Sulinorian near the temple entry, followed a moment later by a snort like a teased bull. "He stirs! Bozdune rouses!" Suddenly Sulinorians were running in every direction. Relief caught Therion's arm as the elder turned to follow the general flight. "Unhand me, fellow!" the oldster screeched as a bellow sounded from the shrine. "Death I face with a proud smile -- but there's something inappropriate about being ripped limb from limb by an ancestor!" "Is that the kind of fellow you make a hero of?" Relief inquired as smashing sounds emanated from the crypt, followed by the hurtling body of the Coriale double, which skidded to Relief's feet and lay moving feebly. "Unfortunately Bozdune lost his wits as a result of three month's exposure to the Tickling Torture at the hands of the infamous Kreee," Therion explained hastily. "He's prone to rages, when suddenly aroused, and prudence demands my swift removal hence!" He pulled free and bounded away with an agility remarkable in a being of his age. Relief turned as a rumble of falling stone sounded from the shrine. A mighty figure had appeared between the columns, stood with hands pressed against them. Great cords of muscle stood out on his neck; his biceps bulged; his latissimi dorsi strained. The column buckled and went over, bringing down a section of the architrave. Bozdune roared as the marble slab bounced from his back. With a final thrust, he toppled a second column, stepped forth as stone collapsed behind him. Eight feet high, massive as a buffalo, he stood in the moonlight, snarling. His wild gaze fell on Relief. "Kreee!" he bellowed. "I have you now!" and charged the lone Terran. VI R elief stood his ground as Bozdune closed in. "You've got me confused with someone else, Bozdune," he called. "I'm just a Terry doing a little job of planet-saving." IF With a bellow, the ancient fighter thundered past the spot where Retief had stood a moment before. He fought his way clear of the underbrush into which the momentum of his dash had carried him, rounded on his elusive prey. "And in that connection. I'd like to ask a little favor of you," Retief continued. "A group of opportunists called the Groaci are planning to massacre all the foreign diplomats in town -- " "Arrrrghhhl" Bozdune roared and closed in swinging roundhouse swipes sufficient to decapitate a horse. Retief leaned aside from one wild swing, ducked under another, planted his feet and drove a solid leftright to the giant's stomach, an effect like punching a sea-wall. He jumped aside as Bozdune grunted and made an ineffective grab, landing a blow in his own midriff that staggered him. "Now, the Groaci have the streets cordoned off," Retief went on. "And since it's important that I get through to the Embassy with the news. I'd like to ask you to lend a hand." He stepped back as Bozdune ripped his six-foot blade from its sheath, whirled it overhead. Retief tossed the last rifle aside, plucked a wristthick spear from the grip of a horned warrior which loomed immobile beside him. Bozdune made a bound, brought the massive claymore down in a whistling arc that cleaved air an inch to Retief's right as he faded aside. "Now, if you'd just say a word to your descendants, I think they might consent to lend a hand." Retief poked the spear hard against Bozdune's breastplate. "How about it?" Bozdune dropped his sword, grabbed the spear shaft with both hands, and gave a prodigious pull -- and as Retief let go, tottered backward, tripped over a fragment of shattered column and went down like a fallen oak. Retief heard the dull thonk! as his head struck the marble steps of his erstwhile shelter. He stepped quickly forward. Used the warrior's own harness straps to bind his wrists together, then his ankles. At that moment, the bushes parted and Therion's aged face appeared. "What transpires?" he piped. His eye fixed on the prone giant. "What, Bozdune the Bestial, felled by a mere outworlder?" "I'm afraid I can't claim the glory," Retief said. "He ran out of gas." He glanced toward the spot where the false Coriale had lain. "But if you can find the ringer, I may be able to remedy that." "He's here, the infamous dastard," a Sulinorian called, dragging the unfortunate imposter from a clump of gorse. Retief got a grip on the captive's collar, assisted him to Bozdune's side. "Breathe on the nice man. Shorty," he ordered. A great gout of brown gas puffed obediently forth. "Again." The prisoner huffed and puffed, exhaling the vapor past the fallen fighter's snoring visage. In a moment, Bozdune twitched, jerked and opened his eyes. "You're still here, eh?" he said to Relief. "I thought I dreamed you," He sniffed again. "Gadzoons, first good air I've breathed in a couple hundred years. More!" He raised his voice as Relief withdrew the pseudo-Coriale. "Not unless you agree to lend a hand," Relief countered. "Then I promise you all the sacred essence you want." "Are you kidding? Just let me get my hands on these Gruckles or whoever they are that think they can carve my home town up, and I'll grind them into library paste!" "It's a deal. Relief turned to Therion. "How about it? You in or out?" "If Bozdune approves the enterprise, then who are we to demur?" the oldster inquired of the cool night air. "Rise, loyal Sons of Sulinore! For this night at least, the ancient glories live again!" Retiei gave Bozdune another shot of gas, then passed the captive to Therion. "Don't squeeze him too hard," he cautioned. "We've got to make him stretch as far as we can; if this caper's going to succeed, we'll need all the ancient glory we can muster." F rom a shadowy arch half a block from the carved gates of the Terran Embassy, Relief, seated astride Tussore's broad back, watched as the fifty-Groaci guard detail sauntered past, their stemmed eyes scanning the street alertly, their blast rifles ready at port arms. Behind him, the tread of booted Groaci feet approached relentlessly. "Get ready," he said softly. "Another ten seconds..." There was a chorus of weak shouts from the rear, a slapping of running feet, the buzzzz-whapp! of power guns firing; then a pair of Groaci troopers appeared, pelting along in advance of a mighty figure in ancient armor. In full stride, he overtook them, snatched them up by their necks and tossed them aside. Behind him, a crowd of Sulinorians, toga skirts hitched high, brandished their ceremonial knives as they followed their massive leader toward the gate. A moment later, the giant was among the patrollers, flailing with a spike-studded mace before a gun was fired. "Let's go!" Relief kicked his heels into Tussore's sides, and the mighty centauroid bounded forward. In an instant, they were in the thick of the melee. Relief swinging a yard-long club as Tussore reared and struck out with iron-hard hooves. "Cut your way through!" Relief called to his mount. We can mop up later, after we've taken care of the main event!" "Aiii! What a lovely squishing sound these Gruckers make beneath my hooves!" the old warrior yelled, but he wheeled and charged the gate. Half a block away. Relief caught a glimpse of Bozdune, tossing Groaci troopers aside like straw dummies. From every dark alleymouth and byway, Sulinorians were pouring. A lone Groaci in the gatehouse brought up his blast-rifle, loosed a round that missed by inches; then Reliefs club felled him, and they were through, crossing the lawn toward the lighted entry at full gallop. A startled Marine guard let out a yell IP and reached for the lever which would slam the grill in the faces of the invaders, but a sweep of Tussore's arm sent the sentry sprawling. Inside, Relief swung down, started up the grand staircase, five steps at a time. Suddenly Counsellor Clutchplate appeared on the landing above. Uetief!" His eyes took in the IV massive, sweaty, horse-bodied Tussore, helmed and sword-girded, the motley horde of Sulinorians swarming behind. "Good lord! Treason! Treachery! Hallucinations!" He whirled to run as Relief caught him, spun him around. "Has the banquet begun yet?" he demanded. "J... j... just starting now," the counsellor choked. "It happens I don't like Groaci iodine chowder, so I just stepped out for a breath of air." He stumbled back as Relief dashed on. At the high double doors to the banquet hall, a Marine in dress blues, polished helmet and chrome-plated ceremonial .# departed from his rigid position of attention sufficiently to roll his eyes as the newcomers surged down on him. At what he saw, he grabbed for the holster at his hip. Relief slammed a side-handed blow at his wrist. "Sorry, son," he snapped and sent the doors flying open on the roomful of startled diplomats. From both sides of a long U-shaped table, oculars of every description goggled at the spectacle that burst upon them. Retief pointed to the impassive Sulinorian servitors standing behind the diners. spaced all along the room, one to a customer. "Get 'em" he commanded and reached for the nearest as the troop at his heels boiled past to carry out his instruction. VU  ou've gone out of your mind, Jl Retief!" Counsellor Clutchplate gazed, white-faced and shaken, from the broken doorway at the scene of carnage after the capture of the last of the servitors. "What can it mean, leading this party of dacoits to violate the Embassy? I must protest, even at risk of my life, whatever atrocities you plan to visit on these poor chaps! They're "They'll survive -- some of 'em," Retief said, and plucking a steak knife from the table, he stooped over one of the fallen waiters and with a quick stroke, laid him open from chin to navel. Clutchplate uttered a strangled yelp; Ambassador Shindlesweet turned pale and quietly collapsed under the table as Retief reached, extracted a limp, two-foottall creature resembling a shelled lobster from the interior of the pseudoflesh costume. "They're not Sulinorians; they're Slugs." He reached again, pulled out a small pressure-tank. "This is his air supply; liquid nitrogen." "Slugs?" Clutchplate gaped at the unconscious creature, from whose breathing orifice a brown exhalation now was issuing. "Sut what -- how -- ? See here, Retief! even if these are, er, Slugs, what harm IF could they have done unarmed, which would warrant your outrageous behavior?" "Blugs are rock-eaters," Retief explained. "And they seem to have a remarkable degree of control over their metabolism. Normally, they exhale innocuous gases; under stress, they start exhaling nitrogen trioxide. But when occasion demands, they can switch to production of any one of three or four poisonous oxides of nitrogen. Here in this closed room, all it would have taken was one good whiff down each guest's neck, on signal, and bingo! Clean sweep." "But why?" Clutchplate wailed. "I have an idea Ambassador Shith can tell us how they happened to be here, instead of Coriale's regular table-waiting staff," Retief suggested. Shith, still dangling in Tussore's grasp, emitted a harsh bleat. "Gloat while you can, Mr. Retief!" he hissed. "True, every word! I commend your cleverness! But while you spent your efforts in thwarting this feint -- yes, feint! -- the squadron of Blug warships which you Terries so naively permitted to pass your blockade were discharging fifty thousand picked troops, the cream of the Bluggish navy! Even now these diminutive but doughty doughboys are spreading out over the town, breathing their deadly halitosis on every living creature in their paths! By morning, no Sulinorian will be alive to dispute the Groaci claim to planetary ownership!" # #hith -- have you taken leave O of your senses?" Shindlesweet had revived sufficiently to crawl forth, spluttering. "When this is known you'll be hauled before a Galactic tribunal and dealt with in a manner that will make the name of Groac a byword to replace that of Doctor Mush!" "Mud," Shith corrected. "Permit me to contradict you, my dear George! Not one word of the coup will be noised abroad. My constabulary have already taken the precaution of securing the only communications facilities on the planet forces; in a matter of moments my chaps will arrive to put an end to your illusions of success! Don't fret, however. I promise you a swift and painless demise." He paused, aiming several eyes at Retief. "Why do you shake your head, sir! My scheme is flawless! My invasion is an accomplished fact!" "True -- but you missed one small point," Retief said. "The Sulinorians were gradually fading off the scene due to the exhaustion of the planet's supply of a certain element yital to their well-being. But instead of dying, after about the age of five hundred, they'd drift off into a comatose state. You and your nitrogenfixing Blugs have changed all that, Mr. Ambassador. Thanks to you, Suldnore has a new lease on life." "You seek even in the eleventh hour to delude yourself!" Shith hissed. "Hearken! Even now my occupation forces approach the door!" There was a noisy clump of feet from the hall outside. Then the migjhty figure of Bozdune the Bestial, broad and bronzed. appeared in the eoitry. He plucked a shattered door from its hinges with one hand and tosssed it aside. "Nice going, Refcief," he boomed. but the place is swarming wth those lovable little guys you called Blugs. All the boys are catching 'em and making pets of 'em. I've got one in my pocket, and he's keeping me supplied like a tall glunthound!" The behemoth's ochre eyes fell on the laden table. "Chow!" he bassooned. "I haven't had a square meal in eight hundred years!" "Then -- this means my invasion has failed?" Shith wailed. "My someticulously planned invasion, spoiled in the eleventh hour by one trivial oversight?" "Qh, your invasion is a huge success," Retief said comfortingly. "But this time the invadees are the winners." really must protest this flagX rant interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign world, George," Ambassador Shith whispered vehemently from his position sfories for TV !  says Leslie Goodwins, dynamic H#ll#rwood more! Use our services: send us your story; we do the rest! Send story or story idea (from I to # pam not more) lor free focamination to; #I Melrose Ave., HollywoodTCalif. #Q# on the platform where the group of local and foreign dignitaries stood, awaiting the appearance of the parade organized by the Sulinorians to celebrate the invasion. "I demand the immediate return of the impounded units of the Blug navy and the repatriation of all Blug nationals!' "Spare me your threnodies, my dear Shith." Ambassador Shindlesweet raised a remonstrative hand. "We'd have a sticky time of it were we to attempt to dislodge the Blugs now. You're aware. I'm sure, diat as their breathing tanks ran low, they escaped their captors and burrowed their way down half a mile to a nitrogen-rich stratum and are busily digesting rock and releasing free radicals -- that, and reproducing. I think you might be said to be fortunate to be sharing the honors today as co-sponsor of the Blug Immigration Plan, rather than lanbrig, awaiting trial." "Pah!" the Groaci envoy vibrated his throat-sac in indignation. "In that case," he changed tack, "I see no reason why Groac should share credit for this enlightened program under which, at no cost to these ungrateful locals, their atmosphere is being so rapidly renewed!" "Really, Shith," the Terran chief of mission said in a low voice, "it's only the fact that a full disclosure of the events leading up to the present rapprochement might tempt certain petty critics at Sector to the faulty conclusion that I had been in some way remiss, that prevents me from releasing the transcript of IF the rather excited pronouncement which you so providently delivered into the recorders set up to capture the after-dinner speeches... He cupped an ear as distant bugles sounded "Gentlemen, I think I hear them coming now." A long the ancient street, a procession was advancing, banners awave. In the front rank were Tussore and Bozdune, grim and giganslung at their hips, their armor sparkling in the red rays of the swollen sun. Behind them, rank on rank, marched the revived immortals of Sulinore, a column that stretched away out of sight along the shadowy street. "This matter of allowing these chaps to seize the Blug ships as spoils of war and set off on a raiding expedition is an irregularity that I'm going to have difficulty glossing over in my report," Shindlesweet said behind his hand to Therion. "But off the record," he added, "I suppose rU manage -- so long as you're sure they'll do their raiding in Groacimandated territory." "Indeed, I hope you'll interpose no obstacles to the ruffians departing Sulinore as expeditiously as possible," the elder whispered loudly. "We're well rid of the smelly brutes. They have no conception of the dignity appropriate to legendary heroes." Tussore, catching sight of Retief, broke ranks and cantered over to the group, puffing smoke from the cigar clamped in his mouth. "Well, we're off," he called heartily. "And glad to be going! The old place isn't the same any more. I can't even step on the grass without some whisk-broom handler jumping out and giving me a hard time. And that dying sun! Paugh! It gives me great cloud of smoke, raised an eyebrow at Retief. "Say, why don't you change your mind and join us, Retief?" he demanded. "We'll have a lot more fun out there chasing across the universe than you will staying back here with these stick-in-the-muds." "It's a temptation," Retief said. "Maybe some day I'll take you up on it. I have an idea your traiil will m mate a Saper Directional Mika that ampUflaa inalio, that ym will ha using your Supar Miae tional Mika # minutes after you abtalQ lAt ordinary store materials. Easy Instruelloaa, # N. Hiehland Ave., Hollywood, Coin. #W# IF  Special Feature Where to go next Labor Day to meet the elite of sf! E very year the science-fiction world gets together in a different city and has itself a World Convention. And, every year, at this convention they decide which city will be the convention-site for next year. The # convention was in Cleveland, Ohio; there, the delegates voted New York to be the home of the # World Science Fiction Convention. Since I live in New York, this was naturally good news to me. But it's also a 'historic choice, because twenty-eight years ago, way back in #, New York was the site of the first science-fiction convention ever, the famous "Nycon." This convention will also be callcause there was a second convention in N.Y.C. during the #'s. This year's convention promises to be the best, and biggest, and liveliest ever... and if you missed the Tricon in '#, start planning now to visit When and where -- and how to oin The Nycon will convene over the Labor Day weekend at the Hotel Statler-Hilton here in New York. Labor Day in September is the traditional convention date, because the long holiday weekend gives out-oftown visitors extra time for convention-going and sight-seeing. As for the Statler-Hilton, it's one of the biggest and most glamorous hotels in a city filled with big, glamorous hotels, and it's centrally located in Manhattan, convenient for in-coming tourists. I interviewed the two chairmen of the # Nycon, two chaps named Ted White and David G. Van Amam, both members of the big New York fanclub, the Fanoclasts, and both very active in national fandom. (Both, incidentally, are breaking into the professional ranks as science-fiction writers. ) Even though you'll have to wait till September to actually attend Nycan't become a member of the convention right now. To do so, send your check or money order for # to Box #; Gracie Square Station, New York #. You'll be a registered member of the # World Science Fiction Convention and will receive occasional Progress Reports which will fill you in on the program, the guests and the entertainments as the program gradually shapes up. fhe Progrom Book and "Nycon Comics" Nycon Comics goes out to all paid members. This is a special comicbook drawn by Jack Gaughan -- you've seen his work in If many times. The first issue of Nycon Comics, which is neatly photo-offset printed, has already been distributed. ##, # and # have yet to appear. There's literally nothing I can say about Jack Gaughan's comic book, except that it's one of the funniest things I've seen in years. The wild and woeful misadventures of a little band of heroic space-pioneers, struggling frenziedly to get the Nycon going (despite evil influences from Floor) have to be seen and chuckled over to be understood. Every convention has a Program Book and sometimes a more elaborate Memory Book of the convention as well. Nycon hopes to produce a mammoth combination Nycon Program and Memory Book, which will include lots of other features beside just the program listing. They hope to include special articles by major speakers (including the Guest of Honor, but I'll get to him in just a moment) and lots of other extras. Two Guests of Honor? Every year, the convention singles out one particularly popular sciencefiction writer to boost as Guest of Honor. Last year in Cleveland as you may remember, the GoH was none other than L. Sprague de Camp himself. Well, this year... (biggest and best yet, remember?)... there will be not one... but two Guests of Honor! Or is it "Guest of Honors?" Well, you know what I mean. Anyway, the Nycon will have two of 'em, a Fan Guest of Honor and a sf professional GoH. The latter is to be Lester del Rey. Lester came into the field back in the "Golden Forties" when John W. Campbell was collecting andor ters with which to adorn the pages of Astounding Science Fiction. Lester was one of a group that included Robert Heinlein, A. E. Van Vogt, Henry Kuttner, L. Sprague de Camp, Isaac Asimov, Clifford Simak, Murray Leinster, L. Ron Hubbard and others. You will easily remember a number of very fine stories with the name of del Rey fastened to ikcai... "Helen O'Loy" is a muchaiiitliolO)gized classic; so is the taut, su;eii#eful "Nerves"; my own favorite comes from one of the earliest issues of Galaxy -- "The Wind Between the Worlds." The Fan Guest of Honor is good old Bob Tuokw, a tall, cheerful guy with a crewcul, whose sense of humor has made him one of the bestliked men in sdraice-fiotion fandom. For quite a few (but not enougih) years he publMied a fanzine called Le Zombie that was very big, very popular, very funny. (When I say "big," I mean, well, like Hannes Bok used to draw covers for it, you know what I mean?) Since then, Bob Tucker went into the writing game himself, with a slew of hardboiled detective mysteries, starting with one called The Chinese Doll, which set fandom back on its heels, because Tucker named some of his characters after sciencefiction fans, from the sheriff and the undertaker down to the suspects... Well, quite a few novels followed that one, including six or eight science-fiction novels, like The Long Loud Silence and The Lincoln Hunters. Despite all this. Bob remained a fan at heart, and the Nycon Committee is looking forward to welcoming him to New York in style. What's on the program? There will be a banquet, of course, only for this one the Nycon has asked Harlan Ellison to be toastmaster. Ellison is the only toastmaster I know who doesn't really need a microphone. There will also be another "Galaxy of Fashion" show, sponsored by Galaxy magazine. The first of these futuristic faon shows was at the Tricon in Cleveland; the Nycon folks thou it was good fun, so New York will have another. Most of the convention program is fairly traditional -- an auction of rare books, magazines, original cover paintings and illustrations from the prozincs. And the Fan Art Show, which will be run by Bjo Trimble, who has been putting these shows together for the past few conventions. If you would like to enter some drawing or paintings of your own you'd better contact the Nycon Committee for details. And by the way, a special innovation at this year's convention will be included in the Nycon Program  Memory Book; a special folio of winning artwork from the Fan Art Shows of earlier conventions. Another innovation is scheduled. The Nycon will feature a running series of "Dialogues" scattered throughout the three-day convention program. These dialogues will be public conversations between two prominent science-fiction celebrities chosen for their gifts of conversational ability and the talent for thinking on their feet tliat makes all the difference between dull chitchat and pungent, meaningful talk. Dialogue partners will represent opposing points of view on the several questions rife in the fan and pro worlds right now... the program has not IF yet "firmed" to the point where I can list the topics to be discussed, but one that may go over will be between two well-known writers (whom I've been asked not to name). One represents the new slick-magazine "avant garde" type of science fiction, and the other stands for the old style "story-telling" brand of fiction. A battle of wits between them should be stimulating. There will be several such Dialogues on the program, as well as another innovation: a series of interviews in which a well known science-fiction writer will be interviewed in depth, to draw out his thoughts on the field, on his craft, on his peers and contemporaries, his writing problems, personal background, likes and dislikes -- in short, a regular "profile." And there will be a big fan-meet-pro party at which free drinks will be serv and at which you are invited to meet and mingle with and get to know some of the science-fiction celebrities whose work you have been admiring for years, in relaxed informal surroundings. And then, of course, there will be the voting on and awarding of the coveted Hugo Awards. This is always one of the most exciting events of any convention -- the chance to vote for a book, story, artist or magazine you especially admire, as "best of the year." And there will be, I suppose, the customary costume ball. These are incredibly lavish affairs, and you should see the inventive, imaginative, elaborate costumes some people come up with! My wife Noel and I are fond of costume parties, and are already working on ours. How about you?  Exciting Complete Short Novel by Keith Laumer  by Hayden Howard  by Harry Harrison l by Christopher Anvil p Willy Ley brings new word on Atlantis -- book reviews by Algis ButkyM  --  many ether stories and features in the April Galaxy, on sale oead  IF  Novelette What's the right punishment when a madman commits murder -- if his lunacy is entirely his own fault? I T au Ccti is a small, cool yellow GO dwarf with four planets. Strictly speaking, none of the planets are habitable. Two are gas giants. The third inward has no air; the innermost has too much. That innermost world is about the size of Venus. With no oversized moon to strip away most of its air, it has an atmosphere like Venus's: thick and hot and corrosive. No human explorer would have marked it for colonization. But the ramrobots were not human. During the twenty-first and twenty-second centuries, the ramrobots explored most of what later came to be called Known Space. They were complexly programmed, but their mission was simple. Each was to find a habitable planet. Unfortunately they were programmed wrong. The designers didn't know it, and the UN didn't know it; but the ramrobots were programmed only to find a habitable point. Having located a world the right distance from the star to which it was sent, the ramrohot probe would drop and circle until it found a place at ground level which matched its criteria for atmospheric composition, average temperature, water vapor, et cetera. Then the ramrobot would beam its laser pulse back at the solar system, and the UN would respond by sending a colony slowboat. Unlike the ramrobots, the mancarrying slowboats could not use interstellar ramscoops. They had to carry their own fuel. It meant that the slowboats took a long time to get where they were going, and there were no round trip tickets. The slowboats could not turn back. So We Made It was colonized, because a ramrobot elected to settle in spring. Had it landed in summer or winter, when the planet's axis of rotation points fhrough its primary, Procyon, it would have sensed the fifteenhundred-mile-per-hour winds. So Jinx was colonized. Jinx, with a surface gravity of # and two habitable bands between the ocean, where there is too much air, and the Ends, where there is none at all. Jinx, the Easter Egg Planet, home of men and women who are five feet tall and five feet wide, the strongest bipeds in known space. But they die young, of heart trouble. So Plateau was colonized. For the innermost world of Tau Ceti is like Venus in size and atmosphere, save for one mountain. That straight-sided mountain is forty miles tall, and its nearly flat top is half the size of California. It rises out of the searing black calm at the planet's surface to the transparent atmosphere above; and that air can be breathed. Snow covers the peaks near the center of the Plateau, and rivers run lower down, rivers which tumble off the void edges of the Plateau into the shining mist below. The ramrobot landed there. And founded a world. T here was a time on that world when a murderer sought escape. Up from the Plateau on Mount Looldtthat came Douglas Hooker, rising like a star. He was the only occupant of a four-man exploration craft. Fifteen years ago he had stolen that ship from the UN, the government of Earth, and taken it to Plateau. He didn't dare return it. The laws of Earth were far stricter than those of Plateau. And he couldn't stay on Plateau, that was certain. Plateau would not have complained. Hooker was a cured maniac, a guaranteed model citizen. An autodoc had adjusted the chemistry of his body, canceling the biochemical cause of his insanity. Two years of psychoanalysis, hypnoanalysis and conditioning had attacked his memories, altering them in some cases, reducing or enhancing their importance in others. Conditioning had seen to it that he would never remain far from an autodoc; his chemistry would never again have the chance to go haywire in that particular fashion. But he'd done a terrible thing on Plateau. He couldn't stay. He couldn't bear the thought of someday facing Greg Loeffler. T he world below changed from a vast white plain to a round white ball. Hooker's fusion drive glowed hotter and bluer than any sun. He was using the hydrogen in his tank. Though his ship carried a model of mankind's first "safe" ramscoop, he was not yet moving fast enough to use interstellar hydrogen for fuel. When Plateau was in danger of being lost against the stellar background, he turned the ship toward Wunderland. He'd decided on Wonderland months ago, when he really began to believe that he would be well someday. Wunderland was small, of light gravity; a nice world, but distant from Earth. Wonderland's technology was always several decades behind the times. The Wunderlanders would appreciate an extra spaceship, especially one as modem as Hooker's. They might jail him -- though he had served a term on Plateau, concurrently with his cure. But they wouldn't kill him. And Hooker could wait out a jail sentence. His health was perfect. Though he was eighty-seven years old, he might have been twenty. Earth's medical sciences had become very good indeed. Men and woman walked the Earth in places they had trod three centuries earlier; and the medicine of their time was long obsolete. (Yet... look again. Twenty? Never. He acts scarred. Neither years nor scars show in ithe flesh, nor ftround the eyes, nor in them. But bebiiid the eyes, there are scars. It takes decades to form scars so deeply in the crevices of the brain that they show through to the surface.) Hooker turned toward Wunderland and set the autopilot. His motions were quicker and surer than they had been for a long time. He was leaving Plateau, and he left a weight behind. Now he could begin to forget. T Tours later, a second star rose k JL from the Plateau on Mount Lookitthat. It turned slowly, questing, like a hound sniffing out a trail. Then it fixed on Wunderland and began to accelerate.  II ctober, # A. D., San Francisco. He took the news as if he'd expected it. He looked at the human doctor for a long moment after she had stopped talking; and then he slumped, back and shoulders dropping, chin nearly touching his chest. He mumbled, "I always knew I was different." "Is that a crime, Ek)ug?" Dr. Doris Hahn might have been any age beyond thirty. She was small and oriental, and she had had that look of great wisdom long before she acquired the wisdom itself. "Seems it is," said Doug Hooker. He was eighteen years old, thin, with blue eyes and straw-colored hair. "I can't do an#hing about it, can I?" "Sure you can! Why, you need never know you've got it, any time during the rest of your life. There walking this world and others. And diabetics, and epileptics, and sohizoIF phrenics. Nobody knows the difference." 'Tiey know." "Well, yes." Doug looked the doctor in the eye. "Why? If they need never know, why tell tfiem? How will this affect me, doctor? What am I supposed to do about it?" She nodded. "You're right, of course. It will affect you in two ways. "First, the Fertility Board will probably not pass a potential paranoid. If you want to have a child, you'll have to do something so spectacular that the Board itself must recognize you as a genius. Something like inventing hyperdrive." Doug smiled at that. Hyperdrive was "The Moon on a platter." "Second," she said. "You must never be out of reach of an autodoc for more than a month, for the rest of your life. Do you understand? Up to now your parents have had this responsibility. Now you're an adult. You must get to a 'doc every month so that it can stabilize your metabolism. Your body is chemically unstable. Without antiparanoia substances you can go insane." "That's all?" "That's all. Best go every two weeks to give yourself some leeway." "I will," said Doug. He wanted to leave. The news had been as bad as he had expected, and he'd expected it for years. He had been born into a paranoid body. It was a thing he couldn't tell even to Greg. He wanted to leave, to hide somewhere, to lick his wounds. But -- "How bad is it. Doctor? I mean, what would happen to me if I missed six weeks instead of a montih?" "Ibe first time, very little. Your thinking processes would change a little, not enough to notice. When the 'doc readjusted you, you wouldn't notice that change either. But the second and third times would be worse. You see, Doug, a large part of being insane is having been insane. If you were paranoid for a year, a 'doc couldn't cure you. Your year of insanity would have formed habits. The 'doc would change your metabolism without changing your paranoid habits of thinking. You'd need a human psychotherapist." Doug wet his lips. He thought the question: What is it like to be paranoid? How does a paranoid think? He didn't want to know. He said, " 'By, Doctor." And he got up and left. He thought he heard Dr. Hahn call something after him, but he wasn't sure. une, #, Kansas City. At the age of thirty, Douglas Hooker thought he knew himself pretty well. He had long known that he was a man of habits; and so he had trained his habits. Each weekday he entered his office at just ten o'clock, and the first thing he did was to use the desk 'doc. He came in that Thursday morning at just ten o'clock, still wearing the smile with which he had hailed his good mornings at the other employees of Skyhook Enterprises. He hadn't seen Greg; but Greg was always early or late, usually early. Probably at work already. Doug IF sat, opened the panel in his desk, and inserted his hands. There were twin pricks in the balls of his middle fingers. The 'doc was taking a blood sample. Doug waited until the green light came on, then removed his hands. His nails gleamed. The desk 'doc was small; its repertoire was limited. It could not repair injuries or exercise small unused muscles, as could a full sized drugstore 'doc. It could detect infections and fight them, with widespectrum antibiotics; it could supply needed vitamins; it was a fine manicurist. It could stabilize Doug Hooker's unusual metabolism, using two phials of biochemicals stored in its innards. If it ran out of something, or if it sensed the presence of some medical anomaly which should be treated, it would flash a red light. Doug frowned at the papers in his In basket, then sighed and went to work. There was no sound from beyond his office; there was nothing to distract him. Yet he worked slowly. He couldn't concentrate. It was not spring fever; city men didn't get spring fever, living in a world which was mostly city. It was the feel of something impending. I t came at noon, with Greg Loeffler's voice in the intercom. "Doug? It's here. Drop whatever you're doing and come over." Doug put down half a sandwich and went out, walking fast. The bright morning sunlight made him blink. He took one of the carts in front of Admin and drove it across to Design. He was about to park in front when his eye caught a shadowy bulk standing four stories tall around to the side. He drove over. Greg stood waiting for him leaning one-armed against the huge truncated cone, grinning like a proud papa. "Isn't she gorgeous?" "No," said Hooker, for it was not. "Will it work?" "We'll sue if it doesn't. But we can't test it here. We'll have to ship it to the moon." "And then?" Doug felt adrenalin flooding his veins. All the decisions had been made two years ago; yet here was the tangible result, four stories tall, a decision on the verge of proving itself. And an ancient dream. The safe ramscoop. For centuries the ramrobots had been exploring space at just less than the spe of light, limitlessly fueled by hydrogen scooped from between stars in conical electromagnetic fields two hundred miles across. For centuries men had followed at a quarter of the speed of light, carrying their own fuel. A ramscoop's magnetic field would kill any chordate organism within three hundred miles. No shield had ever been developed which would protect a chordate and still let the ramscoop work. Until two years ago, when Moscow Motors had built -- this. There was a "dead pocket," a bubble in this generator's ramscoop field. A ship could be built into that bubble, and that ship would go anywhere, with a limitless fuel supply. Two years ago Skyhook Enterprises had bought the oontraot to build that ship. It was a UN project, wiith all the wealth of Earth beild it. Douig Hooker's father was still president when that decision was made; only a year ago he had turned the company over to Doug and gone off to become a Belter. For a year the ramship had been Doug's responsibility. He had given Greg Loeffler a free rein, not for the sake of a friendship fifteen years old but because Greg was a genius at design, "And then we fit the ramscoop to the ship and take her for a trip. The ship's been ready for months. That's what I was doing in April and May, Doug. On the Moon, examining the ship. It's ready. All you have to do is get the ramscoop there." Doug nodded. For a moment he almost envied Greg. The ship was Skyhook's project, Doug Hooker's project; but it was Greg's ship. Top to bottom. If it was successful it would conquer all of nearby space. He said, "How's Joanna?" Loeffler grinned proudly. "Out to here, and beautiful. Another month and she can go back to playing tennis. How's Clarisse?" "Fine, fine." "We haven't gotten together in awhile. How about dinner tonight? To celebrate the ramscoop." "Good. Where?" "Our place. You haven't even seen our new house." "That's true," Hooker said vaguely. He was not at his best in a social situation. He was uncomfortable in crowds and with people he didn't know. With Greg and Joanna he could relax; but not during work hours, not even with them. "Doug?" "Yah?" "You and Clarisse wece maixied long before I was. Why faaveii't you had children yet? Waitmg for Joaima and me to pioneer the field?" Hooker was tempted to say. Yah, why not let you take the risks first? But then he'd be asked again. So he told the truth. "The Fertility Board turned me down." "Oh?" Loeffler wasn't about to ask why, but he'd left the doer open if Hooker wanted a sympathetic ear. "Guess I'd better get to work," said Doug. "Will you be going to the moon to supervise the tests?" "If Skyhook pays the fare." "Slip me a requisition. And we'll see you tonight." Ill ear # A.D., The Rockies. They lay in full sunlight beside the pool, under Greg's weather dome. All three were wet, with water running off their bodies to form pools around them on the red tiles. The woman, Joanna, was a tall, solidly built brunette with lovely le. Of the men, Doug Hooker was still too thin for his height, and not well muscled; whereas Greg Loeffler had gynmasium muscles and a loafer's tan. They lay exhausted after the race across the pool. Outside it would be cold, though not yet freezing. In winter snow would surround the house and run melting from the weather dome. Greg's house was higji in the Rookies, (halfway up a cliff. By its deIF sign it seemed to have grown as an organic part of the cliff. A good part of it was inside the rock. Idly, with wistfulness but no pain, Doug thought Clarisse into existence alongside him. Golden hair in a stiff complex hairdo, deep all-over tan, she would have fallen asleep by now in the sunlight burning through the transparent weather dome. He hadn't seen her in ten years. She had remarried right after the divorce. Two years later she had been twice a mother. Wistfulness, but no pain. She'd got no alimony, but she'd tried, and that had canceled the pain of losing her. Her ghost-image died, and Doug turned over on his back. "We'll be leaving in a month," said Joanna. There was a touch of regret in her voice. "You're out of your minds," said Doug. Greg got up on an elbow. "Not at all. The future isn't on Earth any more, Doug -- " "Where is it, on Plateau? Any other world. I'd still say you were crazy. But teeny little Plateau? In five generations it'll be as crowded as Earth!" "Then you admit Earth's crowded." "Well, yah, but that's the price you pay for civilization." "I won't pay. I'm leaving." Greg was enjoying himself. He had rehearsed the argument over and over in past months. "By the time Plateau gets really crowd, there'll be so many colony planets that anyone can take his pick. Meanwhile, Plateau is a nice place to be." "Suppose they're hoked?" "They aren't." "And why risk it anyway? A dozen light-years in a four-man ship! Suppose a meteor -- " "Suppose a goblin? For Pete's sake, E)oug! I designed these ships myself. They're foolproof." Doug turned on his belly, scowling. Even he didn't know why he kept fighting a lost cause. Greg was going, and Joanna was going; their oldest daughter, Marcia, was going, with her husband. The only reason Greg kept up his side of the argument was the hope that Doug would change his mind and come along. Which Doug would not. But the thought of Greg and Joanna leaving filled him with name less dread. "Is the ship ready yet?" "Yes. Since yesterday. We could leave any time." "Not until I inspect it," said Doug. "You promised." "So I did. How about tomorrow? I'll give you the key." "Good." S kyhook Enterprises had built that ship. By now hundreds like it were scattered across the sky, anywhere within fifteen light-years of the solar system. Which meant that Earth's information was up to fifteen years out of date; but as far as anyone knew, no Skyhook ramship had ever failed. Skyhook was now designing a bigger ramship, big enough to carry a thousand colonists in stasis. But the four-man Skyhook exploring model was the only ramship now flying. It came in three parts, easy to connect or to disconnect for inspection. Ramscoop, lifesystem, drive. And boosters, but boosters didn't count. They didn't count because they had been used for centuries. Rockets they were, containing helium compressed to within an inch of its life. Autopilots would guide them down after they had lifted Greig's ship (to where he could safely use the fusion motor. Hooker ignored them, as he would have ignored a bicycle in the cargo hold. Too simple, too foolproof. He ignored the ramscoop because he wouldn't have understood it. He ignored the fusion drive for both reasons. If there were a flaw in either of them, he would not find it. His only chance was in the lifesystem. It was big and roomy, that lifesystem, even for four people. Most flatlanders did not have that mudh room in their homes. But a claustrophobic ramship passenger could not step outside for a breath of air. The lifesystem was a cylinder with the central core running through it, the central core which joined the ramscoop to the fusion drive. Somewhere in the control panel were emergency switches which would blow the core apart to release the lifesystem as a separate unit, to fall through space awaiting an unlikely rescue. There were two master bedrooms, soundproofed, with locks, very private. There "was a gymnasium with muscle-stretchers for use in ship's gravity or in free fall, with sunlight tubes and masseur couches and a steam bath. There was a small dining room with (the kitchen controls set in one wall. Hooker walked the ship as if he were afraid of it. He was. He still wasn't sure why. There was the autodoc, the most complex ever built. It would replace its own biochemicals, its own plastiskin, its own artificially grown organ replacements; all this automatically, from materials culled from the ship's waste collectors. It could cure anything. In theory it could keep a man young and healthy indefinitely. Skyhook Enterprises had not built this beauty. Moscow Motors, that industrial giant subsidized by the subas part of the deal that won Skyhook the ship contract. Hooker knew autodocs. He inspected the coffin and the machinery that fed it and found no flaw. H e went through the kitchen, as much of it as he understood. This too turned waste into food. The processes were infernally complicated; but any chemical process can be reversed, given sufficient sophistication and sufficient power. The ship's power came straight from a fusion drive with unlimited fuel. The air plant was the simplest part of the ship. Hooker didn't even look at it. By the time he got around to it he was bone tired. He flopped on one of the beds and stared at the softly glowing ceiling. As far as he could tell, there was nothing wrong with the ship. Nothing. What was the point in looking? IP Any flaw Douglas Hooker, the executive, could recognize, could probably be fixed in five minutes. They were going; they were practically on their way now. Greg, and Joanna, and Lisa, and -- he'd forgotten the name of Lisa's husband. But why should he try to stop them? He had plenty of other friends. Didn't he? He had conjured up eleven names and was trying hard for a twelfth, when it occurred to him that all eleven were people he had met through Greg and Joanna. All but two, and he hadn't seen them since Clarissa flew to Vegas, leaving him a wedding cake on which the wax bride and bridgegroom stood facing outward on opposite sides of the bottom layer. Nine people, then, whom he saw only at Joanna's parties and "talk nights." He had never made friends easily. Strangers made him uncomfortable. He kept wondering what they thought of him. Even friends -- there was a barrier between him and everyone else, and the barrier was a secret. As far as he knew, two people on Earth knew that Hooker was a potential paranoid. There had been three; but his father had gone to the Belt to start life over, probably thinking that the more lenient Belt fertility laws would permit him to have a second child after seven years had made him a citizen. He had lasted two years. He had smoked, and his dashboard included an ashtray. One day, during the last seconds of a landing approach to some unnamed rock, he had somehow used the attitude jets in such a way as to spill ashes out of the tray and into hds eyes. The rock had smashed hi sight bubble and his faceplate. And now there were two people who knew Doug's secret, but both were doctors. Clarissa had not known. She would have talked. His secret stopped his mouth and slowed his conversation and made it innocuous. It kept him from getting drunk, for he feared his tongue would loosen. No man knows his fellow until he has seen him drunk; and no man had seen Doug Hooker drunk. He tried to face it squarely. Doug and Joanna were taking his social life with them, to Plateau. Why not regard it as a challenge? Hooker rolled off the bed and left the ship. He would tell the Loefflers that it was perfect -- foolproof. When they were gone he would make new friends, create his own social world. He had wrapped himself around his work for far too long. But he was sixty-one years old, and his habits were developed. A ugust, #, Kansas City. It happened thus : Every six months a man came to service Douglas Hooker's desk 'doc. Paul Jurgenson was his name. He had been servicing 'docs for most of his life; 'docs of all kinds, from the huge multiple-patient emergency 'docs at aerospaceports to the desk-sized 'docs installed in planes and short-hop spacecraft, used by executives the world over. The work never bored him, for Jurgenson good ait his job. He came on a Thursday, the last day of the working week, and the last Thursday of August. As usual, Doug Hooker went home at noon, to give him room to work. Jurgenson took the 'doc apart and began to examine the parts. He shook his head sadly when he found both of the two special-mix vials that close to empty. Hooker didn't know it, but Jurgenson was the third man on Earth who knew his secret. He had only guessed it, of course, but the guess was close enough to a certainty. You can't hide baldness from your barber. Jurgenson filled the vials, still saddened. Mr. Hooker always sent him a twenty-five mark bill for a Christmas present. (A firm handled Christmas presents of that nature for Hooker, remembering for him, but Jurgenson didn't know that.) Now it seemed that Mr. Hooker was using more antiparanoia than ever. That meant trouble in his life. Jurgenson knew that from long experience. He wished he could do something. He replaced the hypo needles as usual, and the vials of pure alcohol, and the vitamin ampKules and the testosterone. He checked various circuits and replaced two wires; not that they were really ready to fail, but you never know. The manicure implefhents were self-replacing. Jurgenson frowned at the 'doc for a moment, listening to an instinct he trusted. It must have told him right, for he closed the 'doc. Then he unscrewed the red and green bulbs to look at the dates on their bases. They were ten years old. In those days men built to last. There were laws. But ta years was old enough, even for bulbs which mighf # Ibirty. Jurgenson dropped them in the waste shute and replaced them from his kit. He tripped appropriate relays and saw that both bulbs lit. He left, wavii to Mr. Hooker's personal secretary. They had known each other for close to half ,a century and never done more than say hello and good-by to each other. Miss Peterson was a beauty. But Jurgenson thought his wife was too good for him and had long feared she would find out. He never philandered. ecember, #. Hooker entered the outer office. "Hi, fans," he said, as he had said each working day for... he didn't know how long. The answer, from several people at once, was a jumbled chorus. Hooker entered his own office at just ten o'clock. The In basket was full. Hooker frowned at it as he shoved his hands into the 'doc. Was he making a mistake, cutting down on Skyhook's commitments? It made paperwork simpler, and thus saved money. But -- sometimes Hooker felt that Skyhook was stagnating. Other than the colony model ramships, a few of which were now in use for the UN, Skyhook had not pioneered anything in nearly twenty years. The Loefflers must be on Plateau by now. Had they sent him a laser message? If so, it would not get here for twelve years. IF What was wrong with the 'doc? It should have released him by now. Doug withdrew his hands. There was no resistance; no fluids dripped from his fingers; his nails shone. Oh, nuts, he said subvocally. The green light's burned out. He made a mental note to call Jurgenson. But he never did. It had never happened before; there were no habits to help him. And Jurgenson would be here in February. Hooker simply got used to the absence of a green light. He knew to within seconds when the 'doc was through with him. It was the red light which had failed. The red bulb's filament had been dead for months. It had snapped and died when Jurgenson clicked it off. IV bruary, #. The change came slowly. At first Doug noticed nothing. Then, as weeks passed, it seemed to him that his thinking was becoming clearer. He didn't know why, but he was becoming more intelligent. These things that troubled him... they had one linking cause. Of course Aey must. All he had to do was find it. His employees came at ten and went home at four, usually with Doug Hooker striding with them toward the parking lot, trying to look anonymous, returning good-bys if they were given. On Thursday the first of February Hooker did not leave. He nodded when his personal secretary told him it was after hours; he smiled emptily at her when she said good night. And then he sat. The world did not intrude. The office was soundproof; its light did not depend on the sim; its false windows looked upon alien worlds, and on each a Skyhook ramship was landing. Impressive, for visitors. So Hooker could ignore the passage of time. He thought of things that had gone wrong with his life. He had no friends. He had no hobbies. He'd thought of taking one up; but it turned out that he hated games. Lxsing irritated him, and he always lost interest before he could become good enough to win. His life was his work and the Palace. The Palace was a house of ill repute, with a reputation for being very good and very expensive. If only Hooker had had the ability to play... but that he had never had. He went to the Palace when his gonads told him to, and he left when they quieted. Most of the girls could not have told you his name. His work was all habit. He slid through life as in a dream, and the dream was a dull one of easy defeat For a long time it had been that way. It had started... When Clarisse left him? His teeth bared in savagery. If she were the cause he would track her down wherever she hid! And the children for whom she had deserted him... No. He could remember periods of enjoyment, brief flashes of sunlight in his life, and some of them had happened since Clarisse. TTiat Christmas party at the office, decades ago? Someone's idea had sparked Uieiii all, and they had stayed until three in the morning, using plant facilities to build a robot. The body had been built of emergency foam plastic from the failsafe systems in a ramship. It couldn't have weighed more than twenty pounds, excluding another twenty pounds of motors, but it had stood twenty feet tall, blank-visaged and horrifying, with huge flat feet. Yes, it had been Greg; his idea, and mostly his suggestions. They had turned it loose on #th pedwalk downtown, walking east in the westbound lane, so that it stood in one place, marking time. Skyhook employees had waited four hours for the seven o'clock rush hour, in an automated restaurant above the walk. The panic had been a beautiful thing. Loeffler? Sure, Loeffler! He'd waited until Doug's dependence on him was complete. Then he had left. So diabolically simple. Doug had not had a moment of real enjoyment since. Hooker's lips pulled back and away from his teeth. His nostrils flared and turned white. So simple! Why hadn't he seen it before? Since high school it had always been Loeffler, blocking every chance he'd ever had to make his own friends and his own way of life. A decades-old plot which had not come to fruition until Doug was sixty-one years old. Now, now that he was finally alert, Doug could see the bones of the plan. The ramship had been part of it; it made the business so rich and so complex that it took all of Doug's time to handle it. A very neat trap. Had Claiisse been invtved? Perhaps. There was no way to tell. But -- Greg had introduced him to Clarisse, hadn't he? Doug settled back in his chair. His face became almost calm. Clarisse, wherever she was, did not count. She had been a pawn; but Greg Loeffler was the king. Greg Loeffler must die. It was midnight before Doug decided what to do. His secretary was long gone; which puzzled him until he realized what time it was. But he could do the work himself. He knew how to handle a tape. He dictated an application to buy one ramship at standard prices. Purpose: to leave Earth. (No point in saying where he intended to go. Loeffler might have left spies anywhere. ) He put the tape in an envelope and dropped it in a mailbox on his way home. Greg had had his answer in three days. By Monday, Doug would own a Skyhook ship. And then... T Ti, fans," Doug Hooker called A i as he entered the outer office. Ranks of secretaries returned the greeting. They noticed nothing odd about him. He always walked that way, eyes straight ahead, walk fast and slightly hurried, rebuffing friendship before it was offered. He entered his office, put his hands in the 'doc, waited for an estimated two minutes, withdrew them. Have to call Jurgenson, he thought, and then sneered at the triviality of the thought. He had better things to do. Where was that UN envelope? There. He opened it, took out the credit-card-sized tape and inserted it in his desk player. IF The refusal jarred him to his bones. He played it again, refusing to accept it; and again. It was true. He'd been turned down. The implications were terrifying. Doug had had three days to think things over. With every hour the nature of Loeffler's plot had become clearer... and h involved more people. Loeffler must have had an enormous amount of help. But Doug had never dreamed that the UN was part of the plot! He'd have to be very careful. He might have given himself away already.  F ebruary #th, East New York. Somebody had stolen a Skyhook ramship. The call came shortly after noon, from a lovely, frightened woman who said she was the president's personal secretary. "It was Mr. Hooker's ship," she explained. "He was thinking of designing an improved model. He ordered a complete working mode! of the ship they're using now. This morning it was gone!" Loughery asked, "Did the model have gas boosters?" He was thinking, Of course it had boosters. It couldnt take off without them, not without fusing Kansas City. But maybe a truck hauled it away? "Yes, it had boosters." "Why?" "Mr. Hooker wanted it complete in every detail." "Oh, Lord." Loughery rubbed the back of his head. The idiot! Wanted a complete model, did he? Now there was a fusion ship loose somewhere in the solar system. Cut a few safety relays, turn off the fusion shield, and any fusion ship becomes an exploding fusion bomb. "We'll send someone over right away. Is Mr. Hooker there?" "He didn't arrive this morning." "Well, give me his home address. And if he shows up, have him call here immediately." The pieces began to fall together. First, Skyhook. The area was well guarded; it would have been difficult for anyone to get in without being spotted. There was no human guard, but any unauthorized entry would have been photographed a dozen times. There would have been alarms. Second, the Belt called. Several solar system and a political power equal to that of the UN. They were furious. A fusion ship had left Earth without proper notification and was now' boring through space toward the system's edge, paying no attention to laser calls. Loughery promised payment of damages. It was all he could do. Nobody found Hooker. If he was at home, he wasn't answering phone calls. The gas boosters found their way home. Loughery's men took charge of them immediately, inspecting them for clues. Re-entry had not burned the fingerprints off their shiny surfaces. The fingerprints were Hooker's, some of them. Loughery filed a request for a warrant to search Hooker's house. It began to look as if Hooker had stolen his own ship. On the afternoon of the twentyseventh, somebody found Hooker's request to buy a ramship. It had been turned down for several good reasons. For one, Hooker had named nedither destination nor purpose. For another, the UN was careful about passing fusion drives out to anyone who might ask; whereas Hooker -- Loughcry felt the hair stir on the back of his neck. Hooker was a potential paranoid. urgenson called that evening. By then Loughery was in Kansas City. He went right over to interview Jurgcnson personally. "He was using too much of this guck," said Jurgcnson. He indicated two phials, both bone dry. "That's bad. I got other people who use stuff like this, people who need special guck or something goes wrong in their heads. When they got troubles, they use more guck than usual." "But there's a warning light." Jurgenson wrung his hands. "It's my fault. I put in a bad light It worked when I tried it. I can't understand why it went had." "Who was Hooker's doctor?" "Human? I don't know. Miss Peterson might." Lxughery asked Miss Peterson. By then the search warrant had come through. What privacy there was on a crowded Earth was highly regarded; search warrants were not passed around like advertising posters. Hooker's home turned out to be the top of a skyscraper in downtown Kansas City. Hooker had left a note, a long one. It said that, since Hooker had no friends and no particular purpose in life, he had decided to spend the rest of his life in a project all his own. He was going to try to reach the edge of the universe. He did not expect to succeed. The ramship would keep him alive indefinitely, but indefinitely was not forever. Yet he intended to try. It was a sanely spoken tape. Syntax was in order; Hooker's voice seemed calm. Hooker's expressed purpose was the only crazy thing about it. But Hooker was guaranteed crazy, wasn't he? Loughery called the Bdt again. Hooker's ship was well out of the inner system, far enough so that the Belt could stop monitoring him; there was little chance of his deadly drive flame crossing anyone's path before it dissipated. Yes, he was headed roughly toward the galactic rim. It checked, thought Loughery. Hooker would have been better advised to head straight out along the galactic axis; there was less junk to get in his way. But perhaps he hadn't thought of that. The excitement began to settle. Loughery had other problems. But there was one last thing he could do about the Hooker problem, and eventually he thought of it. "Keep a monitor on Hooker," he told the Belt Political Section. "We'll pay the standard fee. We want to know if he turns back, or if he changes course toward some inhabited world." And that would do it, he thought. Eventually Hooker would use the ship's 'doc. That simple. It would cure him. Then he would either turn back to Earth, to face a charge of IF stealing a fusion motor, or he would move on to one of the colonies. Probably the latter; stealing a fusion plant was a capital crime on Earth. But they could deal with him, offer him amnesty for the prompt return of the ship. Three weeks later the word came. The actinic spark that was Hooker's drive had definitely shifted toward Tau Ceti. Loughery had to admit that Plateau was a good choice. Plateau had suffered badly from the organ bank problem, in the two centuries before alloplasty, the science of putting foreign materials in the human body, had overtaken the techniques of organic transplant. All the inhabited worlds had gone through that stage. Its worst feature was that there was only one way to get the most important organic transplants. On Plateau a small ruling class had held the power of life and death over its citizens. Life, because with unlimited access to the organ banks one could live centuries. Death, because any crime could be made a capital crime whenever the organ banks ran short. The citizens would not complain. They wanted to live centuries. Then alloplasty had caught up. Now there were no organ banks at all on Plateau, and no capital punishment. Loughery sent a laser to Plateau, warning them that a stolen ship was due to land there. He wasn't sure which would get there first, the laser or the ship. After all, Ramships were fast. V M arch, #I A. D., ship's time. The ship flew itself, of course. All Doug had to do was take it below the plane of the Belt, leave it alone for a couple of weeks, then aim for Tau Ceti. The two weeks were misdirection. With the note he had left, they might convince the police that he was going off to nowhere and would never bother them again. He kept busy, watching for goldskin ships -- Belt police; reading instruction booklets over and over, getting familiar with his machines; and it wasn't until he had passed Pluto's orbit that he began to relax. Nobody was after him, as far as he could tell. Not that they could have done anything; you can't stop a ship in space. You can only destroy it. But he was reassured. He had broken free of his long bondage. And now... the long wait. Tau Ceti was eleven point nine lightyears away. It would take less subjective time than that, with the velocities he would eventually reach; but still... He frowned. He hadn't been in a 'doc in some time. It would be stupid to get sick and die just when vengeance was within his grasp. He climbed into the 'doc tank and went to sleep. The 'doc found it necessary to make drastic changes in his metabolism. Hooker felt very strange when he woke. The strangeness seemed to be in his thinking, and that made it horrible. He felt slow, stupid. He could no longer remembawhy he wanted to kill Greg. He remembered only that his lifelong friend had done him a great wrong. He thought of turning back. But he couldn't do that; he'd end in the organ banks for stealing this ship. Should he try another colony world? It was a confusing question. His mind was full of confusing questions. But it was obvious that Mount Lookitthat was his best bet, regardless of what happened when he got there. Plateau was the only world of Man which did not impose the death penalty. If they decided he'd committed a crime, he'd get medical treatment. His head buzzed. Perhaps he needed medical treatment? But the ship's 'doc could do anything. He went on. And as the weeks passed, a strange thing happened. He remembered his grudge against Greg Loeffler. And he realized something that sent cold chills of rage through him. They'd booby-trapped the 'doc I No, it was worse than that. Somehow, long ago, Greg Loeffler and his minions had managed to booby-trap every 'doc on Earth. For all of his life. Hooker had been using the 'docs. And each time he did, the 'docs had made alterations in his mind and body to keep him docile. What could he do? His very life depended on the 'doc! It took him a few days to get over his sense of panic; or perhaps he merely got used to it. Then he went to work. There was a thick instruction booklet for repairing the 'doc. Hooker memorized it. When he felt he was ready, he began to disconnect things. It was difficult to decide what to cut out. Finally he tackled it from the other direction. What to leave running? Anesthetics, of course, and the luxuries: manicures, haircuts, massage. Vitamins, antibiotics, all diagnostic machinery, surgical repair... except in the region of the head. He didn't dare leave that! Anticholesterol, synthetic blood components, alloplasty components and insertion tools... He finished in two months. The 'doc should be incapable of anything that could damage his mind. But still he was afraid of it. He tried it anyway. He was insane, definitely; but not stupid. When h woke up he knew that the 'doc was safe. ear # A.D., Plateau. Plateau was a silver ball hanging serene in the heavens. Hooker stopped nearby, not too near, and not in any particular orbit. He began to scan the surface. Where was Mount Lookitthat? He couldn't find it. He turned ship to circle the planet... an irritating delay for an impatient man. Then he thought of turning on his radio. He'd turned it off because Plateau's voices of authority kept trying to tell him what to do. Now he could use their directional signal. " -- Calling Douglas Hooker. Douglas Hooker, will you please answer? Do you need help? The United Nations claims you are flying a stolen ship. Is this true? You will need re-entry craft to land. Are you able to establish an orbit so that IF they can find you? Douglas Hook -- " Hooker frowned down at the silver field in his 'scope screen. That was where Mount Lookitthat ought to be, according to his directional finder. So where was it? Overcast, of course. By water vapor. There must be fog there, or rain. Hooker smiled and moved in. He dropped fast into the mist beyond the void edge. If there were finders on him he was caught; but what could they do about him? They couldn't approach him with anything manned. His ramscoop field was as deadly as earlier models, save for that "dead pocket." All he had to do was turn it on. He heard nothing on the radio. They weren't sending in his direction. Good. And he was somewhere off the void edge of Mount Lookitthat. He'd passed through Loeffler's laser message just about a year ago, ship's time. It was mealymouthed friendliness, all of it, obviously designed to lull Hooker's suspicions. All the same, it was a bad mistake on Loeffler's part. It included pictures of his house and environs.  Loeffler's house resembled his old home on Earth. It was large, almost ostentatiously large, and it seemed designed to fit its surroundings, as if it had grown from the land. Loeffler no longer lived on a cliff. He bad chosen a spot in hilly country, set a few hundred feet back from the void edge in one direction and from a river in another. The river had etched itself a canyon which led to the void edge. Hooker kept his ship submerged in the mist. His drive must be giving off a hellish glow, but he hoped he was far enough down for the mist to hide it. He angled his ship toward the invisible Mount Lookitthat and moved slowly in that direction. Look for a waterfall. It might not show at this level. It might turn to spray and evaporate high above. Something black and formless loomed in the lesser blackness. Simultaneously, Hooker's radar beeped. Something black and huge, indefinitely huge... Hooker backed ship and raised the thrust. The ship shot up. Up and up, and the mist began to thin... and Hooker had his first look at the side of Mount Lookitthat. It seemed infinite. It went on and on, up and down and sideways, like the surface of a world tilted from horizontal to vertical. (After four hours of hopeless searching, the pilot of Plateau's first colony slowboat had seen Mount Lookitthat rising suddenly out of an endless white furry plain. "Lookitthat!" he'd said, in the voice of one punched in the stomach, four hundred years ago.) Hooker took his ship straight up the fluted side. Mist boiled and churned below him. Now he got his first look at Plateau's big, soft sun. Tau Ceti was smaller and cooler than Sol, so that Plateau had to huddle closer for warmth, making the star look bigger from Plateau's surface. But Hooker had been traveling for more than four years of ship's time. He'd all but forgotten what a sun looked like. IF Above and to the left, a fwaterfall. He angled that way. The ship shot past tihe void edge. Suddenly most of Plateau was below him. Doug cut his thrust and looked around. He snarled. He'd picked the wrong waterfall. There were no spacecraft; but he could see cars all across the land, all colors, most of them staying near the ground. There were houses, and all were large. Loeffler's house must be about average in size. Sure, Hooker rebuked himself. Theyve got more room. Did he plan that too? Hiding from me... Could that be it? Hooker dropped. It was a great rounded house, like an enormous boulder with picture windows built into it. There was a river... and it was close to the void edge... That was it. But was Loeffler there? It didn't matter. Hooker backangled his ship and came to a stop over the house. His drive licked down. The house erupted in flame. Hooker laughed. He shouted, "You won't use that as a hiding place! Are you dead, Greg? If you're not, I'll find you wherever you hide!" Still laughing, he increased thrust and rose into the sky. Below him was a boiling lava pit. He needed a city. A city would have records. He could search them to find where Loeffler was now. But he'd have to be careful. Loeffler had taken over Earth. Hooker didn't know how long it had taken him. But he'd been on Plateau more than twelve years; he must have made some progress here. Hooker's radio sounded. It was a sound Hooker had never heard before. It was very loud, and very terrible. Hooker reached to turn off the radio. His arms stopped halfway. He couldn't move thenu He settled back in his seat. A strange, peaceful expression spread across his face. Presently a voice began to give orders, and Hooker obeyed. # T ucky he had his radio on."L' The second man nodded. "He could have wiped out this whole world. Land him, will you? I'll call the hospital." "Whose house was that?" "I don't know. Let's hope nobody was in it. Will you please get him down? If it wears off he'll turn off the radio, and then where will we be?" Y ear # A. D., Hospital, Plateau. They quit work at five o'clock. Hooker, was exhausted. The chain gang had been planting trees where a generation of special mold had made sufficient soil to support then!. Machines did some of the work; but mainly the chain gang used their hands. Planting trees gave Hooker a feeling of accomplishment. Even as president of Skyhook he had never felt so useful. He was bone tired until dinner arrived, and then he was ravenous. By the time he finished dinner he was no longer tired. He went to his room and read until eight o'clock. ychotherapy was to be at eight. "I've been thinking," he told Ike doctor. "I want to know if I Aslled anyone." "Why?" Wor formed a bottleneck in Hooker's throat. It had stopped him before. He never knew how to answer that particular question. This time he forced some kind of an answer out. "I want to know how guilty I am!" "You know what you were trying to do. Whatever you did is done. How will feeling guilty help anything?" "I don't know. But if I'm not supposed to feel guilty, why am I in prison? And don't tell me it's a hospital. I know it's a hospital. It's also a prison." "Of course it is." He'd killed four people. He'd tilled Joanna Loeffler, and her daughter and son-in-law and grandson. Greg Loeffler had been elsewhere. They waited a year to tell Hooker. VI Y ear # A. D., between stars. "Doug!" Hooker jumped. The radio yelled, "Doug, this is Greg. Answer me!" Hooker hesitated only a moment. This was what he had dreaded. Loeffler must have a com laser on him, with a directional signal in it. Hooker told the autopilot to follow k back. The radio didn't wait. "Answer me, damn you! You know what I want!" What was with Greg? How could he possibly expect Hooker to answer immediately? It would take hours for Hooker's com laser to cross the gap to Plateau. Hooker shifted nervously. The autopilot beeped, and he said, "I'm here, Greg. I didn't want to talk to you. I left Plateau because I couldn't face you. You mxist know how sorry I am for what happened." Greg's voice didn't wait. "Doug! Why don't you answer? Is it because you think I'm going to kill you?" Hooker came bolt upright in his chair. OhI Suddenly it was appallingly clear. Loeffler, shouting into a com laser, forgetting the lightspeed gap, was not a sane Loeffler. Tau Ceti was a white flare in the stern scope. Wonderland's sun was too dim to see from here. Hooker turned on his ramscoop field: a complex process, most of which would be handled by the auto-pilot. Then he got up and began to pace. "You cowardly, murdering -- Loeffler's speech turned profane. His accusations, justified at first, became wildly imaginative. Hooker listened, trying to gauge the depth of Greg's insanity. It was one more item on his burden of guilt. Why didn't somebody stop him? A com laser was too powerful not to leak. Plateau radios must be picking this up. And where had he gotten a com laser? The Plateau station was closed IF to all but qualified personnel. But Greg owned a ship with a com laser... A ship just like this one. Almost calmly, Hooker sat down at the control board. He connected the autopilot screen to the stern scope. Tau Ceti glowed brightly off center. Hooker centered it, then began to enlarge it. The screen turned yellowish-white, with a blue point moving off-screen near the top. Hooker centered that, enlarged it. A deep blue flare with a black dot in the center. Loeffler was coming after him. L oeffler's hoarse voice stopped suddenly. Then it giggled. "Tricked you," it said, suddenly calm. The stem scope turned deep red. Damn, thought Hooker. He did trick me. The scope screen would not transmit more light than human eyes could bear; but there was a dial to register the light falling on the scope. That dial registered maximum. Loeffler was using his com laser as a weapKn. At maximum power it could easily have blanketed Earth's solar system with a clearly read signal. But Loeffler was firing it at an object only light-hours distant. He could kill me, Hooker thought. He could do it. It would't be fast. Loeffler was firing from behind, at that part of Hooker's ship which was built to stand fusion flame applied for years. But eventually things would melt. Greg was jubilant. "I'm going to burn you, Doug! Just like you burned Joanna and Lisa and Tom and little Greg! But slower! Slower, you -- " And there was more profanity. Needles were rising. Hull temperature indicators, power consumption meters, climbed toward pink zones nobody had ever expected them to touch. Doug Hooker rubbed his eyes. He waited for an inspiration, and none came. Needles touched their pink zones. Bells rang, and Doug turned them off. After a bit he left the control room and went downstairs and lay down in the masseur couch. Hes going to kill me. The thought seemed far away, drowned in the groaning comfort of the massage. All I wanted was a new life. I wanted to go away and start over. The couch was a hard, enveloping caress. He won't let me. He wants to kill me. And who has a better right? Let him kill me. No. It was difficult to struggle out of the couch, for the couch was not finished with him. During a massage one must be in a defeatist frame of mind. Otherwise one tenses; one's automatic defenses take over. But somehow Doug pulled himself free of the gentle, grasping embrace, and somehow he got upstairs to the control room. He was still covered with massage oil. A man attacked has the right to defend himself. I paid for my crime. Doug sat down in the control chair, used a key to unlock a panel. There were override switches underneath. One turned off the ship's alarm bells; one allowed excess power in the ship's circuitry; three others set up the sequence that would blow the ship apart if the drive or the ramscoop failed. Everything under the panel was an override switch for the ship's automatic safety precautions. Doug flipped one switch and closed the panel. Then he twisted a dial hard over, as far as it would go. His com laser was already fixed on Loeffler's ship. Now it would bum. Hooker turned off his fusion drive to reduce the heat pouring in at the ship's stern. Now he had a good chance. He was firing his laser at Loeffler's nose, where there was less protection. The massive, almost invulnerable bulk of the ramscoop would absorb most of the beam; but the lifesystem was wider than the ramscoop, and it would catch a lot of light. Eventually its walls would melt. Hooker would kill Loeffler before Loeffler could kill Hooker. Doug went back to the masseur couch. He felt very tired. T he lifesystem became hot. Unbearably hot. When Doug felt he could stand it no longer he went upstairs to throw another override switch. When he had done that the cooling equipment would get more power, and his lifesystem would be cool until relays or busbars burned out. At the control panel he found that it wasn't necessary. The ruby glow was gone from the rear scope screen. Loeffler's laser had burned out or lost its target. Loeffler's ship was still there, still following. Hooker started his drive and turned off his laser. He was on his way to Wunderland, with Loeffler following. ear #, between stars. Turnover. Loeffler was still behind him. Hooker had long been convinced that Loeffler's com laser was burned out. He had used his own com laser, but Loeffler never answered. And now he used it again. "Greg," he said. "You've been following me for three and a half years. I assume that you want justice on Wunderland. You're entitled to state your case there. But now it's turnover time, in case you hadn't noticed, and I'm turning around. Please do the same." And he used the gyros to swing the ship. He was as nearly sane as a 'doc could make him. In three and a half years he had almost forgotten about Loeffler, or at least to accept him as an endurable evil. And there was this: Loeffler had a 'doc. He must have used it. A 'doc would not keep a man sane under undue stress, but Hooker could at least hope that Loeffler would use the law instead of weapons. The law might punish Hooker, despite double jeopardy laws, but it would also protect him. He fell tail first toward Wunderland. Now a point of light showed in the front scope. Hooker watched for it to turn. It was small, that IF dot of light; for Loeffler had fallen far behind in the race toward Wunderland... Hooker's ramscoop was taking part of Loeffler's fuel, since Loeffler was in his shadow. Hours after turnover, the point of light moved. Loeffler had gotten his message... or seen hinri turn. The point of light became a line of light, then swung back to a point. It still had a dot in the center. "No," said Hooker. A black dot in the center of a blob which showed mostly blue. "No. You're going the wrong way. Turn around, you idiot!" The ships were diving nose-on at each other. Hurriedly Hooker swung his ship around.  should have known, he told himself. Loeffler wants to ram. When I accelerate to the side, so does he, because otherwise I might get around him. But he won't let me slow down. If I get within three hundred miles of his ramscoop... It was a stalemate. Loeffler couldn't catch Hooker, and Hooker couldn't escape Loeffler. But only Loeffler had the power to give up the game. ear # A. D., Plateau. Loughery came to Plateau in a colonist ramship. It was a common practice in those days for Earth to finance one-way trips to the colony worlds, simply to get them off the planet. On the sixtieth birthday Loughery, having had enough of being a UN official, took the UN up on its offer. He could have chosen any of the colony worlds. He chose Plateau because the social structure fascinated him. When he had learned enough he intended to become a lawyer. "That won't be easy," the mountaineer cop told him. Loughery had braced the guy as he was coming off duty and offered to buy him drinks and dinner in return for information. "The mountaineer laws aren't as difficult as Earth's, at least from what I hear, but you may have trouble understanding the ethics behind them." "I gather a mountaineer is a Plateau dweller." "Right. Like a crashlander comes from We Made It and a flatlander comes from Earth." "About the ethics." "Hmmm." The cop scratched the back of his head. "Tell you what. The records building is still open. Let's walk over, and I'll find you a few examples." He had to use three electronic keys to get to the files. Once inside, he looked around him, lips puckered judiciously. "I'll start you with an easy one," he said. And he pulled a tape out of a drawer filled with similar tapes. "Let's run this." They played it. "Hooker," said Loughery. "I remember him. Dammit, I'm the one who sent out the warning. I thought the 'doc had cured him. I'm as guilty as he is." The cop looked very coldly at Loughery. "Could you have stopped him?" "No. But I could have stressed the warning." "As long as there was a warning. Now, do you understand the logic behind Hooker's sentence?" "Fm afraid not. He gottwo years imprisonment for negligent homicide, with simultaneous psychotherapy and conditioning. Psychotherapy is a lost art on Earth, by the way. I don't question why he only got two years, but why negligent homicide?" "There's the crux. He wasn't guilty of murder, was he?" "Fd say yes." "But we say he was insane. That's a legitimate plea." "Then why was he punished?" "For letting himself become insane. He knew he was a potential paranoid; all he had to do was stay in reach of a working autodoc. And he didn't. Four people died. Negligent homicide." Loughery nodded. His head was spinning. "What isn't here on the tape is the follow-up. Loeffler tried to kill Hooker." "Oh?" "Hooker left in a ramship. Lxeffler went after him. They had a big duel with com lasers. Now, let's suppose Hooker had won that battle and killed Lxeffler. What then?" "Self-defense." "Not at all. Murder." "But why?" "Lxeffler was insane. And he was insane as a direct result of Hooker's crime, not through Loeffler's own negligence. Hooker could run or hide or yell for help or talk Loeffler into accepting treatment. He could not strike back. If he'd killed Loeffler he'd have gotten fifty years for murder." "Maybe I should be a farmer. What did happen?" "I wouldn't know. Neither of them ever came back to Plateau." Y ear # A. D. approx. Fifty years? The flap of a gnat's wing. The long chase was nearing its end. At first Hooker had gained on his pursuer, for Loeffler's ramscoop was not getting as much hydrogen as Hooker's. Loeffler's ship was in the shadow of Hooker's. At one time they had been light-years apart. But now Loeffler's ship was gaining. For Hooker's ship had reached terminal velocity. There had to be a limit on the velocity of a fusion powered ramship. It was this: when the exhaust velocity of the fusion drive was no greater than the velocity of the interstellar hydrogen hitting the ramscoop, the ship could go no faster. Hooker had reached that limit tens of thousands of years ago. And so had his pursuer. But Loeffler's ship was using hydrogen which had slipped through Hooker's ramscoop. The hydrogen wasn't hitting Loeffler's ramscoop field as hard. It had absorbed velocity from Hooker's. Loeffler was close behind. The chase could end within decades. O nce upon a time Hooker had hopped Loeffler would give up and turn around. Surely he would realize that Hooker could not be IF caught! But the years (had stretched to decades, and every year Loeffler waited meant four years trying to get back to Wunderland. He'd have had to decelerate before he could begin the long flight home, and deceleration would take as many decades as he had spent fleeing. And so Hooker had spent two hours a day before the scope screen, watching the stars crawl past year by year, waiting for Lxeffler to turn around. The years had stretched into centuries, and still Hooker spent two hours a day watching the rear scope screen. Until there were no more stars ahead, but only the distant muddled dots of galaxies, and the stars behind were taking on a vagueness like curdled milk. And when the centuries had become millenia, Hooker no longer believed his enemy would let him go. But still he spent two hours per ship's day before the scope screen, watching the galaxy drop away. He was totally a man of habits now. He had not had an original thought in centuries. The ship's clock governed his life in every detail, taking him to the autodoc or the kitchen or the gym or the steam room or the bedroom or the bathroom. You'd have thought he was an ancient robot following a circular tape, no longer able to respond to outside stimuli. He looked more like an aged robot than an aged man. From a distance he would have looked twenty. The 'doc had taken good care of him. But there were things the 'doc could not do. The oldest living man had been short of four hundred years old when that machine was made. Moscow Motors had had no way of knowing what a man would need when his life could be measured in tens of thousands of years. And so the face was young; but the veneer was cracked, and the muscles no longer showed any kind of expression, and the habit patterns of the man were deeply grooved inbrain. By now the chase meant nothing to Hooker. In any case he would have been incapable of original thought. T hey had come up along the galactic axis. Hooker, looking into the scope screen, saw the galaxy face on. It was not bright, but it was wide. The galaxy showed like varicolored dyes poured into viscous ink, red dye and yellow and blue and green, but mostly red, and then the whole mass swirled around the center of the pot. So that the center glowed all colors, a continuous mass of stars packed so closely as to blot the blackness behind; but it was not bright. There is dust even in intergalactic space. Nearly one hundred thousand light-years of dust shaded the galaxy from Hooker's view. The arms were almost black, the glowing areas spotted with black gaps and dust clouds. Everything was reddened and dimmed by Doppler shift. He could not see Loeffler. Habit used his fingers to magnify the view, slowly. The galaxy, already wide enough to fill the scope screen, expanded. In the core, individual red giant stars appeared, bigger than anytMng in the arms. And a bluewhite spot appeared, and grew. It grew until it filled the screen. There was a black dot in the center. Hooker had watched for nearly an hour before the thought stirred in his brain. That hadn't happened for a long time, but it did happen. Hooker's memory capacity was nearly full. But his brain was in good working order; he was guaranteed sane.  wonder what damage I did? The thought threatened to slip away, but he grabbed for it, sensing somehow that it might be important.  held my com laser on him for hours. I may have damaged him. Vve never seen him broadside; Vd have no way of knowing. But if his ship is badly hurt, I could finish the job with my laser. Mine never burned out. His did. He'd have to wait until Loeffler got closer. The thought slipped away... And return two days later. I wonder how much damage I did? How would I find out? Every day he remembered the problem. A month and a half after he had first thought of it, he thought of the answer. H e could turn the ship sideways to fire the fusion drive laterally. Loeffler would imitate him to keep him from sneaking past and home. That would put Loeffler broadside to him. He had done it once before, trying to make turnover for Wonderland. But Loeffler had been too far away for the scope to show details. If he did it now... He did. Then he focused one of the side scopes on Loeffler, enlarged the image and waited. The time came when he should have gone to the steam room. He was half out of his seat; but he couldn't leave. Loeffler hadn't turned yet. The ships were light-hours apart. Hooker forced himself to sit down and to stay down, gripping the arms of the control chair with both hands. His teeth began to chatter. He shivered. A deadening cold spread through him. He sneezed. The shivering and the sneezing continued for a long time, then passed. Steam room time was over. Loeffler began to turn. And Hooker knew why he had never turned for home. There was no lifesystem at all. The hfesystem had always been the most fragile part of the ship. Eons ago Hooker's laser had played over Loeffler's lifesystem and melted it to slag. Nothing was left but tattered shards, polished at the edges by gas molecules slipping through the ramscoop shield. Loeffler hadn't died fast. He'd had time to program the autopilot to arrange a collision course with Hooker's ship. Loeffler might have given up the chase long ago. But the autopilot never would, never could. ' Hooker turned off his scope screen and went down to the steam room. His schedule was shot to hell. He was still trying to re-adjust when his enemy's ramscoop field swept across his ship. Then both ships were driving toward the edge of the universe, IF IF  Short Story It Takes All Kinds The big board flashed its numbers -- and each one was a sentence of death! T 'erry Gordon sat on a simulated chrome bench in the great East City waiting hall and watched his future fading on the huge board that covered the entire square-mile roof. Few of his high school friends would recognize Terry as he sat sulking. The short muscular young man was known for his engaging ear-toear smile. Terry Gordon was not smiling now as he looked unblinkingly upwards at spot #. Spot # was Terry Gordon. Right now, anyway. True, Terry realized, he was a lot better off than most people. Of the the test, very few would ever make the board at all. But that wouldn't be enough. Only ten per cent would pass, and Terry knew his odds were sHm. And they kept getting slimmer. Since East City was headquarters for the test, his number had been posted quickly. In fact, he had rankboard began its posting. But, as other computers around the world tied into this central board, his rank dropped. And dropped. And dropped. Now he was number #, and the tests were only # tabulated. On a straight percentage basis he was all right, but Terry knew it didn't work out that way in practice. An inhuman voice intoned, "ninety-two," and the roof swam as the figures were adjusted to accommodate the test results of more than got up and walked down the line, straining his thick neck backwards to spot his new position. Once he had spotted his # digit person-identification code unaided, but this time he could not. He punched his ID code into a wall stand. A half second later, he walked away with a strip of paper punched #. As the sturdy, black-chaired Terry Gordon walked to his new position, he heard a shot and several screams from the Losers' Corner as someone committed suicide. Not me, thought Gordon. Quickly he tried to evaluate the new results. It isn't good, he thought. Vm still ahead of straight percentages but not by anywhere near as much. T he population explosion and the technological explosion mushroomed together, and Terry, along with # other twenty-yearolds all over the world, was a victim of the crossfire. Too many people, not enough jobs. They tried reducing the workweek, but that didn't work; eliminated jobs were manual or supervisory in nature. The jobs which remained require a lot of time at work. The world went on a double shift. That helped -- but not enough. Service jobs increased. Again not enough, and the computers and their lesser brothers took over most of these. It was decided that all jobs would require a college education. Without exception. College was made free, but enrollment limited to those most deserving. At first, the top one-third of a high school class was eligible, with room left over for the duller sons of those who could afford the fantastic freight of seven years of extra schooling. Then it became #, and nobody could get in just with money. Twenty -- fifteen -- and now ten per cent. The world had finally taken birth control seriously, but Terry Gordon would suffer what the label-loving historians had termed "the Blind Decades." None of this was fair, obviously, but it worked. Terry Gordon wanted to pass the test. He had to pass it. Since childhood he knew that he had to be not one of the # but one of the ten. His class psychiatrist had said he had a "good little kid" syndrome. "I must be good. I must be right. I must be in complete control." The only way to keep in control of anything was to pass this test. "Ninety-three." Terry didn't bother to look for himself. He stood in line and used less than # spaces, about three thousand more than straight percentage. If it doesn't get any worse than that I can make it. He tried to smile and realized it was only a grimace so he quit. Someone -- a girl, Terry thought -- threw herself off a railing. Too dangerous in that corner. Even if my number -- even when my number, he corrected himself dryly, gets over there I'm not going to stand under it. There are no rules that say I have to stand there. He was now in front of a Boozer. He stared at it for a few minutes until he realized that he was now qualified to order a drink. He no IF stepped up before tbc machine and inserted his credit card, establishing automatically his right to drink. The machine flashed back, "What's your pleasure, Mr. Gordon?" and Terry froze, unable to think clearly. Whafs that drink they're always having on TV? Oh, yes. He pressed the Martini button. After one sip a pretty blonde girl "I'm sorry," she stammered." I was looking for my number. You want to hit me?" "I don't care what they say," Terry replied gallantly, "I don't believe in hitting girls. Especially pretty ones." The tall blonde girl giggled, but not objectionably. "Then I'll buy you a new drink. What were you having?" "Martini," Terry said it as if he'd been drinking for years. "But that's all right." "It was my fault you spilled yours. Besides, I've never ordered a drink before. I think I'll have one, too." She punched the Boozer's Martini button, but forgot to insert her credit card. Gordon helped her like an old hand. When she received the first drink, she handed him one of the disposable plastic glasses. "I'm Nova Dale." She had dimples when she smiled. "Terry Gordon," replied the stocky young man. "What's your standing?" "I'm not quite sure... " "Ninety-four," said the computer. It said the "four" badly. "Let me have your ID card a second. Here, hold this." He traded her the drink for her card and copied (since it was in poor taste to hold onto another person's card), then walked over to the tracer. She turned out to be in a slightly better position than he. "You're #," Terry said. "I'm not doing that well. I'm #." He was trying to be pleasant. Unsuccessfully. "Why are the last percentage  V points so high in acceptances?" she asked. "Rich kids. Tutors." He gulped at his Martini and instantly regretted it. "I hope we both make it," she said. "If it goes on like that last percentage, you'll make it and I won't." Nova Dale tried to be helpful. "What'll you do if you don't?" "I've got to." "But..." "I've just got to." "I didn't think being an Also Serve was so bad." "The hell you say." She pouted. "Ninety-five," announced the computer. "We're getting down to the short hairs. Nova." He took his place in the tracer line as a young man went berserk in the losers' Corner and had to be shot down by the police. He returned to Nova with a grin from ear to ear. "They only got their share," he yelled to her. "I'm # and you're # thousand places better." Suddenly he realized he was holding Nova's arm. He released her but continued to bubble, "Straight percentages, Nova. Only five per cent more to go, and there are # places left. I may -- I just might -- make it!" "Wonderful." "Let me buy you a drink. You're very pretty, you know." It was very true, but he still didn't know quite why he said it. "Thank you," she said, replying to the compliment. She tried to tell him she didn't want a drink but he was already marching toward the Boozer. She took a deep breath and drained her glass. "Adult," she muttered as Terry returned. "What?" "Nothing." They walked to a spot where they could visually spot their numbers overhead but Terry suggested they go no further. "Why?" she asked. There was a burst of flame from Ihe Losers' Corner, making the question academic. Nova Dale considered the incident, took another sip and announced, "I guess our educational system does produce a lot of pressure." He nodded gravely. A human voice usurped the computer. "There have been a large number of score results reported within the last minute. We will skip a report at # per cent and go directly to # as soon as the information is digested. Hang on -- stay loose -- keep cool. This public service message is brought to you by God and His representatives in your friendly neighborhood church or synagogue." N ova sipped at her drink, made a sour face, then smiled at the intense young man. "I'm glad the results are coming in quickly now. I hate suspense -- except on TV of course. I 'member, in my TV drama watching class, they told us suspense was the agonizing wait for the inevitable... You know, without my heels you'd be as tall as I am." Staring up at the ceiling, Terry Gordon replied, "Yeah, L guess I would be. Hey, there's my number." "I think I'll take off my heels." She did. "Your number is about # that way." She stood up directly in front of him. "You trying to get rid of me?" "Gosh no, I like you." She started to say something, stopped, then blurted out, "You going to shack up with somebody tonight?" "No," he answered. "I know we're entitled to, graduating to adulthood and all, but I -- ah -- well, I didn't want to apply for a trial marriage right away and..." Terry Gordon realized his dark face was turning red. "Well, college starts in three days, you know." "Did you know they only used to teach school nine months a year?" "I heard that. Those old kids must've never learned anything." He took a big swallow of his Martini. "Ah, are you?" "Am I what?" "Shacking up?" "Well, there is this boy..." "Ninety-seven," said the inhuman voice. "Moment of truth," he yelled and IF ran for the tracer, leaving Nova in mid-coquette. He was one of the first in line and returned quickly. "How was it?" Nova Dale asked. "Worse. You've got it made." "I don't suppose we could trade rankings?" Terry snorted, "Don't be an ass." Hurt, she fumbled, "I was only trying to help. It doesn't mean that much to me. Really." "I wish we could. You're only #; I'm #. You know what that means? I'm only a lousy ten thousand or so better than straight percentage. I'm not going to make it." "There's still a chance. There's only four more per cent to go." "Three." "I never was very good at math." "Who's the guy?" Terry asked. "What guy?" Nova Dale tossed her long blonde hair from side to side and drained her glass. "The one you're doing the trial marriage with." "Just a guy. I met him in high school in a Luke Short course. He's pretty nice and, after all, I figured it was time I knew something about sex. You know what I mean?" He nodded. "I mean, why would they give us all those courses if they didn't want us to experience life's greatest social experience?" "Yeah, I know. There was this one girl I might have -- ah -- tried, if that's the word." "It fits our generation," she answered with the air of someone who has just said something profound. "She didn't want you?" "I never asked." The burly man was blushing again. "Gee, you should have. I bet you'd be very proficient." "Thank you," he said solemnly. "I'll buy you a drink this time," Nova said. "Let me." "It's my turn." W hile the tall blonde was getting a round from the nearest Boozer, the computer announced the arrival of the latest figures. Terry Gordon checked the results and found that he was now at position #, while Nova was a safe #. Two more percentage points to go, he thought. And if it keeps going up like that, Vye had it. Til miss out by a couple of thousand. Boy, it's hot in here. Nova returned with the drinks. He accepted his and blurted out gallantly, "For a tall girl, you've got a real great figure." "Thank you." She smiled and held the smile for a full three seconds. Finally, "How did you make out?" "It's going to be close as hell. I'm only a little better than straight percentages. If the next two percentage points get # each. I've had it." "It isn't fair. You want to go to college so badly and you may not make it; I don't really care and I probably will. It isn't fair. "I've read that just coming from a worker's family gives a person a much better chance on the tests. Intellectual stimulation at an early age, they say." "What's your father do?" "Insurance estimator." "Gee, that's a pretty good job. The most I really hoped for was fireman or subway emergency actuator or bellhop or something like that. You know, you're the nicest sexy girl I've ever met." "You know, for a short man, you show no predisposition to plumpness." "Thank you. I played a lot of football in high school. First string tackle." "I thought so." Nova took a good swallow without grimacing. "And, for an intense young man, you're very polite. I know what you must be going through." "I wish I'd met you before that other guy did. I'd like to be married to you tonight." "I would have liked that, too." "Ninety-nine." Terry Gordon's knees jellied, and Nova had to go to the tracer with his Ifs not fair, he thought as he sat down on a pink bench, not fair to drag it out like this, Vm going to lose. Why couldn't my father have been a worker? He took a good swallow from his new drink. No, I can't blame anybody else -- that's cheap. Why didn't I study harder? Nova Dale returned. "You're #. Is that good?" He shook his head. "Less than # places left. I've had it." Nova sat on the bench beside him as there was a flurry of gunfire from the Losers' Corner. She put her arm around him. "You wouldn't do that, would you?" "No, but I sure as hell feel like it." "If the percentage holds, you'll make it." She gulped at her Martini. "Besides, if you've done your best..." "I have to be in control. My psychiatrist told me so." "Are you angry with me because I have a higher score?" He shook his head again. "I'm just mad at myself for not doing better. Somebody once said 'Ninety per cent of everything is junk.' " He smiled, as though it hurt his lips. "Actually 'junk' wasn't the word. He ate his pseudo-olive. "I've got to make the ten per cent, don't you see?" "I see." She nodded gravely, stroking the back of his head. "No, you don't, but I think I love you." She kissed him. "It's against the law to kiss anybody in public, but thank you." "Ninety-nine point five." The computer voice seemed to enjoy the torture. "I'll go get the results," he offered. "I think I can walk this time." "And I'll get us another drink. These things aren't bad after you get used to 'em." A fter a few minutes he returned to accept his fourth Martini and tell her, "You're in. I've had it; I'm #." "You still have a chance." "Yeah, but it's a slim one. More are trying to get in, and there are only # places left. If I make IF it' he said, sitaring down at the floor, "would you marry me for three days?" "I thought you'd never ask," Nova replied. A human voice announced to the waiting crowd, "Final results are in. They'll be processed and announced in one minute." There was a scream from the Losers' Corner. "Here's to higher education and the # people who enter college in three days. I hope I'm one of them." "I hope so, too," Nova answered. "And here's to our marriage." "Yeah, that too. You will be kind?" Terry Gordon nodded, wondering why the room seemed to turn slightly when he closed his eyes. "I've got to make it," he repeated. "I mean -- I don't think I could get married unless I get accepted. You know what I mean? The sus -- suscess -- " "Successful." "Yeah. Sussessful Sexual Adjustment Class. I did real well on my final in that course." "Me too. And I do understand, Terry. I mean, I guess I love you. Funny isn't it?" "Sure is." "I mean we just met and all." "Yeah." "Do you shppose we're drunk?" "I guess so. I didn't think it'd be like this." Nova Dale smiled and tossed her long blonde hair from side to side. "But it is sorta nice to be grown up and able to drink and get married and all." "Yeah." "You don't want to talk much now, do you?" Terry Gordon took her free hand in his. "You're not only buriiful, you're unnerstanding." "Here is the posting of the final results," announced the computer in what Terry thought to be a compassionate, if inhuman voice. He sprang to his feet, and he and Nova joined the jostling crowd around the tracer. He shoved her ahead of him. Their plastic Martini glasses splashed, then spilled and fell on the floor. She filed her # numbers into the machine. Instantly, she had her answer: #. "I'm in," she screamed. Terry Gordon was in front of the tracer now. He made a mistake and cleared the machine. His hands would not obey his mind. Finally with a dozen other aspirants threatening his life if he didn't hurry, he And received in return: #. Qomebody has to get that numO her," Nova tried to console the ex-high school football star. "I only needed one more. Just one." He sat on an orange bench with his head in his hands. "There's no prize for second." He pulled a folder from his pocket. "Does this mean... " He stood up and faced her. "Nova, I love you and I'd still like to marry you tonight, but... She pouted. "You know, in my state. I'd be using you." "That's all right," she said. "Some masochism is pleasant and perfectly within the boundari of so-called normal experience, according to my teacher. I wouldn't mind, if you'll just be kind." "I'll use you kindly." "I'll call that guy; chances are he can still find a girl for tonight. I'll call my father, too, and tell him about my change of plans. I hope we can find an apartment at this stage of the game." She began dialing on her communicator. Terry Gordon just stared at the pamphlet explaining the test. There must be a loophole somewhere. But he couldn't find it. "After the completion of the test," he read aloud, "# winners will be chosen for seven years of basic higher education. Those who successfully complete the seven years will be assigned employment consistent with their abilities and, as is possible, consistent with their inclinations as well." Officialese, Losers' Comer was bedlam. A few shots were heard; screams and shouts of anger filled the air. Suddenly a bullet ricocheted off the side of the near-by tracer and pranged into the bench beside Terry. Its velocity nearly spent, it probably couldn't have done much damage, but it did wake Terry out of his lethargy. A man could get killed here, he realized. "Terry," Nova announced, "my Daddy wants to talk with you." Nova was surprised when Terry practically grabbed her communicator. "How do you do, Mr. Dale." Pause. "Yes, I will be kind and I want lo talk with you... "  do you want?" V Chief Testing Officer Raymon Bristow was six feet four inches tall and weighed # pounds. Some people said he got the job because he had the physique for it. Administering the test was bad enough, Bristow had told his friends, answering the complaints was much worse. He stared across the twelve-bytwelve office just one floor above the great waiting hall and glared at the couple who had managed to reach him. "Unusual enough to see a couple here, what do you want?" Nova cut off Terry's prepared opening. "We're going to be married just as soon as he convinces you." "Nobody convinces me of anything. We don't accept changes because order, no matter how rotten, is preferable to chaos, no matter how noble." "Yes, sir," Gordon blurted out. "The Roman Empire and the Dark Ages." "I was thinking more of the old California educational system. Now, get to the point so I can throw you out. You're not here to kill me because you volunteered for a probe and you're clean. You're not here to complain about the system or the test, either." "Did the probe tell you that?" The huge man sn#rted, "Kids come here to kill me, adults to scream of injustice. I don't know why you're here. He lit a huge round cigar. "Now, for Freud's sake, talk." "I'm Terry Gordon and I was #." IF Chief Testing Officer Raymond Bristow choked on his cigar and turned his back on the couple, "So? Somebody has to be the first to lose. You're no more pitiable than the loser at #. I'm sorry for all losers, but I can't do anything about it. Now get out." "I haven't explained why I have a right to go to school." "All right." Bristow turned, his face composed now. "Explain it and then get out." that test today." "About that," Bristow hedged. "About that? Because if # took the test I'm entitled anyway." "Kid, ten per cent is a guideline. The rule specifically states 'After the test is completed, # winners will be chosen for seven years of basic higher education.' Those are the rules, not some stuff about ten per cent. Besides there were less than # who took the test. Good-by, kid." "I'm not through." "Kid, I'm getting anxious to meet some irate parents. At least they get to the point." "Will you grant that almost all who took the test were twenty years old?" "How old are the two of you?" Nova missed irony and answered. Gordon pressed on, "Now, Nova's father is an insurance man... " Bristow interrupted, "Have him sell me some; I don't think I'll live." twenty years olds, # won't last the year." "It's the same rate as #, Daddy says," Nova contributed. "Medical science and the banning of private cars have kept the death rate down in spite of hyper-population." "It's a fine lecture," grunted Bristow, "but it changes nothing." "Would you agree a person has to be alive to go to college?" Bristow glowered at the couple. "I see what you're driving at -- somebody may die before college starts. Sorry, Gordon, the rule doesn't say we deliver # bodies, it says we pick that many." "Nova, darling, he said it!" He jumped up and down, embracing her. "I said what?" Bristow demanded. "You said you pick that many. Now you can't pick a dead man." The big man exhaled a huge cloud of smoke. "Let me try being very direct: what the hell do you mean?" T erry took a deep breath. "The test was over at four o'clock. The test results weren't finally announced until ten p.m." "So?" "So, I figure about eighty-five people ahead of me in the listing are dead. They don't need their spots, and I do. And, the way the rules are set up. I'm entitled to one of them." Nova looked at Terry. "Eightyfive?" "Sure. Figure it out for yourself. fatalities yearly -- that's a little less than # for #. Divide that by the number of days in a year, and it's about #, or more than fourteen per hour." "Aad you can't choose a dead man to go to college. It's not copesetic." Since tihe Chief Testing Officer was staring at her, she amended, "It's not fair." "Fairness," stated Bristow, moving to the computer imput which took up one of the twelve-foot walls, "has nothing to do with it." "It's not right," Nova said, beginning to cry. "Ditto," said Bristow, typing on the computer keys. "It's not defensible," Terry Gordon stated flatly. The computer sprang to life and file cards spewed from the output orifice. "Now that," said Bristow, is probably the smartest thing you've said tonight." He picked up the cards and flipped them in his hand. "Your mortality tables aren't too accurate over a short span of time. Actually almost one hundred winners have died." He flipped a switch and announced into the microphone. "Attention. Since # people who have qualified for college died before test results were completed and posted, we are revising the results. This 'will admit the first # people over the # rating." Bristow flipped the cards into the machine, typed cancel these cards and revise the list accordingly to #. "You're lucky," Bristow said, "that this machine is tied into payroll. We knew the deaths immediately." "Thank you," Terry Gordon said, his knees weak with wonder. "We did it. Nova. I'm not junk." "Where are you two shacking up tonight?" "We don't know." The Chief Testing Officer dug into his pockets. "Here's my key and location finder. I won't be using my place tonight. After I get done listening to #'s sad tale and a few thousand parents I'm going to get very drunk." Nova and Terry both thanked him. Profusely. "I'm not doing this for you, kid. I'm doing it for Edison." The couple paused for a moment at the door. "Edison and all the world's other great men who wouldn't have passed this damn test. You've got guts. I'll say that for you. You damn well better put 'em to good use." I t was three in the morning when Terry Gordon and the three-day Mrs. Gordon reached the Chief Testing Officer's beautiful apartment. In front of a pseudowood fire, the couple drank a glass of champagne Nova had purchased while Terry picked up the license. "You know," Terry said, "I've been thinking about what Mr. Bristow said. I have a hell of a responsibility. For all those people who didn't make it." "You'll live up to it, Terry," Nova said. "And besides that, you will be kind." "I will."      IF IF  Short Story Somebody was stealing computer time... but for what purpose? T 'here was a thief on my staff. Hell. It was someone I trusted, too; it had to be. Arnold Su grinned enthusiastically as he laid the proof on my desk. "Computer time is expensive, Mr. Royoe," he pontificated. Now that was la discovery. "And someone has embezzled more than # hours on our #D# during the last year." I raised my eyes prayerfully to the mural that covered three walls of my office. The holograph gave the three-dimensional illusion that we were perched among tall conifers somewhere in the Canadian Rockies. You'd never guess that my office is buried under the Royce building in Greater San Diego. "God preserve me from your efficiency, Arnold. Seventy hours on the #D# computer is worth #. You're an extraordinary security officer; it only took you a year to discover that someone is robbing us blind." Su was pained by my unjustified criticism. "It's someone with a private computer readout." "You're pretty good at the obvious." Most computers, especially the really big ones like our #D#, can be programmed by remote consoles in the offices of favored company researchers. Such use is automatically recorded for later review. "So it must be someone highly place in the company. Someone smart. Chief, he actually programmed the computer to cover up for him. The #D# has been "keeping two sets of books" to conceal the embezzlement from our weekly checks." O f course there have been cases of computer-camouflaged embezzlement (usually of money) in the past -- that's one reason why However it takes a real expert to thoroughly cover his tracks. Evidently W were up against an expert. "How did you discover the theft, then, Amie?" Arnold's grin spread even further across his face. This was the question he had been waiting for. "Boss, you really don't appreciate me. I've been expecting something like this for a long time. My section has an agreement with Control Data Corporation. Every year we audit their computer complex with ours, and vice versa. That way the problem is reduced to a battle of the computers, and we can detect this sort of automated deception. But the crook started embezzling, something after the # audit, so he wasn't discovered until yesterday." I picked up Arnold's report. "Any idea who the culprit is?" Four million dollars, I thought. If I never got my hands on the crook who -- no wonder our general efficiency had fallen off in the last year. "Not the vaguest," Su replied, with computer privileges. Now if you had just let me bug the executive offices and washrooms...' "You know, Arnie," I said slowly, "sometimes I think you would have been just as comfortable on Herr Himmler's staff as you are here." Arnold turned red. "Sorry, Boss, I didn't mean -- " "Never mind." Su is a good man, the graduate of one of this country's best schools of business administration. It's just that he's an incurable snoop, which makes him, properly supervised, an excellent security officer. Su continued, subdued, "We can't even reconstruct what sort of problems the computer was doing during those # hours. The thief did a magnificent job on that computer." I looked down the valley in the mural. Someone I trusted had sold me out. I'd worked twenty years to make the name Royce synonymous with computers and to make Royce Techonology, Inc., competitive with collected a lot of good men under one corporate roof. They are the backbone of Royce, more than I, with my high school diploma, ever was. And one of them was rotten. Who? T '-here was one individual who might be able to find that answer. I got up and started for the door. "We're going to see Howard." "Prentice?" asked Su. He grabbed his report off my desk and followed me. "You don't think he's responsible?" Arnold was genuinely shocked. "Of course not," I said, locking the door to my office. When we were out of earshot of my secretaries and their recording equipment I continued. "Whoever we're up against obviously knows computers inside and out. We can't catch him with old-fashioned automation techniques. We're going to have to get him by exploiting the human angle. Howard Prentice has been kicking around longer than both of us put together. He knows human nature, and he knows more ways to skin a sucker than we'll ever imagine. He makes the perfect investigator." I noticed the hurt look IF on Arnold's face and added quickly; "On a unique case like this." It's only five minutes by aircar from Chula Vista to the Royce Research Labs at Oceanside. In fifteen minutes we were standing in the hall outside Prentice's lab. I prefer to see people in person rather than by phone -- I get more out of them. But this time it backfired: Prentice wasn't in his lab, which was locked. I was starting back to the parking lot when Su stopped me. "Just a minute, Boss." He produced a flat, metal plate and inserted it in the lock. "Master key," he explained confidentially. "Now we can wait for him in here." I was too surprised to bawl him out for this latest invasion of privacy. Besides, he'll never grow up. The room lighted up as we entered. Packed against one wall were the usual programming typers and TV screens. I also recognized a highresolution video tape recorder and a picture reader. Stacked in orderly rows along the work benches were hundreds of Prentice's oil paintings. Sometimes I wondered whether he considered himself an artist or a scientist -- though I didn't care what he did with his time as long as he completed assigned projects. Su was already rununaging among the paintings -- admiring them I think. Prentice couldn't be out for long. As a section chief he was in charge of thirty different computer labs. And right then his section was busy designing the optical and communiwanted to boost out toward Alpha Centauri A next year. I sat down in the ohair before the computer console and tried to relax. The holograph on his desk caught my eye. It was a color pic of Howard and Moira taken on their diamond wedding anniversary. Moira must be more than ninety years old. Only one faintly attractive after a haul like that -- but tall and slim, somehow Moira managed it. She was holding Howard's arm like a fifteen-yearold who's just discovered boys. Quite a gal; quite a man she had, too. Howard must be pushing #. You know, he personally worked for Thomas Edison? Fact. The man's like history. When the" # depression came he was a top executive for some oil company out East. The depression apparently soured him on industry. He spent the next forty years -- an ordinary adult lifetime -- in Greenwich Village as an artistbum, a beatnik. Then, some time around #, he changed careers again. He entered college. If you're old enough, maybe you remember math, no less. And he did it. Howard's been with me for fifteen years. One of my best men. I tapped an impatient tattoo on the arms of the ohair. But where the devil was he now? "Boss, this stuff is tremendous!" I stood up to see what Arnold was talking about. He was pointing at several paintings he had pulled out from the bottom of the pile. Su is quite an art and film fan. He has a tape collection of all films made since #, as well as a very large collection of paintings from all periods. He lhad reason to admire Howard's paintings, though. Prentice is an excellent, maybe a great painter. Thou he's done many traditional abstractionist pieces, Howard has been a neorealist ever since ' I've known him. Take the paintings in the lab; they were all clear and unambiguous as far as execution went. There were landscapes, portraits, interiors. But the landscapes were from no area in the real world. And the portraits were expressionless mug shots: face on, quarter face, profile. Not all of the subjects were even human. Every camas was the same size. Over the years I often asked Howard about this, but he always answered with some line about artistic profundity. I don't think he even let us see everything he did. A rnold had called me over to see three landscapes he had discovered. When he placed them side by side it was like a composite photo -- a panoramic view. It was one of the most spectacular things I'd seen by Prentice. When I looked at it, the lights in the room seemed to dim a little. In the picture it was night. A sickle moon lit a deep valley or mountain pass. Our viewpoint was halfway up the side of the valley. Scrubby brush and volcanic slag were visible nearby. Far away, down in the center of the valley, was a castle or fortress, its immense black structure outlined by the moonlight. Though vast and strong, somehow it was also decayed and diseased -- a skull rotting in the earth. Around the castle were fields of purple flowers glimmering faintly with their own light (fluorescing paint?). But the flowers weren't beautiful -- even at this distance they were fungus growing on death's decay. I pulled my attention away from the landscape. It was the most hostile I'd seen by Prentice. And somehow it was familiar. I often got that "seen-before" feeling with Howard's stuff -- though usually his landscapes provoked awe rather than fdar. The picture would have been even more impressive if it had been painted on a single canvas rather than split up on separate ones. Then I noticed the picture reader at the end of the bench. We use pic readers to program images directly into the logic of a computer. This is an expensive procedure since it preempts a lot of the computer's circuits. It's usually simpler to keep pictorial information on tape, but sometimes we want thp computer to operate directly and continuously on information in a picture -- to alter a perspective, say -- and we have to use the reader. A horrible suspicion was forming in my mind. I picked up one of the paintings and laid it on the flat glass plate at the top of the reader. It fit perfectly. Now I knew why all the paintings were, the same size. Forgetting Su, I reached up and pulled a heavy notebook off the shelf above the bench. I had to snoop. I had to find some legitimate excuse for the man I now suspected. The notebook was a motion study. IF We use them when wc have to program the computer on changing spacial relations -- as with complicated machinery; the computer has to know the position of every part of the machine at every instant in order to predict performance and detect bugs. The interior page was I riffled through the pages. There were thousands of rough sketches showing the human hand in every position. Beside each sketch was a numerical description of the motion from that position to the next. must have a separate notebook for facial expressions, a notebook for every class of motion! And it was all set for programming. His project -- whatever it was -- was huge. He must have been planning this for years. From the evidence in the lab it was certainly big enough to cost # hours of #D# time. Prentice was the rat all right. But why had he embezzled the time? And what had he done with it? T '-here was a noise from the doorway. Arnold looked up from the picture he had been admiring and said cheerfully, "Hi, Howard!" "Hello." Prentice set his briefcase on the bench and hung up his jacket. The he turned to look at me. "This is my private office, Bob," he said mildly. I didn't bite. I was too mad for subtlety. "Prentice, you've got some explaining to do." I gestured at the paintings and the picture reader. "Someone's been stealing #D# time, and I think it's you." Prentice glanced at Su. "So you finally ran a cross-audit, eh, Arnold? Well, I knew I wouldn't have more than a year. I got what I gambled for." Su looked even more surprised than I felt. Prentice had spent a whole year concealing the fraud, and now he was calmly confessing. "Just what was worth # of Royce time?" I snapped. "Would you like to see?" He did not wait for an answer. "I've got one of the last tapes right here." He reached into his brief case and pulled out a TV tape cartridge. "Moira and I have always been appalled by the fact that so many art forms are beyond the means of a single artist. Take the film industry: most movies cost many millions of dollars and require the services of hundreds of artists -- actors, directors, photographers." Prentice threaded the tape through the multiple head of the video tape recorder. You'd think he had invited us over for home movies. The gall of the man. I didn't stop him though. I suppose I was curious. What could be worth a ruined career to Prentice? "Anyway," he continued, "back around #, I saw a way to give film-making to the individual artist. Since then, everything Moira and I have done has been directed toward this goal. At first we didn't realize how complicated the job was and how far computers had to go before they could help us with what we wanted. But I got my degree, and we kept at it." He hooked the tape into the receptipn cartridge and snapped the cover into place. "With the aid of tihe #D# we've animated one of the great novels of this century." "You've used the #D# to make a cartoon!" Arnold was obviously fascinated by the concept. He had completely forgotten that Prentice was talking about a crime. For the first time since he had entered the lab, Prentice seemed annoyed. "Yes, I guess it is a cartoon -- like da Vinci's Mona Lisa is a doodle. Cut the lights, will you, Arnold?" The lights went out, and Prentice turned on the recorder. The TV screen on the wall came alive. I gasped. Night, The landscape with the purple flowers. But what a difference. This was a window on another world. If I had felt uneasy looking at the paintings, I felt terror now. Three tiny figures struggled up the side of the valley. Suddenly I knew why this scene was familiar. Prentice had animated Tolkien's Lord of the Rings! If you've ever taken high school English (and if you haven't, I'll hire you -- my ego needs someone in this outfit with less education than I have) I'm sure you've read Tolkien's book. We were watching the scene where Frodo, Samwise, and Gollum come up the stairs to Kirth Ungol past the fortress Minas Morgul -- the skull thing in the valley. Prentice's version was much more realistic and fearsome than anything I had ever imagined. I realized Prentice was still talking. "Moira and I worked thirty years on the paintings, the motion studies, the script, the sound track; but without the #D# to integrate what we had created, we'd be left with a warehouse full of paintings and notebooks." The three figures stopped to rest. Our viewpoint moved in for a closeup. The three were arguing in low, frightened tones. Now I knew why Prentice's portraits were expressionless; diey were the patterns on which Prentice, through the #D#, imposed emotion and movement. This was no cartoon. The figures were fine portraits, come alive to argue in whispers. I could see Frodo's blank resignation, the fear in Samwise, the glittery green of Gollum's eyes as he fought with the other two. Yet it was all a synthesis of oil paintings and motion studies -- the product of Howard's genius and the #D#'s analysis. Without a break in continuity, the "camera" dollied back to reveal the ancient stone stair that stretched high into the mountains. The three stood up and continued their long climb toward Shelob's Lair. Click, The tape ended. Prentice turned on the lits. I sat dazed for a second, trying to bring myself back to the real world. "That tape is just five minutes long," said Prentice. "The whole animation is more than four hours." Su recovered first. "My God, Howard. That's tremendous. It's the greatest advance in art technique in fifty years." "At least," agreed Prentice. "Now, anything a writer or painter can imagine can be staged." IF "Sure," I said sarcastically, "as steal # of computer (time." Prentice turned to me. "Not really, Bob. Computer time is only expensive because of the scarcity of #D#class computers and the number of problems that can't be solved except by the #D#. On the basis of past progress. I'll wager that in five years you'll be selling computers as good as the #D# for less than #. Anybody who really wants an animator will be able to have one." ' "And you just couldn't wait." He smiled, "That's right. I've waited thirty years. I don't know if I'll be around for another five." "Well, I'm going to make you wish you'd taken the chance. When I get done with you, there'll be nothing left for the Tolkien estate to pick over." A rnold broke in, "Just a second. Boss -- " I turned on him angrily, "Look Su, can't you understand? Prentice has stolen # of my money r My Voice rose half an octave. "It's your money I'm talking about. Chief. Did you ever see Fantasia or Magica?"' "Disney's feature length animation? Yes." "Do you have any idea what they cost?" "Don't play games, Arnold. I know you're an expert. How much?" ""Fantasia was made way back in #. It cost Disney more than #. But when they got around to Magica # years later, the price tag had risen to #, even though Magica is a much poorer job. Nowadays, almost any mainguard picture -- whether animation or with real actors -- costs more than #. Howard's actually discovered a cheap way of making films." "Why didn't you just ask for the time, then?" I asked Prentice. Howard looked stubborn. He has his own peculiar brand of integrity. "Bob, do you honestly believe you would've said yes? I'm an artist. I may be a good researcher, but that was a means to an end. Moira and I had to do this, even though I knew it'd hurt Royce in the short run." "Chief, it doesn't matter whether Howard planned this to help you or not. The point is, he's dropped a fortune in your lap." When Arnold put it that way... for a topnotch movie, and if Howard had had organized help, besides his wife, it might have cost a lot less. It would be at least eight years before we miniaturized computers like the #D# for the consumer market. Until then, film-making would remain the prerogative of the large organization. It had taken Howard years to perfect this technique, so we were way ahead of potential competition. Figuratively speaking, we were standing on the ground floor of a whole new industry. Su saw that I was swayed. "Well?" "Well," I said grudgingly, "I guess we're in the movie business." I didn't realize how true I spoke till we got IF  Short Story What lovely people the Earthlings were! They were utterly cleliciousi T he Snick approached the Earth at # miles per second, detected the atmosphere and slowed up. A little closer in he sensed a masterhost and almost forgot to slow up for the hydrosphere. And then he lost it. The Snick was wise with its million years. Although he had never before found a masterhost except in the water, he knew exactly what to do. Retracing his path up to where the sense had been the strongest, he homed on it and shot westward. Three minutes later he was hovering above New York City. The Snick hesitat for only a moment, struck by the unexpected form the masterhost had adopted throughout the entire city. Then he dived, the final test. The people saw him coming. They shouted and pointed at him. A few began running. He felt the building emotion as he darted straight at a small group. This could be the home the Snicks had sought for almost a thousand years in an empty galaxy. He hit the first man in the middle of the back and went giddy with pleasure as the ecstatic burst of emotion flared around the masterhost. Drunk with celebration he cut through man after man until his rapture was so extreme he glided to the street in a stupor. Along the street thirty bodies lay as they had fallen while twenty-one hundred persons stared from every conceivable place of hiding at the little metal cylinder that looked too much like a bomb. A n hour later the Snick woke. The bodies had been removed and the watchers had all disappeared. For four blocks in every direction the city had been desert. Beyond that was a military cordon not even a rat could have slipped through. The Snick lay alone and thought... He had found a new masterhost. Certain features had not fit the universal pattern but they probably did not matter. Nowhere before had he encountered a masterhost that did not dwell in water. Nor did he have any memory of any masterhost whose individual entities all possessed an almost identical pseudoform, continually. In fact, he would have thought it impossible until today. But the final test had been conclusive. The test was what the Snick lived for. terhost had taught the newly created Snick to dive through the masterhost's protoplasmic body and tickle the insides with a small electric shock. To the amebic masterhost this was the supreme ecstasy, and the Snick thrived on the emotional output. But after # years the masterhost died out and the Snicks had gone into space to find another. They found several, but all in the final stages of extinction, and when they were gone the Snicks spread again into space. And here, after a thousand years of drifting he had found a new masterhost, young and Dumero.us. Gathering together all the strength from his recent emotional rapture the Snick sent a direotional come-home thought code of success ing in the void. It would take months for them all to assemble from throughout the universe, even on a thought code, but the first would arrive within days. The Snick must now make contact. The opportunity came immediately. A demolition squad came up the street in a heavily armored car. Two TV mobile units detached themselves from the car and approached, scanning the Snick from every angle. After several minutes a masterhost in thick protective shielding came toward him. This was contact. The Snick was built like a rounded and sealed metal cylinder, twelve inches long and three inches in diameter, with a ten-inch spike protruding from the head end along the central axis. The spike had two purposes, the first was to promote easy entrance into the protoplasmic bodies of the masterhost, the second, contact. Shooting off the ground, the Snick hit the masterhost full in the face and stopped, the spike through the middle of the contact brain. For an instant he felt the ecstasy and giddiness return, but because it was the brain there was something else. Deep within the contact, almost unnoticable to the Snick, was a fear and a hate and a hurt. And there was something more he couldn't quite catch as it flickered away and the masterhost crumpled. 'Te ecstasy was gone, and the A Snick felt the emptiness of the void. He did not understand. He had tided to make contact and had felt the emotional climax. But then... The Snick withdrew from the crumpled masterhost and turned toward the car. The blast hit him without warning and knocked him against a building. Before he had time to rationalize a second exploded beneath and sent him hurtling through the air. Immediately he raced skyward and two more missiles exploded where he had just been. Then he was out of sight of the city. The Snick flew west, its thoughts confused. The masterhost did not seem to want contact and yet the ecstasy had been real. Just to be sure he dived ait every town and tested a group of people. It took him only a while to learn that the climax came when he hit them in the middle of the upper part of the body or in the head. Several times he had hit just an arm or leg and had felt no rapture. He had gone back to those persons and hit them again, effectively, but the emotion had an undertone that frightened him. He learned too that the bodies were not protoplasm. They were more or less solid and contained a rigid internal structure of limestone. It wasn't until he reached the west coast that he thought of the second the way he must be certain. At the beach just north of Conception Point he made the test. Twelve masterhosts were on the beach. He hit all twelve, then sank into the sea. The emotional rapture he drew from the twelve, add to the ecstasies of his flight west, nearly sent his mind into blissful oblivion. Half of his thoughts wished there had been just two more masterhosts. That would have done it. The other half told him that then he would not have been able to complete the second test. He allowed himself plenty of time to cool off, just to be safe, then jumped back into the air and again raced toward the twelve on the beach. No masterhost moved. No preclimactic emotion reached toward him. Almost fearfully he hit the first masterhost, crumpled on the beach as the contact had been. There was nothing. There was the void. S hocked, then saddened as reality dawned, the Snick stopped to look at his victims. Victims! The thought and blame began to sear. He knew now that these beings were not the masterhost,that none of the ones he had encountered had experienced the ecstasy before, andthat none would experience it again. He recognized then the fleeting glimpse of the something leaving the contact. heading Earthward. It would take months for them all to gather, but the first would arrive within days. The last Man would be gone before the last Snick had heard the call.      IF The Iron Thom He had dreamed of Earth all his life. Now he was there -- and the dream had spoiledi What has gone hefore  Honor Jackson used to be an ignorant, graceless savage, fighting Amsirs and hating farmers on the ruddy wastes of Mars. But all that has changed, now; Susiem, the cybernetic spaceship he has stolen from the Amsirs, has given him a Bachelor of Arts degree from Ohio State. Now Jackson knows enough to wear clothes, and enough to understand how he came to be a child of the Iron Thorn. The Thorn is a towering climatological control device located in the center of a Martian crater. A small tribe of humans had managed to make its home there, and, as long as they didnt stray too far from the Thorn, could go on living long enough to procreate not only their own kind but the whole batch of half-truths and legends which, a thousand years since Susiem was stranded on Mars, Jackson has now learned to scorn. Obviously, Mars was the site of some sort of experiment run by Associated Midwest Universities. Much closer to where Susiem stood was another Thorn, around which flock Amsirs -- humans genetically modified to breed true in the form of winged, armored, lichen-eating creatures. The experiment had been running for a thousand years now. With the passage of time and the accumulation error, the experiment had become completely misunderstood both by the barbaric Amsirs and the neolithic human control group, resulting in a situation Susiem cbuldn't understand. Not understanding, and out of touch with Earth, she persistently did nothing. But by simple force of native talent, Jackson managed to outwit not only her, but, before that, his own kind, and the Amsirs. He did not quite blunder aboard Home Free. With him came Ahmuls, an Amsir sport with soft skin, not much brains, but very fast reflexes. It had been Ahmuls s job to kill Jackson if he tried anything funny with Susiem. But part of Jacksons computer-implanted university training had included a course in unarmed combat, and Ahmuls was sullenly cowed by the time Susiem, Jackson and he reached Earth, after he had had his damages repaired by Susiem s doctor, and Jackson had been ministered to for various scars and hurts inflicted during his adventures. The newly sophisticated Jackson feels responsible for Ahmuls, and frets over what will happen to him once Susiem docks at the Associated Universities facilities. But a thousand years have gone by since Susiems last up-dating. She lands on a grassy plain, with nothing visible except an occasional distant white villa, and a smoothly pastoral landscape. She is immediately disassembled by self-propelled, miniaturized units -- some flying, like insects, and others burrowing, like insects -- and her components are either carried away for salvage or buried in the ground, presumably to restore something of the organic balance of nature. Ahmuls and Jackson are left standing there, Ahmuls naked and unashamed, Jackson dressed in captains coveralls and rather nonplussed, as the naked inhabitants of Earth approach. H e was very heavy in the limbs. wasn't slumped like Ahmuls, but he was very heavy in the limbs. And Ahmuls was right -- they didn't have any clothes on. They were a bunch of men and women, about thirty of them altogether. The first one of them -- a man, with long, clean limbs, and much more smoothly and heavily muscled than anyone Jackson had ever actually seen -- gracefully walked up into sight from a hidden hollow nearby and stood in ankledeep grass, looking at the two of them. Then he half turned, and motioned behind him, and the rest of IF them came up. They were all adults, and they moved with a kind of confidence that reminded him of Amsirs. They had apparently been doing something together down in that hollow, out of sight, and that was how they had managed to surprise him. For the nearest villa was much too far away for anyone from there to have made it this far in the little space of time since Susiem had landed, died and been buried. He felt heavy, and he felt surprised. Looking at them, he knew something of what they were. They were people who had eaten right all their lives; lived right, had the right kind of doctoring. They were the people sprung from the kind of person he himself had been when he "was" at Ohio State. One of the things he had learned from "being" at Ohio State was that bio-transmitted memories were convincing, reliable and in some ways utterly irrelevant. He even knew how to look at himself. He was undersized, too gangling, too long of leg, too hollow of stomach. His skin was like seamed leather; his eyes were pits, icy blue without a trace of melanin, their whites as white as smooth, wet bone. His hair was a short, raggedly cut thatch of brittle straw. In his borrowed coveralls, he was a parody. Their men were too big; their women were too smart. They came walking in toward him and Ahmuls as if none of them had ever stepped on a cockleburr. Well, what was he going to do? He couldn't even rip off the coveralls and be himself. For one thing. it would be completely gauche, to realize so late that he had landed here in a cyberneticized, landscaped paradise; in a world a thousand years younger than he was even when he was young enough to worry about being gauche, and educated enough to know what being gauche felt like. "See? Told you -- no clothes." "Right. My apologies, Ahmuls." "Your what?" "I mean I'm sorry." The buzzing of the insects had stopped. Now he could hear the murmur of the soft wind through the pliant grass and take time to feel the warmth of the wonderful sun on his face and hands. He could even remember what it had been like strolling along the shade-dappled groves of State, and the slumberous delight of baking for hours in the sun of Jackson Park beach when he was at Chicago. I'm home, he thought, I'm home where I've never been, and I have to state my claim to it. As he began to feel the onset of oncoming voices, their murmuring as the people spoke between themselves, he shook his head to clear it, feeling the knots growing in the muscles of his neck. They had reached him. Some of them were raising itheir hands in casual greeting, and smiting. They were all taller than he was. One of the men said: "Hello, there. Comp tells us you're from that genetic experiment on Mars, both of you. Tell you the truth, the Comp had never told us about the experiment before. There was a great range of new data when that spaceship came down with you and prompted us to ask about it. Biggest thing in years. It's great. Welcome." Their accent was a bit far from the Midwest he knew. But it wasn't unintelligible. He could could already feel himself sorting it out properly. C omp would be Central Control; the thing that guided the insects, that determined the fate of spaceships, of specimens from the genetic experiment on Mars, of the landscape which no longer needed more than a minimum of serviceable features. It had happened here, some time after Susiem left. They had gotten their machines properly centralized under one control, and here he was, among the people it serviced. But I'm one of you, he thought. My body wasn't born among you, but my mind was. "I'm glad to meet you," he said honestly. "This is Ahmuls, and I'm -- " A wicked little relay closed inside his mind. He grinned. "I'm Jackson Greystroke. I was raised by jungle beasts." He had said the right thing. They were all smiling. Two of the girls pursed their lips like ripe plums. "Marvelous!" the man said. "Come and have breakfast with us," he said. "My name is -- ah, Kringle. These aire my sons; Dasher, Comet and Cupid. My daughters. Dancer and Vixen. My other sons; Donder, Blitzen, and Prancer. I'll let these other people tell you who they are -- I wouldn't presume to. At any rate, come on, let's all grab a bite, and we can talk." It was amazing, being with people who could pick up like that. "Come on, Ahmuls," Jackson said, feeling better and better, lofted on a cloud of names as the remainder of these people made introductions for themselves -- Cincinnatus, Columbus and Elyria -- Perry, Clark, Lois and Jimmy -- Fred and Ginger -- Lucky, Chester, Sweet, Home and Piedmont (who was glanced at with some disappointment by some of the others when she gave her name) -- Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborne. He found that he got them all straight, and kept them all straight. They all fit. Even when Piedmont said, shamefacedly: "I goofed. I should be Pall." "I'm hungry," one of them said from the back of the group. "We're ready," Jackson smiled. "And thank you for the invitation. Let's go," he said again to Ahmuls. "Don't want to eat with you," Ahmuls said. "Don't want to eat with these people." Jackson felt the tiniest flutter of air. A voice spoke in his ear. Out of the corner of his eye he caught a glimpse of something bright, metal and hovering. "This is Comp," the voice said. "He needn't worry. There'll be food of his kind too." Ahmuls said: "What did it say?" "He said he loves you. Come on." Some of them were already beginning to walk away, back toward the hidden hollow. Jackson took a step to follow them, stopped, frowned at Ahmuls, turned his head back to watch them go, looked back at Ahmuls. "Come on!" He moved his hand quickly, and it felt heavy. IF Ahmuls' eyes daried to follow his hand. "Don't." He got himself into motion, one hand to the right side of his face, holding his eyelid so he could watch Jackson from the farthest corner. The group of them walked over the grassy rise of ground. Durstine murmured, her perfume very near to Jackson: "I wish I'd brought some clothes." Jackson stopped looking at Ahmuls and grinned at her. She raised one eyebrow back, touched her glistening upper lip with the tip of her tongue, and laughed. I t was a fine morning. Their breakfast things were set down in the grass, on a cloth -- doubtless woven on the spot by bees -- and the graceful cups and dishes were of earth colors, delicately shaped. Shaped delicately enough, it occurred to him, to be attractive not only to man but to insect as well. He breakfasted on tamales, Riesling and conversation while Comp's bees brought Ahmuls lichen. They made no dishes for him. Either Comp felt that Ahmuls's hands would break chunks from any utensils the bees might make, or Comp was disinclined to produce anything clumsy enough to be sturdy enough. Jackson's senses were much occupied with the vivacious scent of women, with the sound of words sung, not grunted or cawed, with a sky of perfect blue. Thornless. If he watched Ahmuls, it was infrequently and from the corner of his eye. "So it's really not much different from the way you remember it," Kringle was saying. "I imagine you've got the picture. Comp reached the serviceability threshold shortly after the Martian experiment was started. And at that point it became unnecessary for people to concern themselves with management. "But we still have the same old services; food, clothing -- or the control of factors that normally make clothing necessary -- and shelter. Well, in actual fact the distinction between clothing and shelter has disappeared, with the distinction between genial and hostile environment. But it's really, about the same. There aren't as many of us. Frankly I feel that a great deal of the procreative urge is actually a reflection of panic or boredom. We have very little of either. So that's all to the good. And, well, it's a ball. As I've said, welcome!" He was so self-possessed, so obviously independent of anything what used to be called "the world" could do to him, that Jackson could really, strongly, feel how fortunate it had been that he had found a way to communicate immediately with this sort of person. Jackson thought -- with all his customary speed -- that all the same instincts that had made him such a fast and agile killer, such a selffKssessed hunter, so obviously not one of the ordinary run around the Thorn, still served him in this new world. It was marvelous -- not faggoty marvelous; it was, truly, a marvel, and of marvels, and replete with marvels (how quickly his mind responded to the stimuli of education!) -- that all his life, no matter where he had been, or what he had been doing, he had possessed the qualities necessary to be able to sit here at breakfast with these superb people. He began to chuckle, watching Ahmuls with lichen in his mouth and bees darting at his face. My God, my God, Jackson thought, who would believe it? Where are the Amsirs, and where are all the people who believed in Ariwol? I made it. I made it by being me. I made it by not holding still when they wanted to make me stay; when they were afraid I'd prove what they were. And yet, in looking back, he couldn't honestly say that he had ever told himself that there was something better. He had only never ceased to feel that there was something terribly wrong. And he had never even tried to change them. He had only had the wit not to let them change him. What a great deal of wit that was I Pure instinct, pure sense of self had sav him from missing this reward of being here. He began to laugh even louder as it occurred to him what an incredible, marvelous, wonderful thing he'd done. He was here by right. He was one of them. Watching him laugh, they smiled. Little Pall held out a cup of wine. Her large brown eyes were twinkling again, as they had no doubt always been intended to. "It is nice, isn't it?" she said. "It must feel good." It was beyond his wildest dreams. He sat on the grass with his knees drawn up, sipping wine and feeling the heavy familiar touch of Earth upon him. "So, as I understand it," he said to Kringle, delightedly continuing their conversation, listening to the concepts roll trippingly from his tongue, "there's really no further need to take time in accumulating credit toward necessities. In that event, what do people do to fill the day's time?" Kringle looked a little nonplussed. "That's a factual question," he complained. O ne of the tiny silver bees detached itself from the swarm around Ahmuls, zipped over to Jackson and said: "This is Comp. The people you're with are members of the most populous class of individuals. That is to say, the naturalists. Naturalists practice the living of pure life. This human preoccupation is, of course, a new one, in the sense that there had never been individuals totally free of managerial concerns. As you can guess, this is the first type of individual capable of disregarding his own true physical situation or the estate of his factual accumulation. Accordingly, these people have no thought and perform no action which is not straightforwardly derived from the impulses of the psyche. "Since psychical development is conditioned by stimulus, and all stimuli to this class of individual are autistic, there is reason to believe that the minds of this class are qualitatively different from any mind previously attainable by the physical interactions of the human brain. So at some finite point in time this class IF of individual will represent a humanoid, but non-human, true#reeding race native to this planet. We will then see the phenomenon of a new genus created entirely by mechanical manipulation of the environment -- that is to say, by the exercise of my facilities. "In other words, we're talking pure Lamarck. I find the entire concept fascinating. "The second major but far less populous class is composed of individuals who are to a large extent concerned with me. That is to say, the technophiliac type, who normally cling somewhat closer to home -- that is, to a conservative pattern of movement about the face of the Earth -- and with whom I maintain close liaison. These receive a running thorough education in all branches of technology and neurophysiology bearing on my construction, operation and maintenance. "The principle here is that individual intelligences are theoretically open to flash error. That is to say, considering the speed of neurophysiological interaction, and the complexity of the structures involved, it is possible for a brain to be thoroughly sane at any given point of time, to have then made one mipoint, and to have then reached a point of extrapolative total error -- that is, insanity -- within a matter of microseconds subsequent to the initial point. "Therefore, it is of advantage to me to maintain a pool of individual intelligences with whom I can maintain meaningful intercommunication. #'Irom my point of view, the JO purpose of supporting such a class of individuals is the availability of an emergency correction and repair device independent of my own neurophysiological system. "From the point of view of the individuals concerned, the value lies in giving them something to tMuk about, and an eventuality to plan for. "The odds against an error on my part involving not only my primary systems but my backups, and my repair and auto-psychiatric circuitry, are astronomical. That is, they are finite, but rather large. Not once, since my primary circuits crossed the threshold into complete managerial awareness, has there been any need for any intelligence other than my own to supervise my intelligence and capabilities. Nevertheless, at some point during a finite though large number of years, such a need -- theoretically -- will arise. I say, 'theoretically.' In any event, it's a great comfort to both parties in this arrangement. "There are a number of other categories, but they are all essentially similar. They are the category of individuals who have institutionalized various aspects of creativity. For example, sports and the arts. The chairman of the Toxophilite Society is currently working on the fourteenth volume of his compendium on the subject. He has furnished me, each month, with the latest updating of the rules for performing various evolutions of the limbs and torso required to flight an arrow at approved targets in regulation style. It keeps him happy, so why should I care? And he has a great number of assistants and fans who are also kept happy. "That's essentially the picture. Nobody ever gets hurt, statistically speaking. And there's no problem to repairing an occasional accident to either the body or the mind of any individual. Personally I find it all rather fascinating. And I'm sure that you, with your relatively naive viewpoint, will find it the same. "I think you might as well forget about asking broad-spectrum questions of any individual in this group, or in their class, because they rather expect me to handle that sort of thing. If you persist, you might even be considered gauche. I realize it's hard not to occasionally appear gauche in unfamiliar company. You can avoid that, if you'd like. I can have a thorough education delivered to you, more or less the same way as the academic credits Susiem gave you. Just say the word. But, if I were you, I'd first wait a while, and explore around a bit. You might not care to be thoroughly indoctrinated in any one set of mores so soon. You've only been here an hour or so; there's plenty of time left to decide which way you really want to swing. Meanwhile, just play it cool, and have a ball." W ell, all right. It would be very interesting, living the rest of his life with a gimmick that would murmur softly in his ear whenever he wanted a question answered, or confer another degree upon him whenever he wished to master a subject. He noticed that these people seemed to have no problems in dealing with social situations this could create. They had simply ignored him politely while he sat hstening to Comp, and had turned their attention to watching Ahmuls instead. Ahmuls was fidgeting, and swatting at the flying things around him. "No," he said. "I don't wanna eat this way. Fly away." Comp's exteroaffectors danced out of his way. Comp said to Jackson: "Is there anything you can do to make your friend less of a social liability to himself?" 'I can't even get him to like me." Ahmuls caught a bee. Durstine gasped: "He's so fast!" Ahmuls rolled the silvery exteroaffector between his fingertips. He grinned, one-handed. "Hard," he said, "but little." He flipped the bee to one side. He grunted at the breakfasters. "This is a crumby place. You don't fly, you don't fight. You got fliers, but they're little. You don't eat like you should." He got to his feet, pushing land straining, drooping. The insects still hovered around his face. When he was standing erect, Ahmuls was able to swat at them again. Durstine began to giggle. "It's not funny. Knew I shouldn't come here with you crazy people," Ahmuls said. "I'm goin' away; gonna find a better place." He turned, rippling turgidly, and began to move off. Kringle smiled. "I wonder where he'll find it." IF There was nothing out there but grass and white Walt Disney houses and exteroaffectors. "Heyl Wait! Hold on!" Jackson said, standing up. "Don't just go out there like that!" Ahmuls turned his head, holding his face. "What's it to you? Never gonna bother you. Just gonna go away, look around." Where was he ever going to find a place that was going to love him? Jackson took a couple of fast steps and caught up with him. He put his hand on the doughy shoulder. "Oh, now -- just wait," he found himself pleading. "Look, we just got here. You got to give it a chance. You've got to give yourself a chance. I mean, these people are happy this way. And I'm going to be happy here. You could -- " "I'm not like you. I'm not like them." "Say... Man to man on the prairie's endless waste, the sinewy Jackson Greystoke and his monstrous adversary faced each other," Chester remarked behind him. Durstine chimed in: "The battle of two superb, physical machines trembled on the brink of being joined. Here in this peaceful glade that had seen no violence in a decade of centuries, suddenly there was a reawakening of Earth's age-old heritage of struggle between brute strength and trained intelligence." Donder declaimed: "A still hush settled over the land, as Nature herself seemed to draw breath in anticipation of the awful onslaught." "What? What are they talkin' about?" Ahmuls muttered. J ackson looked over his shoulder. Kringle, Durstine and some of the others were staring toward him and Ahmuls, laughing-eyed. Some of the others were just plain eating, gracefully sipping and nibbling. All of them were lounging about, relaxed. Pall seemed a little interested. But people with large, moist eyes frequently seem emotional when in fact they are merely displaying a phenomenon of physiology. "Never mind," Jackson sighed. "You just go on and do what you want." Ahmuls said: "Should have said that to start with." He trudged up the slope of the hollow, was silhouetted massively against the pale horizon of late morning, and began to diminish from the legs up as he lumbered down the other side of the slope and out of Jackson's line of vision. "Comp," Jackson said, "you'll be keeping track of 'him, right?" "Oh, I always know where everybody is, of course," Comp said. "And I rather think I can predict where he'jll end up. Just as well. I can have permanent feeding facilities for him there, and I expect he'll be happy. It's a little tricky with an uneducable, as I imagine you know. But it's rather exciting for me, having what you might call a random factor to deal with." "Well, he's not educable in human terms. But you're not limited to Susiem's resources. Surely there's something you can do for him beyond simple maintenance," Jackson said. He walked back toward the breakfast group. "Don't see the need," Comp said. IF "He has no history, and no future. All his yearnings are self-contained. He needs no further education on that." Comp knew when a point was made. The bee flew away from beside Jackson's ear. "Looks like your faithful companion has left you, Masked Rider of the Plains," Kringle remarked as Jackson sat down again. "The only person he was ever faithful to is back on Mars," Jackson said. "That's if they haven't put somebody over him for the way he mishandled me." In the midst of all this, Jackson did wonder how the Amsir Eld was making out. "Well," Durstine said, "neither of you ever has to worry about that place again." "I suppose not," Jackson said. Her hand was petal-soft where her fingertips touched his as she passed him a tamale. Tamales were clad in pastry a lot like rough bread. Around the Thom, though, when a woman gave a Honor rough bread, she gave him rough fingers too. A t the end of breakfast they stood up and left everything for Comp to clear away. Little silvery things came out of the grass, nibbled swarmingly, and the cloth, the dishes and the leavings disappeared, bit by bit, lightning fast, into the earth from which they were sprung. Jackson grinned watching it, enjoying it. "Handy," he said. Durstine followed his glance. "Oh, the services, you mean. Yes." "Well," Jackson said, looking around. "Whait do we do now?" "Actually," Rringle said, "that depends pretty much on you. What would you iUke to do?" Fall said to Jackson: "I think we've been hoping you'd tell us a little bit about what your life was like." Durstine smiled. "Among the jungle beasts." "Well, I imagine Comp's told you how it all began. There was a period of time when it seemed like a good idea to produce gentically modified humans capable of living comfortably in hostile environments. A site was prepared on Mars, and a program of genetic manipulation was begun. The initial modified type, miscalled the 'Marser, was created capable of surviving imaided on the Martian surface for extended periods of time, provided it had a base genial environment to which it could return periodically. This completed Stage One of the program. "Stage Two would have either produced a true Marser capable of fulltime survival in the natural environment, or alternatively the Stage One type would have been given the technological capability of transforming the environment to the relatively slight degree required for its survival. "The crucial question was a political one. That is, whether the bioformed inhabitants of Mars should retain a psychic dependence on Earth and its history, or whether they should be made truly independent. The point being, they couldn't be made truly independent of the environment without also being truly independent of the universities which had put them there. "Well, there was considerable discussion back and forth about that, and a little trouble about getting next year's grant from the National Institute of Health. There was a cutback in the program. The human technicians on the site were told to establish a semipermanent base for themselves while the whole thing was being thrashed out. And so there came to be two adjacent Thorns." "We know all that," Bonder said with restraint. "Comp told us. The whole thing became academic anyhow, when Comp took over the services. You've got two equally intelligent races with essentially equal facilities, competing with each otiier in an uncontaminated environment. Clear-cut, educational. Like an ant farm. Comp explained it. All sorts of daita bound to result from it, for anybody who wants experimental data on social evolutionary factors. But, man, we don't want to hear any of that dry stuff. I mean, what was it like? What's this buiness about -- Amsirs? I mean, what kind of hunting is that?" "Yes," Durstine said, "show us!" Mmm, Jackson thought, looking at her, she'd like that. "Well," he said, "I'm a little short of the necessary tools." He held up his empty hands. "A little sihort of Amsirs, too." A voice said in his ear, "This is Comp. I can arrange that. Listen, I'd love to make a popular actuality of this." "A what?" "An actuality. It's no problem; I could make an Amsir for you -- excuse me; a Amsir -- and a throwing stick and a couple of darts. I have some very good footage of the Martian terrain from my orbiters up there." "Orbiters? You mean you've got eyes on Mars?" "Certainly. Quite a number. Our space exploration's quite sophisticated these days, compared to what it was when the primary system component was humanoid. But what I'm saying is that I have plenty of stock background, so you go ahead and hunt your Amsir. And the audience will see it with proper background and lighting. And perfect dubbing of the terrain. I am sure we can get you one hell of an audience for it. Wait one -- I'll ask around." #reat response," Comp said to Vj him a moment later. "We have over four hundred thousand lookers-in; thirty-eight per cent of the potential audience." "I don't think I understand. Thirty-eight per cent of the audience for what?" "The audience for your actuality, man. Look, the number of the audience and the number of the world population are theoretically congruent, right? In practice there are always some individuals asleep and some urgently occupied otherwise. So there's never been a hundred per cent audience for an actuality -- not the live version, at any rate. The record is eighty-three per cent or thereabouts, but that was for the IF competition between Melanie Altershot and Charles Dawn, and a very long time ago. Well, I queried the population for interest in a Amsir hon, and they're all waiting -- thirty-eight per cent of them are waiting now, and a number of others have expressed serious interest in taking on the delay. It hinges now think you should know there hasn't been a thirty-eight per cent audience in quite some time." "You know, we don't have all day," Donder said. "Well, I'd like to do it," Jackson said. "Right here, huh?" Besides the impatience on Bonder's voice, he had also noticed Vixen and Batten. The two of them now had some kind of flying toy they'd had Comp do for them. It was elfin; translucent lavender. It caracolled back and forth between them as they stood some distance apart from each other and flew it from hand to hand. The object seemed to be to make a pattern, for the marvelous toy trailed a feathery lavender wake which hung in the air briefly and then disintegrated into dusty filaments, crossing, criss-crossing and intertwining. They had begun this game while Comp was explaining actualities and Jackson was busy listening. One or two people in the group had stopped watching Jackson and had started watching the flight; from being a tight group around Jackson, these people had begun to spread toward Batten and Vixen, attenuating. "Sure," Jackson repeated. "Provide me with the tools and a Amsir." "Goodl" Durstine and Comp said simultaneously. Pall smiled. Jackson smiled back at her. "I know what it is," she said. "You never realized you'd get a chance here to do something you must have enjoyed so much." "Pall, darling," Old said, "one of the reasons I want to watch this is because it's done in a place where people do things they don't enjoy." Pall put her fingers to her mouth. "Oh, Jackson, I'm sorry," she said. I n this world, Amsir bones were made by insects. They came whipping in over the tops of the sougWng grass stems, in a swarm far smaller than the one that had devoted itself to Susiem, each carrying a little white speck. They buzzed, they grouped to some efficient shape, and in a thrice there was the stick. The place that would serve as the handle was properly reshaped as if by patient sanding; the hinge was neatly fitted, the nock for the dart's butt properly incised. Jackson picked it up and admired it. "It's very much like my own. Comp. Those are good scanners you've got." "How about the darts?" The short, bluntly tapered hafts had been produced the same way the throwing stick had been. The head was done by burrowing exteroof the ground, clustered at the head of each dart as bees held it in place, and withdrew leaving cooling, jaggedly pointed silicate heads fus into the cups that had been made there to receive them -- each, for all Jackson knew, already freighted with its dab of synthetic Amslr-hide glue. He picked them up and bounced them in his palm. He rolled them around with his fingers. "Good," he said. "Good, fine." He walked up the slope of the hollow and looked around. The landscape rolled away from him, empty. There was no sign of Ahmuls, or of anyone else. But there were a great many receptor bees clustering in the air up there. "Look to your left," Comp said. "I am starting your Amsir." About seventy-five yards away the exteroaffectors attacked the grass. They darted down to catch stems being hurled upto them by cutters on the ground. They seized them and pulled them up into position. They moved with great rapidity, dexterity, and econofny -- it was as if the grass had freed itself of compliance to the breeze and had decided to bend its own way. It bent in all directions toward a common center as the exteroaffectors took it, but as it bent it hurried forward rootless, and when it reached the center it fountained up, urged by splashes of buzzing silver, and there before Jackson's eyes they wove a Amsir's bones. Toe and tarsal, leg and knee, thigh and hip, they wove him from the inside out; spine, collarbone, shoulder joints, arms, elbows, forearms, hands -- he watched the little finger extend itself like the sihootings of a magic shrub. Neck and skull matted themselves into structural IF oompactness. Now, flesh; fibrous strands wrested into place upon the green bones. In a moment, he was all hooked up together. Then they clad him; hide was fitted, bubbles swelled. Beak and talons, crest and wings; lace, fluttering... fluttering pale; as he stirred there, with exteroaffectors burrowing nimbly between the fibers to give him life, he bleached. An army of burrowers came running forward, and fused the glistening fragments of his javelin. They tossed it upward; a low cast, but his wing rippled as his right hand swooped down to seize it, and holloweyed he straightened to turn his head and look at Jackson. "Comp, your name is miracle," Jackson said. "My name is Comp." Jackson opened down the Velcro of his coveralls and shrugged out of them. Immediately, exteroaffectors clustered around him. He winced as they plated his body everywhere with themselves. But the touch was gentle, and they were gone again in the blink of an eye. "Sunburn lotion," Comp explained. "Oh. Yeah, makes sense." He looked around to see what the breakfast group had made of all this. But there were none of them near him. They were all down in the hollow, sitting dr stretched out gracefully, each with an exteroaffector on each eye, at each ear, on each hand. A little string of them, like a girdle of small jewels, lay across each stomach just below the navel. Jackson look over at the grass Amsir standing alert in the middle of his patch of stubble. Jackson bent down, picked up the throwing stick and the two darts. The coveralls were gone, dissipated. "Ready any time you are, friend," he called to the Amsir. "Ready," Comp said in his ear, and withdrew. T he Amsir waved its javelincd hand to him. Jackson took a few quick steps; running on grass was different, but he remembered. Remembering it gave him Ohio feet instead of Thorn feet, but at least it gave him feet. He tried a few dry casts of the stick, slapped the spare dart up into him armpit and was off. He was playing it about the only way he could; as if he and the Amsir had each turned a shoulder of a dune at the same moment and had spotted each other at a distance. He ran away at an angle, down and across the slope of the land, picking up speed, ready to dive and roll straight downhill if the bird cast its javelin. The Amsir was turning. A thousand or ten thousand exteroaffectors shifted its weight, raised its arms, cocked its hips, raised its leg. It tipped forward, planted its leg, raised the other, and was running like the wind, lace streaming, wings unfurled. It ran down and across the slope of the land, diagonally away from him, cutting back across his line of flight, putting him in a position where he'd have to throw in the direction opposite to the one he was running in. Damn! Jackson thought. I forgot how smart they were. He looked back over his shoulder. The dark. wide, empty eyes were looking along a wing at him. Jackson got his legs out in front of him and set his feet. He was sliding to a stop. The Amsir grinned, spread his wings and hung stock-still in the air, legs free of the ground. His knees bent; one wing dropped, the other rose. He landed faced round on a dime, claws sunk in the tough grass, javelin poised. His leps began to scissor. He came on ' an ostrich, straight for Jackson, eaung up distance between them, confident he could duck. For Jackson to get up any momenitum to reach the Amsir with a dart, he would have to run straight toward him, now. If he ran to either side, the Amsir would have a clear shot. And the best Jackson could do would be to try something sidearm. If he ran away, the Amsir would run him down. Oh boy, Jackson thought. All right, let's try one on you. He took three steps forward, simultaneously loading the stick, and then with the fourth step he fired. Jesus, there was nothing on the throw. It was straight enough, but there was no whip to it; it was like throwing straight up. Or throwing with a sick arm. Fm made of gruel in this place! he thought. The dart might reach the Amsir, but he was a fool if he bothered to break stride long enough to duck. It would never get through his hide. It would hang tangled in his lace. Even if it happened to stick into him a little, it would have no stopping power. TTie dart reached the Amsir, who swayed clumsily to get out of its way. But he'd miscalculated. He ran right up on it. It took him in the chest, on the lower left, and it just seemed to keep going in past all reason. It went in up to the butt, with the sound of shocked fibers. The Amsir's legs went out from under him. He spread his wings for balance, dropping the javelin. "The dart. Give him the other dart!" Comp said quickly in Jackson's ear. "Right." The Amsir was all spread out, and had no traction. Jackson fired the second one, and this time he had enough practice to really step into it. He could feel it all up and down his arm and across his back, clear down to the sole of his foot, like a rope of electricity. He threw that dart harder than he had ever thrown in his life, and to reward him it took off feeling about half as good as it should have. But it got to the grass Amsir all right; it went in below his right collarbone, and it came out the other side, carrying about two or three yards beyond him, tumbling, looping down and bouncing on the ground, with a trail of tom grass floating out in the air behind it. The Amsir's right wing folded back as if the hinge locks had failed on a carrier-based aircraft. He ground-looped around the surface of his left wing and nosedived heavily to the prairie. You could hear his neck pop. "He's dead," Jackson said. Comp said, "Listen." The sound was incomprehensible. It sounded like what you might hear if you ran as fast as you could, dragging a spear point-down through IF rough sand. "What the hell is that?" "That's applause, Jackson. That's the applause of thirty-eight per cent of the world's popidation. I've got the gain turned down, some." J ackson walked over to the dead Amsir. It lay sprawled where he had dropped it, all broken, Jackson's first dart just peeping out of its chest. There was a rustling and a shaking; it slumped, its tissues separating. The little metal insects came out of its fibers, and each took its little bit of dead grass away. Others came popping up to join them. The Amsirs's wings became insubstantial; its body flattened. Its skull uncurled, and quick as that the burrowing exteroaffectors were scurrying off with its components, a straw-and-metal wave, still roughly in the shape of a fallen Amsir's silhouette, hurrying through the grass, back to the stubble patch, there to return its elements to the soil. A buzzing cluster chew through the javelin and the darts; Jackson dropped the throwing stick into the midst of them, and they snapped it up. The breakfast group came up over the crest from the hollow, their faces flushed, their eyes sparkling. Dancer broke into a sprint toward Jackson, and as soon as one of them had done it, the rest of them followed suit. They came springing up to him, laung, delighted with him. Jackson was watching the stubble patch. Where clear droplets of water were forpiing on the clipped stems. Kringle threw his arm around Jackson's shoulders and hugged him. "Terrific!" he said. "Just great!" "You were fine!" Durstin gasped. "Unbelievable!" They crowded around him, their bodies warm. "Wouldn't you like to see it?" Pall asked. "Yes! He ought to see it!" Jimmy agreed, and the rest of them took that up, smiling and laughing, pressing some sort of feast upon him. Comp said: "Here -- " Exteroaffectors landed like butterflies at his ears and eyes. They touched his palms and his belly. "Ail that's involved is my getting in phase with the appropriate sectors of your central nervous system," Comp explained. "Just relax. Many people prefer to sit or lie down, but it's not necessary." They were all around him. Jackson had never had that happen to him before; all of them were radiating at least ninety-eight point six degrees Fahrenheit. At that temperature, they were creating all kinds of ranges of evaporation at their bodily surfaces, and none of them were insulated, nor was he. All kinds of effluents were being volatilized in close proximity to his olfactory receptors and the thermesthetic components of his own system. He sank down to the grass, hugging his knees. They sank down with him, all around him, smiling encouragingly and watching him. He closed his eyes. "That's right," Comp said. "Now here we go..." T he desert faded in. First there was a long shot of the two craters and the two Thoms, from a higji altitude. The edge of the planet curved, nearly undiffused, against Star-filled space. Then his point of view transmitted into tighter and tighter focus on the human crater, until it was a tight shot of the desert at dawn, reddish-purple, rolled up into dunes, with the harsh light of morning upon it. The point of view pulled in even tighter, until all there was to see was a flat, featureless, uniformly granular, unmarked field of desert-color. That point of view held for a beat; then an Amsir's white claw flashed down into the middle of it, thrust with a thump in running stride across the granules, scattering them. It flashed up and forward, out of the point of view, and was gone, leaving everything as before except for the pit of its print, whose sides began to crumble and flow. Light sparkled from one granule, and Jackson's attention followed it as it slid down the side of the footprint. It had not touched bottom before, with a thump!thump!, human running feet crossed quickly from right to left, kicking the Amsir-print out of existence, leaving their own. The point of view shifted up, and he caught a glimpse of a running, naked Honor, and then, ahead of him, the bobbing form of an Amsir. There was a jump cut, and the Amsir was running toward the point of view, grinning straight ahead. Another jump, and now it was Jackson running by himself; for the first time, Jackson could be sure it was him and not a piece of stock footage, for he could see the scar on his shoulder, and then the profile of the uncapped face. His lips were drawn back. His teeth were white and wet; the point of view filled with the side of his face, squinting, then the eyes snapping wide open -- every pore, and every delicate blond hair growing whitely at the tops of his cheekbones above the line of his beard. The cut this time was to a medium down shot of the two of them. Jackson was running, his head turned to look back over his shoulder. There was a shot of his feet jamming to a halt in the sand, fighting for purchase. Now the Amsir, braking in midair, changing direction. Now, Jackson's first shot. The dart slapped into place on the stick. There was a beautiful slow-motion study of the muscles working in time, taken from behind him as he made the recovery from his stop and worked the cast of his stick. His arm flowed the throwing stick upward, the dart in its nock, poised, head sparkling. The motion began to speed, until as the dart came into line with the Amsir and he snapped it free the motion went into overspeed. The muscles of his right arm and of his stomach twanged with force as he shot the dart, which whipped through the air and sank into the Amsir's chest. It came in so fast that the bird didn't even begin to duck until after he'd been hit. Now the Amsir hung in the air for a split second, in mortal trouble, wide open. The point of view jumped around Jackson like a carousel; he could see every move of his feet and legs, every twist of his torso, the tight strain of his left hand as he IP whipped it down, the flow of his right arm. There was an extreme closeup of the second dart as it whipped hack across and below the horizon, then whipped forward again, as if the dart were motionless and the world were spinning. And then there was a medium long shot of the Amsir taking the second dart and breaking his wing -- actually seen in extreme closeup, reflected in the dilated pupil and the bottomless iris of Jackson's left eye. The background music, which had built up and over the sound of Jackson's forced breath with a crescendo of wood-block slaps, cut off. Jump cut to the Amsir's head impacting on the There was a medium closeup, facing Jackson, of him standing there, the empty stick dangling in his hand, his shoulders slumped. He was wiping his face and taking a deep breath. Then the point of view pulled back and up; there was a long shot, still trucking back, of Jackson looking toward the Amsir lying all crumpled up on the terrain, dwindling as the shot pulled back far enough so that the planet's horizon came back into view again. The camera panned to the stars, toward the Sun, became filled with hot white light, and then, on an accent clack from the wood blocks, cut out to T hey were all around him; he opened his eyes, and they were sitting there right on top of him, damn near, touching him, grinning, laughing, saying: "Didn't we tell you! Great! Absolutely great #" Kringle said: "I'd had no idea of how it was. It's never really possible to reach an intellectual grasp of a totally alien environment. That's why actualities are so superbly fitted to the didactic purpose. It's all very well to be given a series of facts for the brain to digest, but when you want to convey the immediacy of a situation, you've got to hit 'em right in the guts. Only way to do it. And I don't mind telling you. I've been hit." Vixen said breathlessly: "I feel as if my entire life's been changed." She was hanging onto his arm. Well, people never believed a thing until they touched it. "Hey, Comp," Jackson said, "why didn't I understand that thing? Was that supposed to be a Amsir hon?" "I don't -- oh. Yes I do. You're talking about the editing and the direction. I should have realized; yes, I imagine it does look quite different in the finished version from the way it feels to you while you're performing the action. But you have to realize that the way it feels to you is made up of experiences, whereas to them it's made up of appearances. It would be dull as ditchwater if I were to simply present a running record of the action from a fixed point of view. No, in order to give these people the feeling of what it's really like, considerable skill must be exercised in arranging the patterns of action in a way that will be meaningful to them. And it is meaningful; look at them reacting!" "Full of tricked-up dub-ins, and shots jumping around like a nut?" "It's what they need in order to be able to feel it. Believe me, a great deal of skill and intuition went into that production, and none of the effects were selected lightly. You want to remember, Jackson, that all you had to do was react naturally. Im the one who had to manage it from scratch." "I suppose that includes the dumb way I was able to kill that fake in the first place." "If you're referring now to the Amsir's dull reactions at the crucial moment, you want to bear in mind that your reflexes and capabilities aren't yet coordinated with the physical properties of this environment." Comp chided him: "We couldn't very well have the Amsir hon you to death, could we?" Jackson shook his head. The peolistening to exteroaffectors, getting all worked up about something new. "What are you telling them now, while you're talking to me?" "Oh, there's been a world-wide reaction to the actuality. I'm running a great number of relays to individuals who've been clued in by the live audience. Your total's well over fifty per cent at this point, and accelerating. You're getting great word-of-mouth on this piece." Pall took his hands. Her eyes were shining. "Jackson, Jackson, do you know what we're going to do?" "'Fnaid not." He said it pretty geady. "We're going to have an -- oh, excuse mel -- a honing party!" Jackson turned to Kringle: "You're going to have a what?" Kringle's eyes were twinkling. "Watch!" He waved his arm, and the babble of cross-exclamations that had burst out among the breakfast group fell away to a background murmur. "What do you say? Shall we have a Thorn?" Yesr "Comp..." Kringle said. Oh, the sweet, passionate smell of them! A dozen buzzings trembled faintly all around the horizon. Jackson turned to look. There were shimmerings around the low white houses, under the trees. The trees themselves were glinting, and then trees and houses had disappeared in a silver mist, and the air shivered with the sound of flying. Jackson kept turning, watching. Kringle chuckled. The grass quivered everywhere, as if someone hidden under a bed had reached up and begun to pull on the blanket. "I'm going to have to move you for a few minutes," Comp said. "If you'll just step on board...'..." Durstine tugged on his hand. "This way." Not all of Comp's exteroaffectors in this area were devoting themselves to the trees and the white houses. Behind Jackson's back, some of them had put together a webwork of metal, its struts and stanchions curving and curlicuing every which way, with hammocks and canopies extended from it, tassels swaying enticingly, fountains sheeting crystalline auroras from pool to lower pool to IF lower pool, step by step, to the accompaniment of delicately chiming music. It all made an insouciantly variform cloud of nooks and crannies-within-crannies, yet open enough within itself so that the breakfast group's members could call back and forth and laugh to each other as they clamored about within it. Durstine tugged him inside, and the cloud lifted away from the surface of the prairie, drifting off to one side as it gained altitude, until they were all perched a hundred yards up in the air, reclining, clambering, joking back and forth, whispering excitedly. A pleasant breeze swept through the structure. Droplets from the fountains tickled Jackson occasionally. Pall's upturned face peeked out from between two curling metal leaves farther down within. She wrinkled her nose at him and waved. Meanwhile, Comp was making a party Thorn. The cloud drifted languidly above roaring torrents of exteroaffectors. They swirled through the air, rushing in from all directions, converging. Where they met, some swirled into subsidiary pools, other bloomed upward in flashing combers, with little flecks of a kind of spray flashing away from their tips as they delivered their freight and went flitting away for another load. The fabric of the cloud thrummed to the cataract sound; parts of it -- leaves and flowers -- began to chime in counterpoint to the fountain music. "Look! Look!" Durstine breathed, her upper arm across his shoulders from a little behind him, her forearm bent to lie down across his biceps. Her voice was in his ear. The exteroaffectors pulled away from the plain below. Only a conical, thick cluster of them, a hundred feet across, hung in the air above the plain, and then these unwound in a spiral from the bottom. As they unwound, Jackson could see that they were finishing the upper stretches of the Thorn. Down on the ground, in a gay, fluttering circle, pavilions, bountifully striped and decorated, circled around the Thorn between a turf running track and beautiful fields delimited by clipped green hedgerows. He looked again, and the Thorn was done; straight, tall, shimmering, with flags in its antennas. "It's gorgeous," Jackson said. The cloud sank down to the turf between the Thorn and the pavilion houses, and everyone ran off to drink from the fountains. The fountains were spotted around its base, where he remembered taps. Pall was bent, hair falling about her cheeks in two short, sculptured wings, sipping from her cupped wet hands, where he remembered Petra Jovans. T he Thorn was warm, and gently yielding when he touched it. He couldn't make up his mind what color it was; in some places it was off-black, with wine-dark highlights. As he shifted his gaze, he could see places where it was as green as a fly. He stood back, gawking like a tourist, his head going from side to side, admiring the way the flagged antenna raked against the pure blue sky. He crossed his arms across his chest, oupping his elbows. "Oh, it's going to be such a great time!" Pall exclaimed, running up wet-lipped. "Just everyone will be watching the actuality of it!" Jackson nodded. "I believe it." Then he smiled, looking at her. What the hell -- I mean, he thought, if she looked like a kid, you'd watch your mouth, wouldn't you? He felt a touch on his arm. This Durstine, now... "Let's go inside," she was saying. "Wouldn't you like to look around in there?" " 'Scuse us, Pall," Jackson said. "Oh, that's all right. I have to go change anyhow, and I want it to be a surprise!" She ducked off toward one of the pavilions. "I'll be changing, too," Durstine said. "But we have a moment." He followed her into the Thorn through a wide, elaborate doorway, and it was like slipping into a sea of jewel soup. The Thorn was hollow inside, all the way to the top, but webbed by crystal filaments that spun themselves glittering in swa)dng curtains and loops, on up to disappear in the soft shadows overhead. Through the translucent walls of the Thorn came light, and the walls of the Thorn were all colors; green and gold, red and violet, blue and rust. The colors swirled and swept about each other in a pattern different from the notquite-random swirlings of the inner webwork, which took what it pleased of them and threw it back to Jackson and Dmstine in a shower of shifting pinpoints. He looked at her, and she was mottled with glory. She laughed and tossed her head, then stood motionless, looking at him between the lashes at the comer of one eye. "Welcome to Earth," she said. "I wanted you to see this." She turned gracefully, on tiptoe, raising one arm in a gesture that swept around the interior of the Thorn. It was hard to tell whether she meant the Thorn, or herself, or both. "I'll see you here again, a little later. I'm going to go change... you might not recognize me, gowned. Ordinarily. But you will this time, at least. I promise. I promise with all my heart." She laughed gaily, secretively; her hand flashed out. Her fingernails trailed down his upper arm lightly enough, but by the time they reached his elbow they left a mark, and her middle finger drew a drop of blood. She touched it to her lips, kissed him on the mouth and walked away, looking back over her shoulder for a moment. Icople were beginning to come in to the Thorn; bees were listening to them, and exteroaffeotors were beginning to pelt about, making and bringing whatever was wanted. There began to be music. Jackson noticed that they weren't especially dressed. Oh, Elyria wore hoops of fine-spun wire around her neck, in a golden cascade, and Bonder had on a pair of black hornrimmed glasses with flat windowpane lenses. Lois had clad one arm in silvery chain mail to the shoulder, and so forth. But it was the light that decorated them. As they IF shifted back and forth, talking, gesticulating, beginning to warm up to the occasion, they gained and lost patterns that shifted over their skins. They weren't eating or drinking, much. They were talking mostly. In fact, some of them were sitting very still, eyes half closed, heads bent, as if completely lost in private worlds. Often enough, one or another of them would smile at him, raise a hand, and look friendly and delighted to have him here. But none of them were really getting into conversation with him. They were much more interested in whatever it was that went on in their heads while they waited for a party to start swinging. It was Vixen who started the ball rolling. Standing a little off to one side, she'd have been frowning and swaying her body just slightly. Jackson had been watching her curiously, while he stood around waiting to see what would happen when Durstine -- and Pall, too -- came in. He happened to be watching when she suddenly snapped her fingers and said delightedly: "Got it!" "What? What do you have?" Ginger asked, and as Vixen grinned, heads began to turn. Vixen took two or three steps forward, walking in a peculiar way. As she moved, she seemed to gain confidence; her movements became more pronounced and regular, and a little smile played around the corners of her mouth. She walked that way to the center of the circle made by the Thom's floor. She had everybody's attention, now, and the light began to change. A glow began to come over the crystalline draperies, and soft, golden light began to grow in a dome, starting at the Thorn's floor, and working its way up the interior walls, until they were all standing in a crystal-clear bath of it. "Jackson! Jackson -- look!" Vixen came walking toward him, one hand on her hip, the other extended in a graceful arch over her head, palm flat, fingers up. She smiled at him and reached with the other hand, and lifted something imaginary from the top of her head. She bent slightly at the waist, holding out her hands. "Water, Honor?" The party burst into applause. Vixen smiled shyly, laughed a little, and retreated. Apparently, it had been intended to be some kind of pantomime. But that wasn't how you carried water; you cradled water in your arms. "Well! That was a good beginning, wouldn't you say?" Kringle said, slapping him on the back. "I'd say she really conveyed the idea, wouldn't you?" He peered a little more closely at Jackson's face. "No? Well, perhaps there were certain minor crudities in her performance." A little knot of Vixen's particular friends was clustering around her, congratulating her. "But it was certainly good enough for a beginning," Kringle said. Donder stepped forward. He stood in the center of the floor, and raised his hand negligently. A hush fell over the crowd. Donder took a breath and began to speak: "De. Be borriy be loud, be running, but die. Those of us born Thorn-children suck that in our milk. Hey, Thorn: We spit your word on you. He bow to Jackson, flushed, a sheen of sweat across his brow. They started to applaud. Then one of them remembered something, and began to snap his fingers. The inside of the party Thorn crackled with the odd sound of it. "How 'bout that, Jackson?" Bonder called out to him. "Sort of puts it all in a nutshell, doesn't it?" Jackson asked Kringle: "Does he mean, the way people feel about the Thorn? I mean, does he feel that way about the thing that keeps him alive?" A very slight frown appeared between Kiingle's brows again. "I think if you examine your internal processes, you might find he came somewhat closer than you might be ready to admit." He raised his voice and called to Bonder: "Beautiful, son! Now, gang," he called out to the assembled company, "we all want to remember that our guest isn't completely familiar with our customs. But we all know he's going to catch on in no time." Comp said in Jackson's ear: "Listen, they need the feedback of your approval, or the party's going to lose its impetus." "Oh," Jackson said. "Look! Here's Pall!" Clark pointed at the entrance. S he came in shyly, holding her hands folded in front of her. Hanging around her waist was a ragged white drape of fabric; scant, pure unblemished white, high on one hip and low on the other, the loose, tom threads of its hem brushing her at mid-thigh at its lowest point. She came walking up to Jackson, looking at the ground. As she got closer to him, Jackson could see that there were grains of sand worked into her hair, and streaked smudges from it on her body. The smudges had clearly defined edges, and they weren't any darker at the knees; there weren't little rings of it in the skin around her wrists, and there wasn't a deeper smudge of it at the base of her neck, in the hollow where perspiration would have washed it in the course of the day. But by now, Jackson had the idea. "Welcome home. Honor," she said submissively, and the Thorn seemed to fill with the sound of the group's approval -- a great appreciative roar that was compounded of applause and outcries of admiration. "Tremendous!" Kringle said. "Look at her, Jackson!" he lowered his voice. "My dear -- was that truly an original thought of yours? That's marvelous. Marvelous. Jackson, you do see it, don't you? She's made a work of art of herself! This is doubly exciting: our little PaU " Pall was blushing. "Thank you so much, Kringle." She didn't quite know what to do with her hands; obviously, it was the first time in her life she'd ever gotten a compliment for her creativity. "Actually," she said, "you see. I'm such a naive person, really -- oh, Kringle will tell you I'm not, but he's just being IF polite -- I finally thought to myself: 'Well, if you're naive, and there doesn't seem to be anything you can do about it, you might as well do something constructive with it, wouldn't you think? Why don't you -- ' So I did! That's really all there was to it. I just did, that's all. I said to myself, the thing to do is take what you have, and use it!" "I think you did fine," Jackson said. "I thi the subtle touch of presenting yourself not only as a work of art, but as a work of art with a duality of meaning, is an example of the vitality inherent in the natural response." He smiled at her, and touched her lightly on the shoulder. The Thorn broke into fresh applause. "It's of course the hard underlying base of the subtle but primary implication that really makes it work," he said, looking sincerely into her eyes as they sparkled with fulfillment. Suddenly those eyes brimmed over, and two perfect tears flowed down her cheeks. "Thank you," she breathed so softly that the nearest sound receptor had to dart in a little closer, and hovered like a humming bird at her lips. P all was circulating among the people, being congratulated by everyone, not just her particular friends. She walked like a debutante. Jackson stood rubbing his left elbow. Perry had been working at something, behind a bunch of other people. "Hey, look at what Perry's got!" they began to exclaim, crowding in behind them. "Hold on, now! Everybody'll get a chance to see it!" Perry growled in a guff, good-natured way. Exteroaffectors carried it out to the middle of the floor for him, and put it up on three graceful, thin metal legs. High above, a rope of light kindled itself among the higher traceries of crystal, and concentrated its beam upon the painting. "Jackson! Come forward, Jackson!" Perry motioned urgently from beside the painting. "I dedicate this to you." Oh Jesus. But Jackson got himself moving, his legs sucking up through glue, and went to look at it. It had been done in wide, sometimes apparently labored, sometimes apparently glib strokes. It was full of all the wrong colors. What it showed was Jackson's Thom, in the distance, with the pale Sun behind it. Huddled at the base of the Thorn were square, nearly featureless blocks that you could tell were houses, because here and there there was a light iji a window. In the foreground of the painting, mostly in silhouette, with only a few details picked out here and there, was an Amsir lying on the blind slope of a dune, his head raised just enough so he could watch the Thorn and the houses. And off to one side, watching the Amsir, was the figure of a Honor, also blocked out crudely. You could tell it was a Honor because it was wearing something on its head that looked like a cross between the German army helmets of World War II and the Franco-Prussian War, which was intended to be a honning cap, Jackson supposed. You couldn't really fault it for skill. The guy had obviously done work of this kind before. You could maybe criticize the composition, but you had to do it on professional grounds. You had to give him that much. But, Jesus Christ, Comp had the right facts on file; they were there to be dug out. All you had to do was look for them. "What do you think of it?" Perry asked, through the rising sound of applause as the other people crowded around. Then he said: "Of course, you want to feel free to use any terms you want -- you don't need to confine yourself to the technical terms of the graphic arts." There was an understanding little smile playing around the corners of his mouth. "After all, many of my other friends here would have to use layman's language too." J ackson opened his mouth, then closed it. He could feel the tip of his tongue rubbing against the inner faces of the teeth on one side of his lower jaw. "Go ahead," Perry said. "Comp," Jackson said, "I need an easel, a backing board, a sheet of charcoal paper and some charcoal. Right away, now." Perry looked nonplussed. The crowd around them grew quiet. The exteroaffectors worked quickly. Another beam of light focused down, on the blank sheet at Jackson's easel. He held all but one of the sticks in his left hand, and bounced the other in his right for a minute as he stepped back and lookIF ed around at the people. He sucked at his front teeth once, sharply, and stepped into his work. He touched the tip of the stick to the paper, and he drew them a Amsir, fanatical and brave, with a dart rattling loose in the hole punched through one of his main bubbles, trying to get one hand up and bent around enough to hold its fingers over the hole, while it marched a Honor dressed in human skin and sucking on an air bottle toward the rim of the world. When it was done, it was done. He didn't know exactly how long he was at it. Nobody interrupted him. Lookings at it, he could see it was all right; he had it right. His left hand was black and empty. He dropped the last stick on the floor, at Perry's feet. "That's what I think of your painting," he said. "Technically." There was a gasp from several of the people behind him. Perry frowned and stepped around to look at the drawing. He stood scratching his chin, cocking his head back and forth. "I'm... afraid I don't understand. What are you trying to say with this?" There was a rising murmur of assent around the two of them. "Yes. What does that prove?" "Better let me have a look," Kringle said, pushing forward. He stood beside Perry; Jackson had to step back to give him room. "Well, are you trying to equate charcoal with oils?" Kringle said. "It's very difficult to judge between media, you know." "What I don't understand," Perry said, "is why he felt he had to be so hostile about it. I see what he's done here, and it's another scene entirely. How could one arrive at a basis for comparison?" Bonder said: "Well, I think it's a hell of a note, any way you look at it! I mean, here Perry dedicated it to him, at his party -- we're all taking part, here, for him. What does he want to ace like this for?" J ust to make sure, Jackson took one last look at the difference between Perry's daub and his drawing. Then he turned around and worked his way out of the crowd. Many of them were trying to push forward and look at the twin centers of attention anyhow. The others glanced at him uncomfortably. Some of them looked at him a little distastefully, and others looked as if they didn't know what to do, so he was able to get out from among them without coming into any kind of contact. He wiped the sweat off his face, and then, looking at his wet, half-clean palm, he realized he'd probably messed up his face pretty good. He walked out through the entrance and stood looking out at the pavilions, whose sides were responding gaily to the breeze. "Comp, I want a ship." "That's impossible. It would be disastrous. You know enough about experimental discipline to understand that. Look," Comp soothed, "you're in a mood of despair, at the moment, but after all, you don't have to relate to these particular people. I told you they're not the only class within the population. Relax. Knock around a little. Learn what suits you best. Meanwhile -- here -- " Exteroaffectors settled on him momentarily, and were gone. He was clean again, fresh-minted. His skin glowed. He rubbed his elbow. Maybe some day he'd be all hollow inside? "You mean, I can teach Throwing Stick? How about art? I mean, I could do something, and then you could have an election and see if it was any good or not. Maybe a simple majority vote would do, and then I could open up a school." "Well, no, I don't think you'd e comfortable, do you?" "That leaves becoming a Comp :chnician, doesn't it?" "The numlber of things to be amed there is finite, but very irge," Comp said. "I assure you, it's a lifetime's occupation, and a constantly expanding field of knowledge. Right at the moment, for example, the telemetry involved in sending exteroceptors across interstellar distances represents a fruitful -- " Jackson grinned, the way he had seen the Eld grin. "And when you die, I can be you." "Heavens, no I I will never die!" "That's what they all think." Jackson sighed: "What's Ahmuls doing?" He felt pretty lonely. "Ahmuls is quite contented. Here -- " Exteroaffectors kissed Jackson's eyelids. At first, he thought what he saw was a streamlet, running brown liquid, swirling amidst stones. Then he realized it was an aerial view of a vast plain. The point of view dropped like a skooping hawk, and he plunged down toward a herd of tossing, shaggy brown animals, massive of head, high of shoulder, redeyed, homed and hairy. Exteroaffeetors nuzzled behind his ears, and he heard the thunder of the buffalo. Behind them, bounding and lurching, came Ahmuls, silent and purposeful. He ran in a way that told Jackson he was straining everything he had, but my God how he ran, his flesh bagging out behind him, away from his face and shoulders. His mouth was wide open, and the tip of his tongue was in the comer of his lips. "This is the Mid-American Game Preserve," Comp said. "You'll notice the landscape has been trivially modified to suit his requirements." Indeed, there was plenty of lichen on the granite outcroppings that now split the herd into segments as it milled around them, and again funneled it into one cohesive mass before Ahmuls's pursuit startled it again. As he ran by one of them, Ahmuls threw out a hand, scooped off a clump and stuffed it into his mouth. It was impossible to tell whether he was trying to catch the animals so he could kill them, or whether he was merely attempting to join them. But in the almost as many behind him as there were ahead, and once or twice, panicked bulls, clattering and snorting out of tight places between the rocks, almost ran him down. "What'll you do if he gets pounded flat?" IF "Oh, there is no problem about that. He'd get medical attention immediately." "For the rest of his life." "That's my obligation. Accidental factors cannot be permitted to interrupt something's running its course." Ahmuls disappeared from this particular exteroaffector's sight as he ran behind an outcropping. "Do you want me to shift point of view, or do you want to look at Durstine now?" Jackson opened his eyes, as he heard her say from in front of him: "I wondered how long it would be before you came looking for me." It was hard shifting from the actuality to something he could see with his own eyes. It took a moment to organize his brain. He saw she was wearing some sort of crested helmet whose front part was a pale, sharp-edged mask over the upper part of her face, leaving only the chin and red lips bare. Then he saw she was, in fact, gowned, unlike the decorated people inside. She stepped back, her body clad in swirling off-white gauzeries which might even have been individual motes of pigment suspended in the air, or might have been some wonderful fabric. Either way, it was swirled around her body at the waist, caught again at the shoulders and the elbows. She laughed and sprang to tiptoe, her arms out straight from the shoulders, but bent forward at the elbows to point toward him. The movement of her body scattered out her garment in lacy strands, upraised the crest of her mask, and flung wide her white wings. She laughed in a silvery tinkle of joy. "See? I knew exactly what you wanted! I'm yours, yours!" she cried, lissomely throwing herself at him. He could just about get his hands up to catch her shoulders, and he felt himself wince when he touched them. "You've got that just exactly backwards," he said, marveling at their capacity. "I've got to admit, it's an accomplishment." "What? What?" She was jerking and tossing against his hands. "What's the matter with you?" "It's either you or me," he admitted, swinging her around to push her backward through the doorway, trying to see to it she got where she belonged. Now, what would Elmo Lincoln do in a case like this? "Go. Go, mangani!" he burst out, pushing explosively, flinging her backward in a swirl and smother of garb. He was shaking with rage; he could hear Comp giggling. He glared around him. There was nothing in sigjit but fake, and blue sky full of receptor glints. Never, never in his life had he been so angry, and Comp wouldn't stop giggling at him. He swatted at a darting bee. He wasn't as fast as Ahmuls. He crouched facing the doorway. Whoever came out of there first was in terminal danger. He could see red mist edging his field of vision, and at the same time there was this terrible, wonderful clarity about how he felt. It was an excuse for anything. A man brought to this feeling was as much a monarch as Tyrannosaurus Rex had ever been. He prowled, ihis thigjhs flexed, his arms like bridge cable. Pall came shyly and diffidently out of the Thorn tent. "Don't be mad, Jackson," she said. "I know you're upset." She stretched out her hand and touched his fist. "I know how it is. They used to treat me that way. But I just learned to ignore it. And I didn't give up; I kept trying to improve myself, and one day -- " Her eyes dropped. "Well, you saw how they finally admitted I was as good as them. Let me stay with you. I'll be good for you." Jackson looked up at the spiraling glints. "You see that?" he asked. "You hear?" "Certainly. Would you like to see an actuality of Petra Jovans?" Jackson shivered. "No. Don't ever show me Petra Jovans. If I ever want to see her I'll go look for myself." He added, looking at Pall, "And touch.". Pall was touching his hand to her mouth. "Please, Jackson," she said, "I really do understand you." Sweet Jesus, he thought, where and when are you ever -- "Oh, come on," he said, turning away from the tent, holding her wrist. She trotted gracefully beside him. "Where are we going?" "I don't know. Might find it, though." He got them out between the pavilions, and onto the fields. There was some kind of path through the hedgerows, and he followed that. Exteroceptors were keeping pace with them. "This is great stuff!" Comp was saying. "Setting out for the New Eden! Man and his mate, on the endless journey to -- " "Amsir urine," Jackson said. Pall stared at him. "What was that for?" What was it for? It always had to be for something, right? Jackson shook his head. She didn't see. She couldn't hear. But maybe he could make her. And maybe that was the one thing that would be worth his while to do in this place. He said: "You really want to know?" She nodded. "Very much." All right. Why not? If it didn't work it would pass the time, if it did he could -- he could -- He could do something that nobody had ever done before, was what he could; so he began: "The floor of the world is rippled like the bottom of the ocean, running out to the edges. Those edges are high, and they're cruel. At sunset, the eastern horizon is the far wall of the crater. It's black. Blueblack. The sunlight catches the top edge of the crater, and that's rust color. It makes a long, rust-colored arc that seems to dip down to left and right like a' wall, or a bow, or the trail of something that shot by without your noticing it, and all you can see is the trail it left. There are rocks standing on the crater floor, and the sunlight hitting them, just before it dies, turns them orange, too. The stars hang up there, hard and sharp. "That's where you head for when you're honning Amsirs." "In the beginning, I was running after this bird... " IF H U -- fS. Dear Editor; I have a suggestion. You have displayed extensive interest in developing new writing talent; I refer to such activities as editorials in your magazines, letters to the SFWA journal and of course, your monthly 'first" story in # (a most commendable institution since it was my birthplace). Why not allot a small box-'like space in one of your magazines for an 'idea mart?" The feature could be epigrammatic in character. The following examples are igiven for purposes of illustration only -- no claim is made for #. Consider a planet where there are extensive geological structures of crystallized virus. #. It is everyone's patriotic duty to delay the thermodynamic heat death of the universe. #. Title; Not Responsible for Lost Articles. #. A story whose elapsed "real time" is, say, # seconds. #-# seconds? Contributions could be either readers who would like to see a particular idea developed or writers who have an idea which they feel is just not their dish of tea. Now, of course no writer can live professionally by feeding exclusively on the ideas of others, but a beginning writer or someone lying becalmed on the sea of literary endeavor might pick up just enough momentum from a timely suggestion to start his own gears grinding. Naturally, the purpose of your editorial labors is to prepare a product that will appeal to readers -- not to conduct a writers' symposium. However, I feel that such an idea mart would in fact exert its primary appeal to readers. You might not increase paid circulation because of it, but you'd probably have the best-thumbed SF magazine on the newsstand ! -- W. I. McLaughlin, # Sixth Street, Albany, California. # How about that? If anybody has ideas for the "Idea Mart", send them along and we'll print the best of them. Everybody understand the rules? Once they're printed they belong to anybody who wants to use them. A good way to start might be with, "Say, why doesn't somebody write a science-fiction story that -- "... and then go on from there. Who knows? The Hugo-winner of # may come from your snggestion! -- Editor,    Dear Editor: Did you know that you are contributinig to the breakdown of my mental health? At one time I was of the opinion that a certain other SF Magazine was the most outstanding magazine to come down the pike in many moons. But the last year has been driving me around the bend. Such stories as The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, Dam Nuisance, Earthhlood, Arena, A Relic of Empire and Starpath have caused me to undertake a serious re-evaluation of the number one position. Now the other magazine is still very good, but the choice between the two of you is very difficult to say the least. This is my dilemma. My loyalty to the previous leader is conflicting with my anticipation whenever I see the new issue of If on the stands. Loyalty says nay, but anticipation says yea. So I guess ITl just have to learn to live with it. And, if you continue to maintain your high level of fiction, I know I shall. Thank you, gentlemen, for much pleasure I -- Joseph J. Miller, # East #th Street, Okmulgee, Oklahoma.    Dear Editor: Why are so many people turned off to science fiction?... Must be some way to turn them on. Any ideas?" I'm glad you asked. I started my love affair with science fiction back in the last half of the #'s. The Crescent Department Store in Spokane, Washington, was the only place in town that I knew of where I could be fairly sure of finding s-f magazines or, rarely, a book. The s-f stuff was right out on the stands in plain sight, but the saleswoman tended to look slightly embarrassed when they took my #c or #c (or # for a book), and they carefully wrapped up my purchase (though Saturday Review or Atlantic left the store nude) so that I could hide my shame. In short, a nice girl simply didn't parade her i)oor taste... or possibly her poor intelligence. S-f was something like the family idiot; you might sympathize and sell the family food and clothing for the poor thing, but they bought anonymously and kept the creature decently locked in the cupola room. But I persisted. My addiction finally became respectable, even admirable in some quarters. When my husband and I went to Richland (the residential town by Hanford atomic works) where we counted some half-dozen or more Ph.D.'s to the block, we toe': the last step: a taste for s-f was a "doesn't-everyone?" thing. I still buy magazines and books and haunt libraries, but frankly I see few stories that are up to those of the #'s and #'s. I've been reduced to re-reading from my own library. Take a look at the stories of those times. A simple secret: The authors had a story to tell, built up by extrapolation, around characters who seemed "real" and with whom the reader could identify. The authors might be "drawing a moral to adorn a tale": as in Space Merchants... whither are we wending in a society so ruled by Madison Avenue techniques and trends? Or in Caves of IF Steel... what will be the ultimate problems of our growing megaloplitan culture? Or in Search the Skies... will the time come, with increasing population, that gene drift in an increasingly in-bred world will make earth-population monstrous? But moral or not, the story was paramount. The authors were not mounting soap-boxes as professors suffering from suppuration of the typewriter. Too many of the books (not to speak of the short stories which tag along in the footprints of their betters) seem , to me to be busily selling the author's latest fixation. The Heinlein who could write (and did write) Day After Tomorrow (Sixth Column) or Puppet Masters or Door Into Summer is the same Heinlein who now turns out The Moon Is a Harsh MistresSy or that book whose name slips my mind about the family that is plunged into a parrallel world by an atomic bomb where a colored race breeds plump little white maidens for dinner. In both the last two named, Heinlein seems more busy being sociology professor than a story-teller. I enjoy studying. While I've taken no graduate courses in the past # years, we will have ten or twelve professional journals of one sort or another coming to our home, and I read those and a good deal of material that would qualify as "thinkpieces." But when I totter off to bed after a day of housework, being chauffeur to kid-and-husband contingent, and maybe even a bit of writing, I want io read a story until the rest of the family beds down. I don't want to be educated in someone's idea of the way new sociological standards or psychological patterns could create the best of all possible worlds. Especially I don't want to read a treatise masquerading as a story with characters who seem not at all like anyone I've ever known or could ever myself be. It's a pity, but when the author tries too hard to teach, he ceases to interest me. To be trite, if he wants to send a message, let him use Western Union. Nor do I want to read of weirdies of the Van Vogt school or purely imaginary-type fantasy planets around a purely-maybe sun. I may not be able to the characters I'm reading about... I howled like a lost pup all through the required math and statistics courses in graduate school, so how could I be a fabulous scientist? But not every little girl who thrilled over Cinderella was either pretty enough or charming enough to #e a Cinderella nor every little boy who read bigeyed of Robin Hood could beard and defeat the wicked Sheriff of Nottingham. Still, Cinderella was a girl, wasn't she? And Robin Hood was once a boy? And the Once and Future King Arthur was once a boy who was pretty small potatoes around the court. I do not, you see, rule out all magic (or for the S-F stories, all future science). But I want it to be believable, possible if not completely probable... and I is the test of the efficiency of the extrapolation of the author. I realize the problem of the writer is becoming harder and harder as the boundaries are pushed outward. He can't lay a story on Mars now with every possibility of a satellite "proving" that there isn't enough air or water to keep a lichen alive... and maybe proving it before the story can hit the newsstands. I wrote a story once wihidi I never tried to sell (because it wasn't up to Kombluth  Poihl or Heinlein or Asimov) and ran across the manuscript the other day. It really wasn't bad... not, at least, compared to most of the stories of the past few years. But it was laid on Venus (or most of it was) ; and Venus, according to our probes, has something like high enough heat to melt lead. It rather looks as if the and nucleophoresis to shunt his characters clear out of the solar system. OR he can extrapolate and lay his stories in the far future of the Earth like Space Merchants... and believe me, he could do worse. But if the author takes that line, what can he write about? Door Into Summer and Immortality, Inc. pictures the scientific future, Space Merchants shows the Madison Avenue future carried to a reasonable conclusion, one whose name slips my mind shows a future completely Hnsured". Well, that's the problem. Someone has written of a time when overcrowded mankind has taken to the ocean, and if someone hasn't yet done so, someone can write a story of the seabottom dwellers (I think I've read a story about that.) But the field is limited by the expansion of space information, and the space flight so soon to come. After all this long letter, I've only said what I feel is wrong. I have offered no solution. I haven't seen a new Asimov, Pohl or Brackett story for ages. Heinlein and Blish and Clarke have slid off the tracks of the type of book where the story comes first. Maybe the solution is to call all the old hands into a building, lock the door after supplying them with the good old stories they used to write, and then say, "Pals, read these. Then go and do it again. A manuscript with the story first is your key to freedom." And then hope for the best. But what'll happen? You know: they'll write some educational tome with so much science or so much sociology or so much psychology in it that you can't find the story with a microscope and a fine filter. And with nothing else available, by golly, somebody will publish the tome and the  of the population that would read patent medicine bottle labels if nothing else offers" will buy it, read it. And weep. and stop asking us why the readership is falling off or, at least, not growing as it should. Some firstclass Pohls could turn the tide! -- Alma McCormick, # Pat Mell Road SW (B-#), Marietta, Georgia #. # Thanks for a good letter, Mrs. McClintock -- and thank all of you, for that matter. Seems to us the mail has been unusually interesting lately, which is why we squeezed out a little extra space this time and will try to do so again. Let's see. This month's "First", as you will see, is W. I. Johnstone's Family Loyalty. Next month we start a new Keith Laumer serial. Spaceman! -- not a Retief story (but we have some of those on hand to print shortly thereafter). And our next few issues will include Philip Jose Farmer, Samuel R. Delany, Andre Norton, Lester del Rey, Fred Saberhagen's Berserkers... yes, some first-rate stuff, we think. Join us and see! -- Editor. IF Do you have a restless urge to write? If so, you have much in common with successful authors. Read how I # Famous Writers are helping people turn a restless urge for self-expression into success in writing There's something different ahoul people who feel the urge to write. They have a spiritual hunger that .sets them apart -- even from family tmd friends. If you have known this burning need to write, OLi, too, may have the gift successful authors possess... the recurring ache to put into words your innermost thoughts, your own experiences. Max Shulman started writing because... it was write or bust." I aith Baldwin, after # novels, still says: "Vc never written exactly what I dreamed I'd write... you keep on trying." Successful authors like these know that this restless urge for self-expression is perhaps the most important ingredient of writing success. But, they realize it can waste away if you don't know how to get started w riting, or if you hesitate to try. Several years ago they joined forces with Rod wSerling, Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Kberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff, Mark Wiseman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith and Bergen F.vans, to form the Famous Writers School. They poured everything they knew about writing into a remarkable new kind of professional training course which trains you at home in your spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing -- then specialize in Fiction, Non-Fiction, Advertising Writing or Business Writing. Fach of your assignments is examined by an instructor who is a professional writer or editor. He goes over your work line by line, word by word, blue-penciling his changes right on your manuscript, much as an editor does with an established author. Then he returns it with a long letter of advice and guidance. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to the Reader's Digest, R "'d '?"ling S urge to write made him a If i'. ig r v' diamatisl (Twilight Zone, Palterns,  e for a Heavyweight) and won him six Fmmy awards. Ladies' Honie Journal, Fantasy and Science Fiction, and more than # other publications. Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you, too, have writing ability worth developing, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing aptitude -- you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. I I Famous Writers School I Dept. #, Westport Connecticut # I I want to know if I have writing aptitude I worth developing. Please mail me, I w ithout obligation, your Aptitude Test I and #-page brochure. Mr. Mrs  Age Miss Circle one and please print Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. Official Rand McNally Map taken from actual photos of the moon. This circular Map Puzzle shows mountains, craters, seas, basins and valleys, with frame containing information about eclipses, tides, and seasons. Map when completed #" x # ". Made of heavy cardboard and diecut. k WORLDS OF A gripping new science-fiction novel by Keith Laumer by Terry Carr and many more in this big issue! Do you have a restless urge to write? If so, you have much in common with successful authors. Read how I # Famous Writers are helping people turn a restless urge for self-expression into success in writing There's something different about people who feel the urge to write. They have a spiritual hunger that sets them apart -- even from family and friends. If you have known this burning need to write, you, too, may have the gift successful authors possess... the recurring ache to put into words your innermost thoughts, your own experiences. Max Shulman started writing because... it was write or bust." Faith Baldwin, after # novels, still says: "I've never written exactly what I dreamed I'd write... you keep on trying." Successful authors like these know that this restless urge for self-expression is perhaps the most important ingredient of writing success. But, they realize it can waste away if you don't know how to get started writing, or if you hesitate to try. Several years ago they joined forces with Rod Serling, Bennett Cerf, Bruce Catton, Mignon G. Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff, Mark Wiseman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith and Bergen Evans, to form the Famous Writers School. They poured everything they knew about writing into a remarkable new kind of professional training course which trains you at home in your spare time. You begin with the fundamentals of all good writing -- then specialize in Fiction, Non-Fiction, Advertising Writing or Business Writing. Each of your assignments is examined by an instructor who is a professional writer or editor. He goes over your work line by line, word by word, blue-penciling his changes right on your manuscript, much as an editor does with an established author. Then he returns it with a long letter of advice and guidance. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to the Reader's Digest, Rod Serling s urge to write made him a leading TV dramatist Twilight Zone, Patterns, Requiem for a Heavyweight) and won him six Emmy awards. Ladies' Home Journal, Fantasy and Science Fiction, and more than # other publications. Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you, too, have writing ability worth developing, send for the School's revealing Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing aptitude -- you may enroll. However, there is no obligation to do so. Famous Writers School Dept. #, Westport Connecticut # I want to know if I have writing aptitude worth developing. Please mail me, without obligation, your Aptitude Test and #-page brochure. Mr. Mrs Age Miss Circle one and please print Street City State Zip Accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council. Vol. #, No. # Frederik Pohl, Editor David Perton , Production Manager Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin , Associate Editor Mavis Fisher , Circulation Director by Terry Carr by Charles W. Runyon by H. H. Hollis by Keith Laumer by A. Bertram Chandler by B. K. Filer by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF puolished monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert' M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York. N.Y. # IF  Editorial A part from our strange primate habit of polluting our environment by dirtying up our air and filthying up our water, we also have made great strides in polluting the environment of our senses. Consider the difference between a modem American (habitat and that of a medieval peasant. The peasant (who was, remember, the great bulk of humanity until just a few decades ago) lived in a world where the visual inputs were relatively familiar and relatively low-key... in spring and summer, all greens and browns; in fall, a few reds and russets; in winter, a blanket of white. Of the self-luminous visual objects in his universe, the only important one was the sun -- occasionally the quiet moon and stars, rarely a flickering rush to give him light enough to go to bed by or the fire that cooked his dinner. His auditory inputs were even milder -- a few times a year he might hear a thunderclap, but the rest of his life the sounds on his horizon were his own voice, the lowing of his cattle, the chopping of wood, the bells of the village church. But look at us today! Sights and sounds clamor for our attention from every quarter. We walk along a street in a city and cannot converse with the man walking next to us under a shout, because of traffic, construction, the rumble of a subway train under the street, the flutter of a helicopter overhead. The part of the country that most of us see is no better than the city -- because in fact it is a part of the city, the linking pseudopods that one city extends to another in the form of throughways and turnpikes, with the vehicles moving three times as fast and generating nine times as much noise. Even away from the highways we have the jets and the pistonplanes to assault our senses; and in our homes, offices and stores we have the sound of business machines, the chatter of talk, the ringing of bells, plus the filtering in of traffic, aircraft and construction noises through tissue-thin walls... and to make sure the sound threshold is high enough, we add Muzak, radio, TV and recorded sounds. At # decibels physical damage results. Ordinary city traffic regularly hits # decibels or higher; when a jet passes overhead or a particularly loud truck goes by, the #-decibel level comes perilously close. But apart from the sheer volume and variety of sound and sight, there is a very high proportion of it deliberately structured for attention-getting qualities -- the savage noises of an aspirin commercial on television, the blare of a soundtruck at election time, dizzying neon, even the colors of the fabrics we wear and the goods we buy. Highintensity, saturated colors are almost as much a modern invention as the machine-gun pop of the helicopFor sixteen years ular feature. Now in hardbound book form. The first of a seriesupdated and divided by subjects into separate books. Facts and figures as can write them. Send today. Satisfaction guaranteed. Dept. #-GA-#, Garden City, N.Y. #I book(s) within two weeks without cost or obligation if not completely satis fied. Otherwise, I'll be billed just # per copy, plus shipping costs as pay ment in full. privilege guaranteed, of course. ter overhead; among the other tranquil advantages of our peasant, his dyes and paints were almost as milted as his environment, with butternut browns and saffron yellows and an occasional rare glimpse of a crushed mineral in oil paint. It's a fact that too many sensory inputs can cause damage to the mind. Apparently early exposure helps -- while the brain is developing, the experience of handling multiple inputs prepares it for the task. But if the inputs increase too much after the brain is well formed they can lead to catastrophe. Example: Those who are blind from birth, and then have their sight restored in maturity almost invariably suffer from such acute depression that suicide is common. So maybe our children will be better able to cope with today's environment than we. As a matter of fact, the parent of any teen-ager can testify that the younger generation is thriving on a diet of prophylactic sound right now: witness the time when you hear a blast of noise from tbe teenager's room, and you race up there, and there he is, the TV going, the transistor shouting. "W-A-B-Cwangggg!" the record-player blaring, "FTin-chester Ca-tie-dral!"... and you ask him what the devil he's doing and he says, "Holy catfish, I'm doing my homework." But the trouble with that is that they will not be living in today's environment. They'll be living in tomorrow's. And if present trends are any indication, they will have noisier, more raucous, more strident inputs still. Look at the goodies in store for us ! Think only of the supersonic transport -- spreading a path of sonic boom fifty miles wide, clear across the country, with every flight. Not to mention rockets. Not to mention what the advertising men of tomorrow may come up with... focused to bring commercials to us in our bedrooms, or -- say, how about using smell ? W hat led us to these trains of thought is that, as this editorial is being written, we are in the second day of a fair-sized blizzard. Astonishing world! It's all white, even the air; all the manmade sounds are muted. In fact, the only sounds we consciously hear are as "white" as the snow -- the hiss of steam in the heating system, the blowing of the wind. So, in line with our policy of letting our readers in on the ground floor of economic opportunity, let us now propose a new product to manufacture. It should muffle sound and sight equally; it should come in fluffy white flakes and stay suspended in the air, blotting out harsh colors and lights, sopping up the most raucous noises. We think it could be made out of some sort of light foam plastic, blown into the air out of slow-moving trucks. We haven't decided on a name for it -- StyroSno? Snocron? Whatever it is, it should have the sexy modem sound of Coke or Citgo or Enovid. Because naturally we will want to advertise it. In fact, there's a real challenge for Mad Ave: to create the sort of advertising, gimmicks that will break right through the Snocron barrier, overwhelming its sound-deadening qualities with staccato shrieks and snaredrum tattoos, penetrating its curtain with -- well, let's see. Laser beams? Nuclear explosions? Never mind, we'll work that problem out somehow... IF IF  Serial He was shanghaied onto a weird trip across the starways -- and there would never be a return! I cold under my collar. There were some mouldy leaves drifted there. I I remember hearing somewhere that used the last of my lighter fluid tryfreezing to death is an easy way ing to get a little blaze going, but to go; but the guy that said that that turned out like everything else never tried it. I'd found myself a I'd tried lately. A fizzle. One thing little hollow where a falling-down about it: my feet were so numb from stone wall met a dirtbank and hunthe cold. I couldn't feel the blisters kered down in it; but the wall wasn't from the eighteen miles I'd hiked high enough to keep the wind off since my last ride dumped me at a or stop the sleet from hitting my crossroads, just before dawn, neck like buckshot and running down I had my collar turned up, for what good that might do, which wasn't much; the coat felt like wet newspaper. Both elbows were out of it, and two of the buttons were gone. Funny. Three weeks ago it had been decent-looking enough to walk into a second-class restaurant without attracting more than the usual quota of hostile stares. Three weeks. That's all it took to slide from a shaky toehold in the economic cycle all the way to the bottom. I'd heard of hitting the skids, but I never knew before just what it meant. Once you go over that invisible edge, it's downhill all the way. It had been almost a year since I'd quit school, when Uncle Jason died. What money I had went for the cheapest funeral the little man with the sweet, sad smile could bear to talk about. After that, I'd held a couple of jobs that had wafted away like the morning mist as soon as the three-months "tryout" was over and the question of regular wages came up. There'd been a few months of scrounging, then; mowing lawns, running errands, one-day stands as a carpenter's helper or assistant busboy while the regular man was off. I'd tried to keep up appearances, enough not to scare off any prospective employers, but the money barely stretched to cover food and what the sign said was a clean bed. Then one day I'd showed up looking just a little too thin, a little too hungry, the collar just a little too frayed. And now I was here, with my stomach making whimpering sounds to remind me of all the meals  it hadn't 'had laitely, as far as ever from where I was headed -- wherever that was. I didn't really have a destination. I just wanted to be where I wasn't. And I couldn't stay here. The wall was worse than no protection at all, and the wind was blowing colder and wetter all the time. I crawled out and made it back up the slope to the road. There were no headlights in sight; it wouldn't have helped if there were. Nobody was going to stop in a sleetstorm in the middle of nowhere to give a lift to a hobo like me. I didn't have any little sign to hold up, stating that I was a hardship case, that comfortable middle-class conformity was my true vocation, that I was an honest young fellow with a year of college who'd had a little hard luck lately. All I had was the clothes I stood in, a bad cough and a deep conviction that if I didn't get out of the weather, fast, by morning I'd be one of those dead-of-exposure cases they're always finding in alleys back of cut-rate liquor stores. I put my back to the wind and started off, hobbling on a couple of legs that ended somewhere below the knee. I didn't notice feeling tired any more, or hungry. I was just a machine somebody had left running. All I could do was keep putting one foot in front of the other until I ran down. I saw the light when I came up over a rise, just a weak little spark, glowing a long way off in the bfg dark beyond the trees. I turned and started off across the open field toward it. IF Ten minutes later, I came up behind a big swaybacked barn with a new-looking silo beside it and a rambling two-story house beyond. The light was shining from a ground floor window. There was a pickup parked in the side yard near the bam, and a late-model Cadillac convertible, with the top down. Just looking at it made me ten degrees colder. I didn't have any idea of knocking on the door, introducing myself : "Billy Danger, sir. May I step inside and curl up in front of the fire?" -- and being invited to belly up to a chicken dinner. But there was the barn. And where there were bams, there was hay; and where there was hay, a man could snuggle down and sleep, if not warm, at least not out in the freezing rain. It was worth a try. The barn door looked easy enough: just warped boards hanging on big rusted-out hinges; but when I tried it, nothing budged. I looked closer and saw that the hinges weren't rotted after all; they were just made to look that way. I picked at a flake of paint on the door. There was bright metal underneath. That was kind of strange, but all it meant to me then was that I wouldn't be crawling into that haystack after all. The sleet was coming down thicker than ever now. I put my nose up and sniffed, caught a whiff of frying bacon and coffee that made my jaws ache. All of a sudden, my stomach remembered its complaint and tried to tie itself into a hard knot. I went back through tall weeds past some rusty iron that used to be farm machinery, and across a rutted drive toward the silo. I didn't know much about silos except that they were where you stored the corn, but at least it had walls and a roof. If I could get in there, I might find a dry spot to hide in. I reached a door set in the curved wall; it opened, and I slid inside, into dim light and a flow of warm air. Across the room, there was an inner door, standing open. I could see steps going up: glass steps on chrome-plated rails. The soft light and warm air were coming from there. I went up moving on instinct, like the first fish crawling out on land. I reached the top and was in a room full ofpipes and tubes and machinery and a smell like the inside of a TV set. Weary as I was, this didn't look like a place to curl up in. I made it up another turn of the spiral stair, came out in a space where big shapes like cotton bales were stacked, with dark spaces between them. There was a smell like a fresh-tarred road here. I groped toward the deepest shadow I could find, and my hand touched something soft. In the faint light from the stairwell it looked like mink or sable, except that it was an electric blue color. I didn't let that worry me. I crawled up on top of the stack and put my face down in the velvety fluff and let all the strings break at once. II I n the dream, I was a burglar, holed up in somebody else's house, hiding in the closet, and in a minute they'd find me and haul me out and ride me into town in a police car to sit under the lights and answer questions about every unsolved chickenstealing in the county in the past five years. The feet were coming up the stairs, coming closer. Somebody said something, and a woman's voice answered in a foreign language. They went away, and the dream faded... And then the noise started. It was a thin, high-pitched shrilling, like one of those whistles you call the dog with. It went right between my bones and pried at the joints. It got louder, and angrier, like bees boiling out of a hive, and I was awake now, and trying to get up; but a big hand came down and mashed me flat. I tried to get enough breath in to yell, but the air had turned to syrup. I just had time to remember the day back in Pineville when the Chewy rolled off the rack at Uncle Jason's gas station and pinned a man under the back bumper. Then it all went red, and I was someplace else, going over Niagara Falls in a big rubber balloon, wearing a cement life jacket. W hen I woke up, I heard voices... talking rot now. It's nothing to do with me." This was a man's voice, speaking with an English accent. He sounded as if he was a 'little amused by something. "I mark well t'was thee I charged with the integrity o' the vessel!" This one sounded big and mad. He had a strange way of talking, but I could understand most of the words all right. Then a girl spoke, but in another language. She had a nice, clear, sweet voice. She sounded worried. "No harm done, Desroy." The first man gave a soft laugh. "And it might be a spot of good luck, at that. Perhaps he'll make a replacement for Jongo." ' "I don't omit thy ill-placed japery, Orfeo. Rid me this urchin, ere you vex me out of all humor!" "A bit of a sticky wicket, that, old boy. He's still alive, you know. If I nurse him along -- " "How say you? What stuff is this! Art thou the parish comfort, to wax chirurgeonly o'er this whelp?" "If he can be trained -- " "You o'ertax my patience, Orfeo! I'd make a chough of as deep chat!" "He'll make a gun boy, mark my words." "Bah! you more invest the misadventure than a market-place trinket chafferer! In any case, the imp's beyond recovery!" Part of me wanted to just skip over this part of the dream and sink back down into the big, soft black that was waiting for me, but a little voice somewhere back behind my eyes was telling me to do something fast, before bad things happened. I made a big effort and got one eyelid open. Everything looked red and hazy. The three of them were standing ten feet away, near the door. The one with the funny way of speaking was big, built solid as a line-backer, with slicked-back black hair and a little mustadhe. He wore a loose jacket covered with pockets; he looked like Clark Gable playing Frank Buck. IF The other man was not much older than me; he had a rugged jawline, a short nose, curly reddish-brown hair, wide shoulders, slim hips in a form-fitting gray coverall. He was pretty enough to be a TV interne. The girl... I had to stop and get the other eyelid up. No girl could be that pretty. She had jet black hair and smoky gray eyes big enough to go wading in; an oval face, mellow ivory-colored skin, features like one of those old statues. She was wearing a white coverall, and the form it fit was enough to break your heart. I made a move to sit up, and pain broke over me like a wave. It seemed to be coming mostly from my left arm. I took hold of the wrist with my other hand and got up on one elbow with no more effort than it takes to swing a safe in your teeth. Nobody seemed to notice. When the whirly lights settled down, they were still standing there, still arguing. "... a spot of bother, Desroy, but it's worth a go." "Methinks sloth instructs thee, naught else!" The big fellow turned and stamped off. The young fellow grinned at the girl. "Just twisting the old boy's tail. Actually, he's right. You nip off and soothe him down a bit. I'll attend to this." I slid over the edge of my nest and kind of fell to the floor. At the noise, they both whirled on me. I got hold of the floor and swung it around under me. "I just came in to get out of the weather," I meant to say, but it came out as a sort of gargly sound. The man took a quick step toward me and over his shoulder said, "Pop off now, Milady." He had a hand on a thing clipped to his belt. I didn't need a set of technical specifications to tell me it was some kind of gun. The girl moved up quickly and put her hand on his arm. "Orfeo -- the poor creature suffers!" She spoke English with an accent that made it sound like music. He moved her around behind him. "He might be dangerous, Now do be a good child and toddle off." "I'm... not dangerous," I managed to get the words out. The smile was less successful. I felt sick. But I wasn't going to come unfed jn front of her . I got my back against the pile of furs and tried to stand up straight. "So you can talk," the man said. He was frowning at me. "Damn me if I know what to do with you." He seemed to be talking to himself. "Just... let me rest a few minutes... and I'll be on my way..." I could hear my pulse thudding in my ears like bongo drums. "Why did you come aboard?" the man snapped the question at me. "What did you think you'd find here?" "I was cold," I said. "It was warm here." He snorted. "Letting yourself in for a devilish change of scene, weren't you?" His first words were beginning to filter through. "What is this place?" I asked him. "You're aboard Lord Desroy 's yacht. And he's not keen on contraband holed up in the aft lazaret." i C A boat?" I felt I'd missed something somewhere. The last I remembered was a farmhouse, in the middle of nowhere. "You must be fooling me." I tried to show him a smile to let him know I got the joke. "I don't feel any waves." "She's a converted ketch, stressedfield primaries, ion-pulse auxiliaries, fitted with full antiac and variable G gear, four years out of Zeridajh on a private expedition. Every square inch of her is allocated to items in specific support of her mission in life, which brings us back to you. What's your name?" he asked. v "Billy Danger. I don't understand all that about a catch." "Just think of her as a small spaceship." He sounded impatient. "Now, Billy Danger, it's up to me to -- " "Spaceship? You mean like they shoot astronauts off in?" Orfeo laughed. "Astronauts, eh? Couple of natives paddling about the shallows in a dug-out canoe. No, Billy Danger, this is a deep space yacht, capable of cruising for many centuries at multiple-light velocities. At the moment, she's on course for a world very distant from your native Earth." "Wait a minute," I said. I wanted everything to slow down for just a second while I got caught up with it. "I don't want to go to any star. I just want out of here." I tried a step and had to lean against the bale beside me. "Just let me off, and I'll disappear so quick you'll think you dreamed me." "I'm afraid that's not practical," Orfeo cut me off short. "Now you're here, the question is what to do with you. As you doubtless heard, Lord Desroy's in favor of putting you out the lock. As for myself, I have hopes of making use of you. Know anything about weapons? Hunted much?" "Just let me off," I said. "Anywhere at all. I'll walk home." "You must answer my questions promptly, Billy Danger! WTiat becomes of you depends on how well you answer them." uj never hunted," I said. My breath was short, as if I'd run a long way. "That's all right. Nothing to unlearn. How old are you?" "Nineteen, next April." "Amazing. You look younger. Are you quick to learn, Billy Danger?" "It's kidnapping," I said. "You can't just kidnap a man. There's laws..." "Mind your tongue, Billy Danger! I'll tolerate no insolence, you'd best understand that at the outset! As for law, Lord Desroy makes the law here. This is his vessel. With the exception of the Lady Raire and myself, he owns every atom aboard her, including stowaways." A sudden thought occurred to me, like an ice pick through the heart. "You're not... Earthmen, are you?" "Happily, no." "But you look human; you speak English." "Of course we're human. Much older stock than your own unfortuIF nate branch. We've spent a year on your drab little world, going after walrus, elephant, that sort of thing. Now, that's enough chatter, Billy Danger. Do you think you can learn to be a proper gunbearer?" "How long -- before we go back?" "To Earth? Never, I trust. Now, see here! Don't fret about matters out of your control! Your job is to keep me happy with you. If you can do that, you'll stay alive and well. If not..." He let the rest hang. "But then, I'm sure you'll try your best, eh, Billy Danger?" It was crazy, but the way he said it, I believed every word of it. The thing I had to do right now was stay alive. Then, later, I could worry about getting home. "Sure," I said. "I'll try." "Right. That's settled, then." Orfeo looked relieved, as if he'd just found an excuse to put off a mean chore. "You were lucky, you know. You took eight gravities unprotected. A wonder you didn't break a few bones." I was still holding my left arm by the wrist. I eased it around front, and felt the sharp point poking out through my sleeve. "Who said I didn't?" I asked him and felt myself folding like a windblown newspaper. in I woke up feeling different. At first I couldn't quite dope out what it was. Then I got it: I was clean, fresh-shaved, sweet-smelling, tucked in between sheets as crisp as new dollar bills. And I felt good. I tingled all over, as if I'd just had a needle shower and a rubdown. The room I was in was a little low-ceilinged cubby hole with nothing much in it but the pallet I was lying on. I remembered the arm then and pulled back a loose yellow sleeve somebody had put on me. Outside of a little swelling and a bright pink scar under a clear plastic patch, it was as good as new. Something clicked, and a little door in the wall slid back. The man named Orfeo stuck his head in. " "Good, you're awake. About time. I'm about to field-strip the Z-guns. You'll watch." I got up and discovered that my knees didn't wobble any more. I felt strong enough to run up a wall. And hungry. Just thinking about ham and eggs made my jaws ache. Orfeo tossed me a set of yellow coveralls from a closet back of a sliding panel. "Try these. I cut them down from Jongo's old cape." I pulled them on. The cloth was tough and light and smooth as glove silk. "How are you feeling?" Orfeo was looking me up and down. "Fine," I said. "How long did I sleep?" "Ninety-six hours. I doped you a bit." I ran a finger over my new scar. "I don't understand about the arm. I remember it as being broken. Broken bad." "A Hunter has to know a little field medicine," he said. "While I was about it, I gave you a good worming and balanced up your body IF chemistry." He shook his head. "Bloody wonder you could walk, the rot that boiled out of you. Bloody microbe culture. How's your vision?" I blinked at the wall. If there'd been a fly there, I could have counted his whiskers. "Good," I said. "Better than it's ever been." "Well, you're no good to me sick," he said, as if he had to apologize. "Thanks," I said. "For the arm, and the bath and the pretty yellow pajamas, too." "Don't thank me. The Lady Raire took care of that part." "You mean... the girl...?" "She's the Lady Raire, Jongo! And I'm Sir Orfeo. As for the washup and the kit, someone had to do it. You stank to high heaven. Now come along. We've a great deal to cover if you're to be of any use to me on the hunt." T he armory was a small room lined with racks full of guns that weren't like any guns I'd ever seen before. There were handguns, rifles, rocket-throwers, some with short barrels, some with just a bundle of glass rods, some with fancy telescopic sights, one that looked like a flare pistol with a red glass thermometer on the side, and there were a few big elephant guns of Earth manufacture. The whole room glittered like Tiffany's front window. I ran a finger along a stock made of polished purple wood, with fittings like solid gold. "It looks like Mr. Desroy goes first class." "Keep your hands off the weapons until you know how to service them." Sir Orfeo poked buttons. A table tilted up out of the floor, and a section of ceiling over it glared up brighter than before. He flipped a switch, and the lock-bar on a rack snapped up, and he lifted out a heavy-looking, black-stocked item with a drum magazine and three triggers and a flared shoulder plate, chrome plated. "This is a Z-gun," he said. "It's a handy all-around piece, packs .# megatonseconds of firepower, weight four pounds three ounces." He snapped a switch on the side back and forth a couple of times and handed the gun across to me. "What's a megatonsecond?" I asked him. "Enough power to vaporize the yacht if it were released at one burst. At full gain the Z-gun will punch a #mm hole through an inch of flint steel at a range of five miles with a to tell me a lot more about Z-guns, crater-rifles, infinite repeaters, filament pistols. At the end of it I didn't know much more about the weapons Lord Desroy would be using on his hunt, but I was feeling sorry for whatever it was he was after. S ir Orfeo took me back to the little room I'd waked up in, showed me how to work a gadget that delivered a little can of pink oatmeal, steaming hot. I sniffed it; it smelled like seaweed. I tasted it. It was flat and insipid, like paper mache. "Sir Orfeo, I hate to complain about a free gift," I said. "But are you sure this was meant for a man to eat?" "Jongo wasn't really a man." I kind of goggled at him. "What was he?" "A Lithian. Very good boy, Jongo. With me for a long time." He glanced around the room. "Damned if it doesn't give me a touch of something-or-other to see you in his kennel." "Kennel?" "Nest, pitch, call it cabin if you like." Sir Orfeo beetled a fine eyebrow at me. "Don't be putting on airs, Billy Danger. I've no patience with it." He left me there to dine in solitude. Afterwards, he gave me a tour of the ship. He was showing me a fancy leather and inlay lounge when Lord Desroy came in. "Ah, there you are, Desroy," Orfeo said in a breezy way. "Just occurred to me you might like to have Jongo -- ah, Billy Danger, that is -- do a bit of a dust-up here in the lounge." "How now? Hast lost thy wits, Orfeo? Hie the moon-calf hence i' the instant!" "Steady on, Desroy. Just thought I'd ask -- " "I've a whim to chide the varlet for his impertinence!" the big boss barked and took a step toward me. Orfeo pushed me behind him. "Don't blame the boy. My doing, you know," he said in a nice cool tone. "Thy role of advocate for this scurvy patch would want credit, an I stood not witness on't!" We went on down the stairs. Instead of looking mad, Sir Orfeo was smiling and humming between his teeth. He dropped the smile when he saw me looking at him. "I advise you to stay out of Lord Desroy's way, Jongo. For now, he's carefully nutured reputation for temperament, you see. If I get upset the game might turn out to be scarce. But if you ruffle his feathers by being underfoot, he might act hastily." "He has a strange way of talking," I said. "What kind of accent is that?" "Eh? Oh, it's a somewhat archaic dialect of English. Been some three hundred years since his lordship last visited Earth. Now, that's enough gossip, Jongo -- " "It's Billy Dan -- " "I'll call you Jongo. Shorter. Now let's get along to Hold F, and you can earn your keep by polishing a spot of brightwork in Environmental." The polishing turned out to be a job of scraping slimy deposits off the valves and piping. Sir Orfeo left me to it while he went back up and joined in whatever they were doing on the other side of the forbidden door. IV O ne day Sir Orfeo showed me a star chart and pointed out the relative locations of Earth, Gar #, the world we were headed for at the moment, and Zeridajh, far in toward the big gob of stars at the center of the galaxy. "We'll never get there," I said. "I read somewhere it takes a hundred thousand years to cross the galaxy; Gar # must be about ten light-years IF away; and Zeridojh is thousands!" He laughed. "The limiting velocity of light is a myth, Jongo," he said. "Like the edge of (the world your early sailors were afraid they'd fall over -- or the sound barrier you used to worry about. This vessel could reach Zeridajh in eighteen months, if she stretched her legs." I wanted to ask him why Lord Desroy picked such a distant part of the sky to go hunting in, but I'd learned not to be nosy. Whatever the reasons were, they were somebody's secret. After my first few weeks away from all time indicators, I began to develop my own internal time-sense, independent of the three-hour cycles that were the Galactic shipboard standard. I could sense when an hour had passed, and looking back, I knew, without knowing how I knew, just about how long I'd been away from Earth. I might have been wrong -- there was no way to check -- but the sense was very definite, and always consistent. I had been aboard just under six weeks when Sir Orfeo took me to the personal equipment room one day and fitted me out with thermal boots, leggings, gloves, a fancy pair of binocular sunglasses, breathing apparatus, a back-pack and a temperature suit. He spent an hour fussing over me, getting everything fitted just right. Then he told me to go and tie down in my digs. I did, and for the next hour the yacht shook and shrilled and thumped. When the noise stopped, Sir Orfeo came along and yelled to me to get into my kit and come down to F Hold. When I got there, walking pretty heavy with all the gear I was carrying or had strapped to my back, (he was there checking items off a list. "A little more juldee next time, Jongo," he snapped at me. "Come along now; I'll want your help in getting the ground-car out shipshape." It was a powerful-looking vehicle, wide, squatty, with tracks like a small tank, a plastic bubble dome over the top. There was a roomy compartment up front full of leather and inlaid wood and brightwork, and a smaller space behind, with two hard seats. Lord Desroy showed up in his Frank Buck bush jacket and jodhpurs and a wide-brimmed hat; the Lady Raire wore her white coverall. Sir Orfeo was dressed in his usual tailored gray with a filament pistol strapped, to his hip and a canteen and bush knife on the other side. We all wore temperature suits, which were like long-handled underwear, under the coveralls. "Keep your helmet closed, Jongo," Sir Orfeo told me. "Toxic atmosphere, you know." He pushed a button and a door opened up in the side of the hold, and I was looking out at a plain bluish grass. A wave of heat rolled in, and the thermostat in my suit clicked and right away it turned cool against my skin. Sir Orfeo started up, and the car lifted a couple of inches from the floor, swung around and slid out under the open sky of a new world. F or the next five hours I perched on my seat with my mouth open, taking in the sights: the high, blue-black sky, strange trees like overgrown parsley sprigs, the leathery grass that stretched to a horizon that was too far away -- and the animals. The things we were after were big crab-armored monstrosities, pale purple and white, with mouths full of needle-pointed teeth and horns all over their faces. Lord Desroy shot two of them, stopping the oar and going forward on foot. I guess it took courage, but I didn't see the point in it. Each time, he and Sir Orfee made a big thing of hacking off one of the horns and taking a lot of pictures and congratulating each other. The Lady Raire just watched from the car. She didn't seem to smile much. We loaded up and went on to another world then, and Milford shot a thing as big as a diesel locomotive. Sir Orfeo never talked about himself or the other members of the party, or the world they came from, but he explained the details of the hunt to me, gave me pointers on tracking and approaching, told me which gun to use for different kinds of quarry. Not much of it stuck. After the fourth or fifth hunt, it all got a little stale. "This next world is called Gar #," Sir Orfeo, woke me up to tell me after a long stretch in space. "Doesn't look like much; dry, you know; but there'll be keen hunting. I found this one myself, running through tapes made by a survey team a few hundred years ago. The fellows we'll be going after they called dire-beast. You'll understand why when you see the beggars." He was right about Gar #. We started out across a rugged desert of dry-baked pink and tan and yellow clay, fissured and cracked by the sun, with points of purplish rock pushing up here and there, a line of jagged peaks for a horizon. It didn't look like game country to me, but then I wasn't the Hunter. The sun was high in the sky, too bright to look at, a little smaller than the one I was used to. It was cool and comfortable inside the car; it hummed along a couple of feet above the ground, laying a dust trail behind it from the air blast it was riding on. The tracks were for hills that were too steep for the air cushion to climb. About a mile from the yacht, I looked back; it was just a tiny glint, like a lost needle, among all that desolation. Up front, on the other side of the glass panel, Lord Desroy and Sir Orfeo and the Lady Raire chatted away in their odd language, and every now and then said something in that strange brand of English they spoke. I could hear them through a speaker hookup in the back of the car. If I'd had something to say, I don't know whether they could have heard it or not. A fter two hours run, we pulled up at the top of a high escarpment. Sir Orfeo opened the hatch, and we all got out. I remembered Sir Orfeo had told me always to stay close with his gun when we were out of the car so I got out one of the crater rifles and came up behind them in time to see Sir Orfeo point. IF "There -- by the double peak at the far end of the fault-line!" He snapped his goggles up and whirled to start back and almost slammed into me. A very thin slice of an instant later I was lying on my back with my head swimming, looking into the operating end of his filament pistol. "Never come up behind me with a weapon in your hand!" I got up, with my head still whanging from the blow he'd hit me, and followed them to the car, and we went tearing back down the slope the way we'd come. It was a fast fifteen-minute run out across the flats toward where Sir Orfeo had seen whatever it was he saw. I had my binocular goggles on and was looking hard, but all I saw was the dusty plain and the sharp rock spires, growing taller as we rushed toward them. Then Sir Orfeo swung the car to the left in a wide curve and pulled to a stop behind a low ridge. "Everybody out!" he snapped and popped the hatch up and was over the side. "Don't sit there and brood, Jongo!" He was grinning, excited and happy now. "My crater rifle; Z-guns for his lordship and Lady Raire!" I handed the weapons down to him, stock-first, the way he'd told me. "You'll carry the extra crater and a filament pistol," he said and moved back up front to go into conference with the others. I strapped on the gun and grabbed the rifle and hopped down just as Sir Orfeo and Lord Desroy started off. The Lady Raire followed about ten feet back, and I took up my post offside to the right about five yards. My job was to keep that relative position to Sir Orfeo, no matter what, until he yelled, "close!" Then I was to move in quick. That was about all I knew about a hunt. That, and don't come up behind Sir Orfeo with a gun. The sun still seemed to be about where it had been when we started out. There was a little wind blowing from behind, keeping a light cloud of dust rolling along ahead. It seemed to me I'd heard somewhere that you were supposed to sneak up on game from upwind, but that wasn't for me to worry about. All I had to do was maintain my interval. We came into a slight rise of ground. The wind was picking up, driving a thick curtain of dust ahead. For a few seconds I couldn't see anything but that yellow fog swirling all around. I stopped and heard a sound, a deep thoom! thooml thooml . "Close! Damn your eyes, Jongo, close!" Sir Orfeo shouted. I ran toward the sound of his voice, tripped over a rock, and went flat. I could hear Lord Desroy shouting something and the thoom-thoom, louder than before. I scrambled up and ran on forward, and as suddenly as it had blown up, the gale died and the dust rolled away from us. Sir Orfeo was twenty feet off to my left, with Lord Desroy beside him. I changed direction and started toward them, and saw Sir Orfeo make a motion, and Lord Desroy brought his rifle up and I looked where he was aiming and out of the dust cloud a thing came galloping that was right out of #? a nightmare. It was big -- twenty, thirty feet high, running on two legs that seemed to have too many knees. The feet were huge snowshoelike pads, and they rose and fell like something in a slow-motion movie, driving dust from under them in big spurts, and at each stride the ground shook. A second one came charging out of the dust cloud, and it was bigger than the first one. Their hides were a glistening greenish brown, except where they were coated with dust, and there was a sort of cape of ragged skin flapping from the narrow shoulders of one as he ran, and I thought he must be shedding. Thick necks rose from the shoulders, with wide, flat heads that were all mouth, like the bucket of a dragline. And then a third, smaller edition came scampering after the big fellows. A ll this happened in maybe a second or two. I had skidded to a halt and was standing there in a half crouch, literally paralyzed. I couldn't have moved  if an express train had been coming straight at me. And these were worse than express trains. They were about a hundred and fifty yards away when Lord Desroy fired. I heard the Z-gun make a sharp whickering noise and an electric blue light flashed up and lit the rocks like lightning, and the lead monster broke stride and veered off to the left, running irregularly now. He leaned, losing his balance, but still driving on, His neck whipped back and up and the head flailed offside as he went down, hit, bounced half upright, his legs still pumping, then went into a tumble of flailing legs and neck and the dust closed over him, and only then I heard the shuddering boom he made hitting the ground. And the second one was still coming, closer now than number one had been when he was hit, and the little fellow -- a baby, only fifteen feet high -- sprinted up alongside him, tilted his head sideways and snapped at his big brother's side. I saw a flash of white as the hide and muscle tore. Then the little one was skidding to a halt on his haunches, his big jaws working hard over the bite he'd gotten, while the one that had supplied the snack came on, looming up as high as a twostory house, black blood streaming down his flank, coming straight at Lord Desroy. I saw the Lady Raire then, just beyond him, right in the path of the charge; and still I couldn't move. Lord Desroy had his gun up again and it flickered and flashed and made its slapping noise and the biped's head, that it had been carrying high on its long neck, drooped and the neck went slack and the head came down and hit the ground and the big haunches, with the big feet still kicking, went up and over high in the air in a somersault and slammed the ground with a smash like two semi's colliding, and flipped up and went over again with one leg still pumping, and then it was looping the loop on the ground, kicking up a dust cloud that hid everything beyond it. "Watch for baby!" Sir Orfeo yelled, and I could barely hear his IF voice through the thudding and pounding. Then the little one stalked out of the dust, tossing his head to help him swallow down what he had in his mouth. Sir Orfeo brought his gun up, and the cub was coming straight at me, and the gun tracked him and went off with a flat crackkk! that kicked a pit the size of a washtuib in the rock beside him, and the young one changed direction and trotted off, and Sir Orfeo let him go. The dust was blowing away now, except for what number two was still kicking up with one foot that was twitching, still trying to run. Lord Desroy and Sir Orfeo went over to it, and the Hunter used his pistol to put it out of its misery. It went slack, and a gush of fluid sluiced out of its mouth, and then suddenly, it was quiet. "In sooth, the beast raised a din to make the ground quake," Lord Desroy called in a light-hearted tone. He walked around the creature, and Sir Orfeo went over to the other one, and about then I got my joints unlocked and trotted after him. Sir Orfeo looked up as I came up and gave me a grin. "I think perhaps you'll make a gun-boy yet, Jongo," he said. "You were a bit slow coming up, but you held steady as a rock during the charge." And for some reason I felt kind of ashamed of myself, knowing how it had really been. V L ord Desroy spent quarter of an hour taking movies of the dead animals; then we made the hike back. "We were lucky, Desroy," Sir Orfeo told him as we settled Into our seats. "Takes a bit of doing to knock over a fine brace on the first stalk! I suggest we go back to the yacht now and call it a day." "What foolery's this?" Lord Desroy boomed out. "Wi' a foison o' quarry to hand, ye'd skulk back to thy comforts wi'out further sweat or endeavor?" "No use to start pushing our luck -- " "Prithee, spare! Ye spoke but now of bull-devil, lurking in the crags yonder." "Plenty of time to go after them later." Orfeo was still smiling, but there was an edge to his voice. He didn't like to have anyone argue with him about a hunt. "A pox on't!" Lord Desroy slammed his fist down on the arm of his chair. "Dost dream I'd loiter in my chambers with game abounding? Drive on, I say, or I'll take the tiller self!" Sir Orfeo slapped the drive lever in and the engines started up with a howl. "I was thinking of the Lady Raire," he said. "If you're that deadset on running us all ragged, very well! Though what the infernal rush is, I'm sure I don't know!" As usual, the Lady Raire sat by quietly, looking cool and calm and too beautiful to be real. Lord Desroy got out a silver flask and poured out yellow wine for her and himself, then lolled back in his chair and gazed out at the landscape rushing past.  A n hour brought us to the foothills of the range that had beeS visible from the yacht. The going was rougher here; we switched over to tracks for the climb. Sir Orfeo had quit humming to himself and was beginning to frown, as if maybe he was thinking about how nice it would be to be back in his apartment aboard the yacht, having a bath and a nice dinner, instead of being in for another four hours, minimum, in the car. We came out on a high plateau, and Sir Orfeo pulled the car under a steep escarpment and opened up and climbed down without a word to anybody. I had his crater rifle ready for him; I took the other guns and got out and Lord Desroy looked around and said something I didn't catch. "They're here right enough," Sir Orfeo answered him, sounding mad. He walked off, and Lord Desroy and the girl trailed. I had to scramble up on rough ground to get to my proper position off to Sir Orfeo's right. He was headed into a narrow cut that curved up and away in deep shadow. The sun still seemed to be in the same spot, directly overhead. My suit kept me comfortable enough, but the heat reflecting back from the stone scalded my face. Sir Orfeo noticed me working my way along up above him and snarled something about where the devil did I think I was going; I didn't try to answer that. I'd gotten myself onto a ledge that ran along twenty feet above the trail, with no way down. I stayed abreast of Sir Orfeo, awaiting a chance to rejoin them. We kept going this way, nobody talking, the happy look long gone from Lord Desroy's face now, the Lady Raire walking just to his left, Sir Orfeo out in front twenty paces. The trail did a sharp jog to the left, and I had to scramble to catch up; as I did, I saw something move on the rocks up ahead. Being above the rest of them, I had a view past the next outcropping that hung out over the trail; the movement I saw was just a flicker of something in the shadows, spread out flat on the rock like a giant leech. I felt my heart take a jump and jam itself up in my throat and I tried to yell and choked and tried again: "Sir Orfeo! Up ahead! On the right!" He stopped dead, swung his gun around and up, at the same time motioned to the others to halt. Lord Desroy checked for just a moment; then he started on up toward Sir Orfeo. The animal -- creature -- thing -- whatever it was -- moved again. Now I could see what looked like an eye near the front, surrounded by a fringe of stiff reddish hairs. I got just the one quick look, before I heard the whisper of a Z-gun from below, and the thing jerked back violently and disappeared into black shadow. Down below, Lord Desroy was lowering his gun. "Well, that tears it!" Sir Orfeo said in a too-loud voice. "Nice bit of shooting, Desroy! You failed to keep to your position, fired without my permission and then succeeded in wounding the beggar! Anything else you'd care to try before we go into that cranny after him?" IF "Methinks you skirt insolence, Orfeo," Lord Desroy started. "Not intentionally, as I'm damned!" Orfeo's face was red; I could see the flush from where I was perched, twenty feet above him. "I'll remind you I'm master of the Hunt, I'm responsible for the safety of the party -- " "I'm out of patience wi' cautious counsel!" Lord Desroy roared. "Shall I be merely cheated o my sport whilst I attend you swoons?" Sir Orfeo started to answer that, then caught himself and laughed. " 'Pon my word, you have a way about you, milord! Now, I suggest we give over this tomfoolery and give a thought to how we're going to get him out of there!" He turned and squinted up toward the place where the thing had disappeared. "I warrant ye make mockery of me," Lord Desroy growled. He jerked his head in my direction. "Dispatch yon natural to draw forth the beast!" Sir Orfeo looked up, too, then back at his boss. "The boy's new, untrained," he said. "That's a risky bit of business -- " "D'ye aver thy gun-boy lacks spirit, then?" Sir Orfeo gave me a sharp look. "By no means," he said. "He's steady enough. Jongo!" His voice changed tone. "Press on a few yards, see if you can rout the blighter out." I didn't move. I just squatted where I was and stared down at him. The next instant, something smashed against the wall beside my head and knocked me sprawling. I came up spitting dust, with my head ringing, and Lord Desroy's second shot crashed close enough to drive stone chips into my cheek. "Sir Orfeo!" I got the yell out. "He's shooting at meP I heard Sir Orfeo shout, and I rolled over and looked for a hole to dive into and in that instant saw the wounded leech-thing flow down across the rock, disappear for a second behind a spur, come into view again just above the frail, about thirty feet above Lord Desroy, between him and the Lady Raire. It must have made some sound I couldn't hear. Before I could shout Lord Desroy whirled and brought his gun up and it crackled and vivid shadows winked on the rocks. The animal leaped out and down, broad as a blanket, leathery dark, right into the gun. Lord Desroy stood his ground, firing steadily into the leechthing until the instant it struck full on him, covering him completely. It gathered itself together and lurched toward the Lady Raire, standing all alone in the trail, sixty feet behind where I was. As it moved, it left a trail of what was left of Lord Desroy. Sir Orfeo had fired once, while the thing was in the air. He ran toward it, stopped and took aim and fired again. I saw a movement off to the right, up the trail, and a second leech thing was there coming up fast behind Sir Orfeo, big as a hippopotamus, wide and flat and with its one eye gleaming green. I yelled. He didn't look up, just stood where he was, back to the leech, firing, and firing again. The wounded leech was close to the Lady Raire now, and I saw then that she had no gun, and I remembered that Lord Desroy had taken it and had been carrying it for her. She stood there, facing the thing, while Sir Orfeo poured the fire into it. At each shot, a chunk flew from its back, but it never slowed -- and behind Sir Orfeo the other one was closing the gap. Sir Orfeo could have turned his fire on it and saved himself; but he never budged. I realized I was yelling at the top of my lungs, and then I remembered I had a gun, too, slung across my back to free my hands for climbing. I grabbed for it, wasted a second or more fumbling with it, got it around and to my shoulder and aimed and couldn't find the firing stud and had to lower it and look and brought it up again and centered it on the thing only yards from Sir Orfeo's exposed back and squeezed -- The recoil almost knocked me off my feet, not that it was bad, but I wasn't expecting it. I got back on target and fired again, and again; and it kept coming, Six feet from Sir Orfeo the thing reared up, tall as a grizzly, and I got a glimpse of a yellow underside covered with shredding hooks, and I fired into it and then it was dropping down on Sir Orfeo and at the last possible second he moved, but not far enough, and the thing struck him and knocked him rolling and then he and it lay still. I traversed the gun across to the other beast and saw that it was down, ten feet from Milady Raire, bucking and writhing, coiling back on itself. It flopped up against the side wall and rolled back down, half on its back and lay still and the echoes of its struggle went racketing away up the ravine. I heard Sir Orfeo make a moaning sound where he lay all bloody and the Lady Raire looked up and her eyes met mine and we looked at each other across the terrible silence. VI S ir Orfeo was still alive, with all the flesh torn off the back of his thighs and the glistening white bone Showing. He caught at my arm when I bent over him. "Jongo -- your job now -- the Lady Raire..." I was shaking, and tears were running down my face. I tried not to look at his horrible wounds. "Buck up, man." Sir Orfeo's voice was a groan of agony. "I'm depending on you... keep her safe... your responsibility, now..." "Yes," I said. "I'll take care of her, Sir Orfeo." "Good... now... water. Fetch water... from the car..." I ran off to follow his orders. When I came back the Lady Raire met me, looking pale and with dust sticking to the perspiration on her forehead. She told me that he'd sent her to investigate a sound and then dragged himself to where his filament pistol had fallen and blown his head off. I used a crater gun to blast shallow pockets under the overhanging rock beside the trail; she helpIP ed me drag the bodies to them. Then we went back down to the car. We carried our guns at the ready, but nothing moved in all that jumble of broken rock. Sir Orfeo had been lucky about finding game, all right. The Lady Raire got into the driver's seat and headed back down the way we'd come. When we reached level ground, she stopped and looked around as if she didn't know which way to go. I tapped on the glass and her head jerked around. I think she had forgotten I was there. Poor Lady Raire, so all-alone. "That direction, Milady," I said, and pointed toward where the yacht was, out of sight over the horizon. She followed my directions. Three hours later we came up over a low ridge, and there was the yacht, glittering far away across the desert. Another forty-five minutes and we pulled up in front of the big cargo door. She jumped down and went to it and twinkled her fingers on a polished metal disk set in the hull beside it. Nothing happened. She went around to the smaller personnel door, and the same thing happened. Then she looked at me. Having her look at me was an event even then. "We cannot enter," she said in a whisper. "I mind well twas Sir Orfeo's custom to reset the entry code 'ere each planetfall lest the yacht be rifled by aborigines." "There's got to be a way," I said. I went up and hammered on the panel and on the control disk and walked all the way around the yacht and back to the door that I had sneaked in by, that first night, and tried again, but with no luck. A terrible, hollow feeling was growing inside me. "I can shoot a hole in it, maybe," I said. My voice sounded weak in the big silence. I unslung the crater gun and asked her to step back and then took aim from ten feet and fired. The blast knocked me down, but the metal wasn't even scorched. I got to my feet and brushed dust off my shins, feeling the full impact of the situation sinking in like the sun that was beating down on my back. The Lady Raire looked at me, not seeing me. "We must... take stock of what supplies may be in the car," she said after a long pause. "Then canst thou make for thyself a pallet here in the shadow of the boat." "You mean -- we're just going to sit here?" "If any rescue comes, we must be close by the yacht, else they'll not spy us in this endless waste." I took a deep breath and swallowed hard. "Milady, we can't stay here." "Indeed? Why can we not?" She stood there, a slim, aristocratic little girl, giving me a level look from those cool gray eyes. "I don't know much about the odds against anybody finding us, but we've got a long wait at best. The supplies in the car won't last long. And the heat will wear us down. We have to try to find a better spot. Now. While we're still strong." I tried to sound confident, ns if I knew what I was doing. But my voice shook. I was scared; scared sick. But I know I was right about moving on. " 'Tis a better think to perish here than to live on in the wilderness, without hope." "We're not dead yet, Milady. But we will be if we don't do something about it, now." "I'll tarry here," she said. "Flee if thou wilt, Jongo." "Sir Orfeo told me to take care of you, Milady. I'm going to do my best to follow his order." She looked at me coolly. "Wouldst force me, then?" "I'm afraid so, Milady." She walked to the car stiffly. I got in to my usual seat in back and she started up and we headed out across the desert. W e drove until the sun set and a huge, pockmarked moon rose, looking a lot like the old one back home, except that it was almost close enough to touch. We slept then, and went on, still in the dark. Day came again, nd I asked the Lady Raire to show me how to drive so I could relieve her at the wheel. After that, we drove shift on, shift off, holding course steady to the northwest. On what I estimated was the third day, Earth-style, we reached a belt of scrub-land. Half an hour later the engine made a gargly sound and died, and wouldn't go again. I went forward on foot to a rise and looked over the landscape. The scrub-dotted waste went on as far as I could see. When I got back to the car, the Lady Raire was standing beside it with a filament pistol in her hand. "Now indeed is our strait hopeless." She held the gun out to me. "Do thy final duty to me, Jongo." Her voice was suddenly a breathless whisper. I took the gun; then I whirled and threw it as far as I could. When I faced her, my hands were shaking. "Don't ever say anything like that again!" I said. "Not ever!" "Would you then have me linger on, to wither in this heat, shrivel under the sun?" I grabbed her arm. It was cool, as smooth as satin. "I'm going to take care of you, Milady," I said. "I'll get you home again safe, you'll see!" She shook her head. "I have no home, Jongo. My loyal friends are dead." "I'm still alive. And my name's not Jongo. It's Billy Danger. I'm human, too. I'll be your friend." She looked straight at me. It was the first time she ever really looked at me. I looked back, straight into her eyes. Then she smiled. "Thou art valiant, Billy Danger,"she said. "How can I then shrink from duty? Lead on, and I'll follow while my strength lasts." The car was stocked with food concentrates, plus a freezer full of delicacies that would have to be eaten first, before they spoiled. The problem was water. The tanks held about thirty gallons, but with the distiller out of There were the weapons and plenty of ammunition, first-aid supplies, some spare communicators, goggles, boots. It wasn't much to set up housekeeping on. For the next week, I quartered the landscape over a radius of about five miles, looking for a spring or water hole, with no luck. By that time, the fresh food was gone -- eaten or spoiled, and the water was down to two ten-gallon jugs full. "We'll have to try a longer hike," I told the Lady Raire. "There may be an oasis just one ridge farther than I've gone." "As you wish, Billy Danger," she said, and gave me the smile, like sunrise after a long night. We packed up the food and water and a few extras. I slung a Z gun over my shoulder, and started off at twilight, after the worst of the day's heat. It was monotonous country, just hilly enough to give us a long pull up to one low crest after another and an ankle-turning slog down the far side. I steered due west, not because the prospects looked any better in that direction, but just because it was easier to steer straight toward the setting sun. We did about twenty miles before dark, another forty in two marches before the sun rose. I worried about the Lady Raire, but there was nothing I could do that I wasn't already doing. We slogged on toward the next ridge, hoping for a miracle on the other side. And always the next side looked the same. We rested in the heat of the long day, then marched on, into the glare of the sun. And about an hour before sunset, we saw the cat. H e was standing on a rock on the crest of a rise, whipping his tail from side to side in a slow, graceful motion. He made a graceful leap to a lower rock and was just a dark shadow moving against the slope ahead. I unlimbered my rifle and watched him close. At thirty feet, he paused and sat down on his haunches and wrinkled his face and began licking his chest. He finished and stuck out a long tongue and yawned and then rose and went loping off into the dusk, the way he'd come. All the while, we stood there and watohed him, not saying a word. As soon as he was gone, I went to where he'd been sitting. His pawprints were plain in the powdery dust. I started believing in him, then. I might see imaginary cats, but never imaginary cat tracks. We set off following them. T he water hole was in a hollow in the rock, hidden behind a wall of black-green foliage growing on the brink of a ravine. The Lady Raire stopped to gaze at it, but I stumbled down the slope and fell full length in the water and drank in big gulps and luckily choked and had a coughing fit before I could drink myself to death. IF There was a steep jumble of rock rising behind the pool, with the dark mouths of caves showing. I picked my way around the pond in the near-dark with my gun ready in my hand. There was a smell of cat in the air. I was grateful to tabby for leading me to water, but I didn't want him jumping on our backs now that it looked like we might live another few days. The caves weren't much, just holes about ten feet deep, not quite high enough to stand up in, with enough dirt drifted in them to make a more or less level floor. The Lady Raire picked out one for herself, and I helped her clean out the dead leaves and cat droppings and fix up a stone that could be rolled into the opening to block it, in case anything bigger than a woodchuck wanted in. Then she picked out another one and told me it was mine and .started in on it. It was dark when we finished. I saw her to her den, then sat down outside it with the pistol in my hand and went to sleep... -- and woke hungry, clear-headed, and wondering how a cat happened to be here, in this super-Mojave. I thought about the direbeasts and the meat-shredding leeches that had killed Lord Desroy and Sir Orfeo. The cat was no relative of theirs. He had been a regulation-type black and gray and tan striped feline, complete with vertical-slitted pupils and retractable claws. He looked like anybody's house cat, except that he was the size of a collie dog. I'd heard about parallel evolution, and I hadn't been too surprised when Sir Orfeo had told me about how many four-legged, oneheaded creatures there were in the universe. But a copy this perfect wasn't possible. That meant one of two things: Either I had dreamed the whole thing -- which was kind of unlikely, inasmuch as when I looked down, I saw two more cats just like the other one, in the bright moonlight down by the water -- or our yacht wasn't the first human-owned ship to land on Gar # . I n the morning light, the water looked clear and inviting. The Lady Raire studied it for a while, then called to me. "Billy Danger, watch thee well the while I lave me. Methinks 'twill be safe enow." She glanced my way, and I realized she was talking about going for a swim. I just stared at her. "How now, art stricken dumb?" she called. "The pond may be full of poison snakes, crocodiles, quicksand and undertows," I said. "I'd as lief be devoured as go longer unwashed," she proceeded to unzip the front of the tunic she'd changed into from the temperature suit and stepped out of it. And for the second time in one minute, I was struck dumb. She stood there in front of me, as naked as a goddess and as beautiful, and said: "I charge thee, Billy Danger, take not thine eyes from me," and turned and waded down into the water. It was the easiest order to follow I ever heard of. She stayed in for half an hour, stroking up and down as unconcerned as if she were in the pool at some high-priced resort at Miami Beach. Once or twice she ducked under and stayed so long I found myself wading in to look for her. After the second time I complained, and she laughed and promised to stay on top. "Verily hast thou found a garden in the wilderness, Billy Danger," she said after she had her clothes back on. "'Tis so peaceful -- and in its rude way, so fair." "Not much like home, though, I guess, Milady," I said. But she changed the subject, as she always did when the conversation brought back too many memories. In the next few days, I made two trips back to the car, brought in everything that looked as if it might be useful; then we settled down to what I might describe as a very quiet routine. She strolled around, climbed the rocks, brought home small green shrubs and flowers that she planted around the caves and along the path and watered constantly, using a pot made of clay from the poolside cooked by a Z gun on wide beam. I spent my time exploring to the west and north and trying to make friends with the cats. There were plenty of them; at certain times of the day, there'd be as many as ten in sight at one time, around the water hole. They didn't pay much attention to us; just watched us when we came toward them, and at about fifteen feet, rose casually and moved off into the thick growth along the ravine. They were well fed and lazy, just nice hearth-side tabbies, a little larger than usual. There was one with a few streaks of orange in among the black and tan that I concentrated on, mainly because I could identify him easily. Every time I saw him I'd go out and move up as close as I could without spooking him, sit down and start to play with a ball of string from the car. He sat and watched. I'd roll it toward him, then pull it back. He moved in closer. I let him get a paw on it, then jerked it. He went after it and cuffed it, and I pulled it in and tossed it out again. I n a week the game was a regular routine. In two, he had a name -- Eureka -- and was letting me scratch him between the ears. In three, he had taken to lying across the mouth of my cave, not even moving when I stepped over him going out. The Lady Raire watched all this with a sort of indulgent smile. According to her, cats were pets on most of the human inhabited world she knew of. She wasn't sure where they had originated, but she smiled when I said they were a native of Earth. "In sooth, Billy Danger, 'tis a truism that each unschooled mind fancies itself the center of the Universe. But the stars were seeded by Man long ago, and by his chattels with him." At first, the Lady Raire didn't pay much attention to my pet, but one day he showed up limping, and she spent half an hour carefully reIF moving a splinter from 'his foot. The next day she gave him a bath, and brhshed his fur to a high gloss. After that, he took to following her on her walks. And it wasn't long before he took to sleeping at the mouth of her cubbyhole. He got more petting that way. I watched the cats, trying to see what it was they fed on, on the theory that whatever they ate we could eat too. Our concentrates wouldn't last forever. But I never saw them pounce on anything. They came to the water hole to drink and lie around in the shade; then they wandered off again into the undergrowth. One day I decided to follow Eureka. "An thou wilt," the Lady Raire said, smiling at me. "Tho I trow thy cat o' mountain lives on naught but moonbeams." "Baked moonbeam for dinner coming up," I said. The cat led me up the rocks and through the screen of alien foliage at the north side of the hollow, then struck out along the edge of the ravine, which was filled from edge to edge by a mass of deep-green vines. The chasm was about three hundred yards long, fifty yards wide; I couldn't see the bottom under the tangle of green, but I could make out the big stems, as thick as my leg, snaking down into the deep shadows for at least a hundred feet. And I could see the cats. They lay in crotches of the big vine, walked delicately along the thick stems, peered out of shadows with green eyes. There were a few up on the rim, sitting on their haunches, watching me watching them. Eureka yawned and switched his tail against my thigh, then made a sudden leap and disappeared into the green gloom. By getting down on all fours and shading my eyes, I could see the broad branch he'd jumped to. f could have followed, but the idea of going down into the maze full of cats lacked appeal. I got up and started off along the rim. I noticed that it was scattered with what looked like chips of thick eggshell. 'T'he ravine shallowed out to A nothing at the far end. The vines were less dense here, and I could see rock strata slanting down into the depths. There were strange knobs and shafts of blackish rock imbedded in the lighter stone, I found one protruding near the surface and saw that it was a fossilized bone. The rock was full of them. That would be a matter of deep interest to a paleontologist specializing in the fauna of Gar #, but it was no help to me. I needed live meat. If there was any around -- excepting the cats, and I didn't like the idea of eating them, for six or eight reasons I could think of offhand -- it had to be down below, in the shade of the greenery. The descent looked pretty easy, here at the end of the cut. I hitched my gun around front for quick access, and started down. The rock slanted off under me at an angle of about thirty degrees. The big vines bending up over my head were tough, woody, scaled with dead-looking bark. Only a few green tendrils curled up 'here, reaching for sunlight. The air was fresh and cool in the shade of the big leaves; there was a sharp, pungent odor of green life, mixed with the rank smell of cat. Fifty feet down the broken slope the growth got too thick to be ignored; it was switch over to limb-climbing or go back. I went on. It was easy going at first. The stems weren't too close together to push between, and there was still plenty of light to see by. I could hear the cats moving around, back deeper in the growth. I reached a major stem, as big as my torso, and started down it. There were plenty of handholds here. Big seed pods hung in clusters near me. A lot of them had been gnawed, either by the cats or by what the cats ate. So far I hadn't seen any signs of the latter. I broke off one of the pods. It was about a foot long, knobby and pale green. It broke open easily and half a dozen beans as big as egg yolks rolled out. I took a nibble of one. It tasted like raw beans. After a couple of weeks on concentrates, even that was good -- if it didn't kill me. I went down. The light was deep green now, a luminous dusk filtered through a hundred feet of foliage. The trunk I was following curved sharply, and I worked my way around to the up side, descended another ten feet, and my feet thunked solidly against something hard. I had to get down on all fours to see that I was on a smooth, curving surface of tarnished metal. Something thumped beside me like O a dropped blanket; it was Eureka, coming over to check on me. He sat and washed his face while I rooted around the base of the big vine, saw that it was growing out through a fracture in the metal. The wood had bulged and spread and shaped itself to conform to the opening. I had the impression that it was the vine that had burst the metal. By crawling, I was able to explore an oval area about fifteen feet long by ten wide before the vines slanted in too close to let me move. All of it was the same iodine-colored metal, with no seams, no variations in contour, with the exception of the bulge around the break. If I wanted to see more, I'd have to do a little landclearance. I got out the pistol and set it on needle-beam, cut enough wood away to get a look into a room the size of a walk-in freezer, almost filled with an impacted growth of wood. I backed out then, wormed my way over to the big trunk and climbed back to the surface. There was a lot more to see, but what I wanted to do now was get back in a hury and tell the Lady Raire that under the vines in the ravine I'd found a full-sized spaceship. F ifteen minutes later, she stood on the rim of the ravine with me. I could dimly make out the whole three-hundred foot length of the ship, now that I knew what to look for. It was lying at an angle of about IF fifteen degrees from the horizontal, the high end to the south. "It must have been caught by an earthquake," I said. "Or a Garquake." "I ween full likely she toppled thither," the Lady Raire said. "During a tempest, mayhap. Look thee, where a great fragment has fallen from the rim of the abyss. And see yon broken stones, crushed as she fell." We found an access route near the south end, well worn by cats, and made an easier approach than my first climb. I led her to the hatch, and we spent the next hour burning the wood away from it, climbed through onto a floor that slanted down under a tangle of vine stem to a drift of broken objects half buried in black dirt at the low end. The air was cool and damp, and there was a sour smell of rotted vegetation and stagnant water. We waded knee deep in foul-smelling muck to a railed stair lying on its side, crawled along it to another open door. I stepped through into a narrow corridor, and a faint, greenish light sprang up. I felt the hair stand up on the back of my heck. "I misdoubt me not 'tis but an automatic system," Milady said calmly. "Still working, after all this time?" "Why not? Twas built to endure." She pointed to a dark opening in a wall. "Yon shaft should lead us to the upper decks." She went past me, and I followed, feeling like a very small kid in a very large haunted castle. T'he shaft led us to a grim-looking A place full of broken piping and big, dark shapes the size of moving vans that Milady said were primitive ion-pulse engines. There was plenty of breakage visible, but only a few dead tendrils of vine. We climbed on forward, found a storeroom, a plotting room full of still-shiny equipment, and a lounge where built-in furniture stuck out from what was now the wall. The living quarters were on the other side of the lounge and beyond there was a room with a ring of dark TV screens arching up overhead around a central podium that had snapped off at the base and was hanging by a snarl of conduits. Beyond that point, the nose of the ship was toe badly crushed to get into. There was no signs of the original owners around, with the possible exception of a few scraps that might have been human bone. "What do you think, Milady?" I asked her. "Is there anything here we can use?" "If so, 'twere wonderful, Billy Danger. Yet would I see more ere I abandon hope." Back in the hold, she spent some time crawling over the big vines that came coiling up from somewhere down below. "Tis passing strange," she said. "These stems rise not from soil, but rather burgeon from the bowels of the vessel. And meseemeth they want likeness to the other flora of this world." I pulled one of the big, leathery leaves over to me. It was heart shaped, about eight inches wide. "It looks like an ordinary pea to me," I said. "Just overgrown -- like the cats." "We'll trace these to their be beginnings, their mystery to resolve." The Lady Raire pointed. "An mine eyes deceive me not, they rise through yonder hatch." There was just room to squeeze through between the thigh-thick trunks, into a narrow service shaft. I flashed my light along it and saw bones. "Just a cat," I said, more to reassure me than Milady. We went on, ducking under festoons of thick vine. We passed another cat skeleton, well scattered. There was a strange smell, something like crushed almonds with an under-taint of decay. The vines led fifty feet along the passage, then in through a door that had been forced outward off its hinges. The room beyond was a dark mass of coiled white roots. On its far side, faint twilight shone in through a break in the hull. There was a soft clink, like water dripping into a still pond, a faint rustling. I flashed my light down. The floor of the big room slanted off sharply. Down among the of ambor light glowed. The Lady Raire took a step back. "Come, Billy Danger! I like this not!" That was as far as she got before the mass of vine roots in front of me trembled and bulged and all the devils in Hell came swarming out. Something dirty white, the size of O a football, jittering on six spindly legs rushed at me, clicking a pair of jaws that opened sideways in a face like an imp in one of those medieval paintings. I jumped back and swung a kick and its biters clamped onto my boot toe like a steel trap. Another one bounced high enough to rip at my knee; the tough coverall held, but the hide under it tore. Something zapp'ed from behind my right ear and a flash of blue fire winked, and two of the things skittered away and a stink of burnt horn hit me in the face. All this in the first half second. I had my pistol up then, squeezing the firing lever, playing it over them like a hose. They curled and jumped and died and more came swarming over the dead ones. "We're losing," I yelled. "We've got to bottle them up!" The big vine stem was on fire, and sap was bubbling out and spitting in the flames. I ducked down and grabbed up a dead one and threw him into the opening, and beamed another one that poked his snout through and took a step and tripped and went flat on my face. I threw my hands up to protect my head and heard a yowl, and something dark bounded across me, and there was a snap and a thud and I sat up and saw Eureka, whirling and pouncing, batting with both paws. Behind him the Lady Raire, splashed to the knee with brown, a smear of blood on her cheek, was aiming and firing as steadily as if she were shooting at clay pipes at the county fair. And then Eureka was sitting on his haunches, making a face at IF me, and the Lady Raire was turning toward me, and there was a last awkward scuffling sound and then silence. "Well, that answers one question," I said. "Now we know what the cats eat." I t was a hard climb back down along the lift shaft, out through the hold, and up to the last of the sunlight. She got out her belt medikit and started dabbing liquid fire into the cuts on my legs, back, arms and thighs. While she doctored, I talked. "That was the hydroponics room. When the ship crashed, or fell in the ravine, or got caught in an earthquake, the hull was opened there -- or near enough that the plants could sense sunlight. They went for it. Either the equipment that watered them and provided the chemicals they needed was still working, or they found water and soil at the bottom of the ravine. Maybe both. They liked it here; plenty of sunshine, anyway. They adapted and grew and with no competition from other plant life, they developed into what we found." "There may be truth in thy imaginings, Billy Danger," Milady said. "The vessel's of a very ancient type; 'tis like to those in use on Zeridajh some seven thousand years since. "That mi?ht he long enough for a plant to evolve giant size," I said. "Especially if the local sun puts out a lot of hard radiation. Same for the cats. I guess there were a couple of them aboard -- or maybe just one pregnant female. She survived the crash and found water and food -- " "Nay, Billy Danger. Thy Eureka may sup on such dainties as those he slew in they defense -- but they'd make two snaps of any houseborn puss." "I didn't mean that. A cat can live on beans, if it has to. Anyway, the critters weren't as big then." "How now? Knowest thou the history of Gar's creatures as well as of more familiar kinds?" "They aren't natives, any more than the cats and the peas. They came along on the ship. To be specific, on the cat." "Dost rave? Art feverish?" "I'm ashamed to admit it," I said. "But I know a flea when I see one." W e waited until daylight to go into the ship again. The location of the cat bones gave us a pretty good idea of where the boundaries of flea territory were. Apparently they kept to their dark hold and lived long, happy lives sucking juice from the vines, or an occasional lone cat who meandered over the line. Population pressure drove enough of them upstairs to keep the cats supplied; and the cat droppings and their bodies when they died wound up at the bottom of the ravine, to keep the cycle going. The Lady Raire had the idea of trying to locate the ship's communication section. She finally did -- in the smashed nose section. I crawled in beside her to look at the ruins of what had once been a message center that could bounce words and music across interstellar distances at a speed that was a complicated multiple of the speed f light Now it looked like a junkman's nightmare. "Alack, I deemed I might fine here a signaler, in tact. 'Twere folly -- and yet... She sounded so down-hearted that I had to say something to cheer her up. "There's an awful lot of gear lying around in there," I said. "Maybe we could salvage something." "Dost know aught of these matters, Billy Danger?" she said in a lofty tone. "Not much," I said. "I know my way around the inside of an ordinary radio. I'm not talking about sending three-D pictures in glorious color; hut maybe a simple signal " She wanted to know more. I exone summer when I had the idea of Getting Into Radio Now. I felt like an unspoiled native of Borneo explaining flint-chipping techniques to a designer of H-bombs. It took us a week to assemble a transmitter capable of putting out a simple signal that Milady Raire assured me would show up as a burst of static on any screen within a couple of light-years We led a big cable from the energy cells that powered the stand-by lighting system, rigged it so that what juice was in them would drain in one final burst. The ship itself would act as an antenna, once we'd wired our fig to the hull. We climbed out of her dragging a length of coaxial cable, got back a couple of hundred yards in case of miscalculation with the power core, and touched her off. For a couple of seconds, nothing happened; then I felt a tremor run through the ground and a moment later a dull ka-whoom! rumbled up from the chasm, followed by a rapid exodus of cats. For the next hour, there was a lot of activity: cats chasing fleas, fleas bouncing around looking for cover and the Lady R. Raire and me trying to stay ouit of the way of both parties. Then the smoke faded away, the fleas scuttled for cover, the cats went back down to lie under the leaves or wandered off in the direction of the water hole, and Milady and I settled down to wait. I made the discovery that by cutting into a vine just below a leaf, I could get a trickle of cool water. The Lady Raire had the" idea of hauling a stem out and getting it growing in the direction of the caves; we did, and it grew enthusiastically. By the time we'd been in residence for another month, we had shade and running water on tap right outside the door. I asked the Lady Raire to teach me her language, and along with the new words I learned a lot about her home world, Zeridajh. It was old -- fifty thousand years of written history -- but the men there were still men. It was no classless Utopia where people strolled in misty gardens spouting philosophy, There was plenty of strife and unIF happiness, and although the Lady Raire never talked about herself, I got the impression she had her share of the latter. I wondered how it happened that she was off wandering the far end of the Galaxy in the oompany of two unlikely types like Lord Desroy and Sir Orfeo, but I didn't ask her. If she wanted to tell me, she could. But one day I said something that made her laugh. "I thought -- Sir Orfeo said Lord Desroy had been on Earth three hundred years ago. And you speak the same old-fashioned English -- " She laughed. "Billy Danger, didst deem me so ancient?" "No -- but -- " "I learned my English speech from Lord Desroy, somewhat altered, mayhap, by Sir Orfeo. But 'twas late; indeed, I have but eighteen years, Earth reckoning." "And you've been away from home for four years? Isn't your family worried?" Then I shut up, at the look that crossed her face. The weather had been gradually changing; the days grew shorter and cooler. The flowers milady had brought in from the caves dropped their blossoms and turned brown. The cats got restless, and we'd hear them yowling and scrapping, down in their leafy den. And one day, there were kittens everywhere. Our diet consisted of beans, fried, baked, sliced and eaten raw, chopped and roasted, mixed with food concentrates to make stews and soups. We used the scissors from the first-aid kit to trim our hair back. Fortunately, I had no beard to trim. The days got longer again, and for a while the ravine was a fairyland of blossoms that filled the air with a perfume so sweet it was almost dizzying. At sunset, the Lady Raire would walk out across the desert and look at the purple towers in the west. I trailed her, with a gun ready, in case any of Sir Orfeo's direbeasts wandered this way. And one night the ship came. IX I was sound asleep; the Lady Raire woke me and I rolled out grabbing for my gun and she pointed to a star that glared blue and got bigger as we watched it. It came down in absolute silence and ground in the desert a quarter of a mile from us in a pool of blue light that cast hard shadows across Milady's face. I was so excited I could hardly breathe, but she wasn't smiling. "The lines of yon vessel are strange to me, Billy Danger," she said. "'Tis of most archaic appearance. Seest thou the double hull, like unto the body of an insect?" "All I can see is the glare from the business end." The blue glow was fading. Big floodlights came on and lit up the desert all around the ship like high noon. "Mayhap..." she started, and a whistling, whooping noise boomed out across the flats. It stopped and the echoes bounced and faded and it was silent again. "If 'twere speech, I know it not," Milady said. "I guess we'd better go meet them," I said, but I had a powerful urge to run and hide among the pea vines. "Bill Danger, I like this not." Her hand gripped my arm. "Let's flee to the shelter of the ravine." Her idea was a little too close to mine; I had to show her how silly her feminine intuition was. "And miss the only chance we'll ever have to get off this dust-ball? Come on, Milady. You're going home." "Nay, Bill -- " But I grabbed her arm and advanced. As we came closer, the ship looked as big as a wasp-waisted skyscraper. Three cars came around from the far side of it. Two of them fanned out to right and left; the third headed toward us, laying a dust trail behind it. It was squat, rounded, dark coppery colored without windows. It stopped fifty feet away with its blunt snout aimed at us. A round panel about a foot in diameter swung open and a glittery assembly poked out and rotated half a turn and was still. "It looks like it's smelling of us," I said, but the jolly note in my voice was a failure. Then a lid on top popped up like a jack-in-thebox, and the most incredible creature I had ever seen climbed out. H e was about four feet high and almost as wide, and my first impression was that he was a dwarf in Roman armor; then I saw that the armor was part of him. He scrambled down the side of the car on four short, thick legs, then reared his torso up, and I got a good look at the face set between a pair of seal flippers in the middle of his chest. It reminded me of a blownup photo of a bat I'd seen once. There were two eyes, some orifices, lots of wrinkled gray-brown skin, a mouth like a fanged frog. An odd metallic odor came from him. He stared at us, and we stared back. Then a patch of rough, pinkish skin centered in a tangle of worms below his face bulged out, and a gluey voice came from it. I didn't understand the words, but somehow he sounded cautious. The Lady Raire answered, speaking too fast for me to follow. I listened while they batted it back and forth. Once she glanced at me, and I caught my name and the word "property." I wasn't sure just how she meant it. While they talked, the other two cars came rumbling in from offside ringing us in. More of the midgets trotted up, holding what looked like stacks of silver teacups, glued together, the open ends toward us. The spokesman took a step back and made a quick motion of his flippers. "Throw down guns," he said in Zeridajhi. He didn't sound cautious. The Lady Raire's hand went toward her pistol. I grabbed her arm. "I know these hagseed now," she said. "They mean naught but dire mischief to any of my race!" "Those are gunports under the headlights on the cars," I said. "I think we'd better do what it says." "If we draw and fire as one -- " "No use, Milady. They've got the drop on us." I? She hesitated a moment longer, then unsnapped her gunbelt and let it fall. I did the same. Our new friend made a noise and batted his flippers against his sides, and his gun-boys moved in. He pointed at the Lady Raire. "Fetter this one," he said. "And kill the other." Two or three things happened at once then. One of the teacup-guns swung my way, and the Lady Raire made a sound and threw herself at the gunner. He knocked her down, and I charged at him and something exploded in my face and for a long time I floated in a river, shooting the rapids, and each time I slammed against a submerged rock, I heard myself groan, and then I opened my eyes and I was lying on my face with my cheek in a puddle of congealing blood, and the ship and the monsters and the Lady Raire were gone. F or the first few hours my consciousness kept blinking on and off like a defective table lamp. I'd come to and try to move and the next thing I knew I was coming to again. Then suddenly it was daylight, and Eureka was sitting beside me, yowling softly. This time I managed to roll over and raise my head far enough to see myself. I was a mess. There was blood all over me. I hurt all over, too, so that was no clue. I explored with my hands and found a rip in my coverall along my left side, and through that I could feel a furrow wide enough to lay two fingers in. Up higher, there was a hole in my right shoulder that seemed to come out in back; and the side of my neck felt like hamburger, medium rare. The pain wasn't really as bad as you'd expect. I must have been in shock. I flopped back and listened to all the voices around me. I heard Sir Orfeo: She's your responsibility now , Jongo. Take care of her . "I tried," I said. "I really tried." It's all right, the Lady Raire was standing by me, looking scared, but smiling at me. I trust you, Billy Danger . The light from the open furnace door glowed in her black hair, and she turned and stepped into the flames and I yelled and readied after her, but the fires leaped up and I was awake again, sobbing. "They've got her," I said aloud. "She was frightened of them, but I had to show off. I led her out to them like a lamb to the slaughter..." I pictured her, dragged aboard the dwarves' ship, locked away in a dark place, alone and terrified and with no one to help her. And she'd trusted me. "My fault," I groaned. "My fault! But don't be afraid, Milady. I'll find you. They think I'm dead, but I'll trick them; I won't die. I'll stay alive, and find them and take you home... T he next time I was aware of what was going on, the cat was gone and the sun was directly overhead and I was dying of thirst. By turning my head, I could see the IF vines along the edge of the ravine. There was shade there and water. I got myself turned over on my stomach and started crawling. It was a long trip -- nearly a hundred yards -- and I passed out so many times I lost count. But I reached the vines and got myself a drink, and then it was dark. That meant it had been about seventytwo hours since the slug-people had me. I must have slept for a long time, then. When I woke up Eureka was back, with a nice' fresh flea for me. "Thanks, boy," I said when he dropped the gift on my chest and nudged me with his nose. "It's nice to know somebody cares." "You're not dead yet," he said, and his voice sounded like Orfeo's. I called to him, but he was gone, down into the darkness. I followed him, along a trail of twisted vines, but the light always glimmered just ahead, and I was cold and wet and then the fleas came swarming out on the empty eyes of a giant skull and swarmed over me and I felt them eating me alive and I woke up, and I was still there, under the vines, and my wounds were hurting now and Eureka was gone and the flea with him. I got myself up on all fours to have another drink from the water vine and noticed a young bean pod sprouting nearby. I was hungry and I tore it open and ate the beans. And the next time I woke up, I was stronger. For five long Garish days I stayed under the vines; then I made the trek to the caves. After that, on a diet of concentrates, I gained strength faster. I spent my time exercising my wounds so they wouldn't stiffen up too much as they healed, and talking to the cat. He didn't answer me any more, so I judged I was getting better. No infections set in; the de-lousing Sir Orfeo had given me probably had something to do with that, plus the absence of microbes on Gar #. Finally a day came when it was time to get out and start seeing the world again. I slung my crater gun, not without difficulty, since my right arm didn't want to cooperate, and made a hike around the far side of the ravine, with half a dozen rest stops. I was halfway back to the hut and the drink of water I'd promised myself as a reward, when the second ship came. X T his one was smaller, something like Lord Orfeo's yacht, but with less of a polish. I hid behind the vines with my gun aimed until I saw what were undoubtedly men emerge. Then I went up to meet them. They were small, yellow-skinned, with round, bald heads. The captain was named Ancu-Uriru, and he spoke a little Zeridajhi. He frowned at my scars, which were pretty spectacular, and wanted to know where the rest of the ship's complement were. I told him there was just me. That made him frown worse than ever. It seemed he had picked up our signal and answered it in the hope of collecting a nice reward from somebody, along with a little salvage. I told him about the ship in the ravine, and he sent a couple of men down who came back shaking their heads. They showed every sign of being ready to leave then. "What about me?" I asked AncuUriru. "We leave you in peace," he said in an offhand way. "There's such a thing as too much peace," I told him. "I want to go with you. I'll work my way." "I have no need of you; space is limited aboard my small vessel. And I fear your wounds render you somewhat less than capable to perform useful labor. Here you are more comfortable. Stay, with my blessing." "Suppose I told you where there was another ship, a luxury model, in perfect shape -- if you can get the doors open?" That idea seemed to strike a spark. We dickered for a while, and there were hints that a little torture might squeeze the answers out of me with no need for favors in return. But in the end we struck a deal. My passage to a civilized port in return for Lord Desroy's yacht. It took them most of a Garish day to tickle her locks open. Ancu Uriru looked her over, then ordered his personal effects moved into the owners suite. I was assigned to ride on his old tub along with a skeleton crew. Just before boarding time, Eureka came bounding across the flats toward me. One of the men had a gun in his hand, and I jumped in front of him just in time. "This is my cat," I told him. "He saved my life. We used to have long talks, while I was sick." The men all seemed to be catlovers; they gathered around and admired him. "Bring the beast along," AncuUriru said. We went aboard then, and an hour later the ship lifted off Gar #, as nearly as I could calculate, one year after I had landed. captured here and now, and plunged into the deeps of galactic intrigue! by Keith Laumer A memorable Novelette by Samuel R. Delany by Andre Norton These and many more in the June IF -- reserve your copy today I IF IF  Novelette The robots knew what they were doing, all right... they just wouldn't let humans in on it! I W hen it started, I had just finished up the charts on our new rocket-propulsion system, and I felt a little funny. I sat back in my chair, lit a cigarette and reflected with an effort at sanguinity that we could now deliver more hell quicker to anywhere on Earth than ever before. I blew a smoke ring which drifted slowly toward the ceiling of my office, and I frowned at it. Damn it, with a two-year project wrapped up at last, I should have felt relief and elation, not some vague uneasiness. Nerves, I told myself. Overwork. Time to go out and celebrate, shake the cobwebs out of the old pleasure centers. I reached for the telephone to call Betty at home. But then I thought of something: hadn't Betty talked about a meeting of her damned Azalea Committee tonight? Hadn't I written it down on a slip of paper in my wallet? I got out the wallet and looked. Yes, there was the note, and yes, damn it, that meeting was tonight. I muttered something halfway between a curse and a simple "Ah hell." Then I saw another note, which had fallen onto the floor when I'd slipped out the first one. I picked it up and glanced at it: it was a phone number. I started to put it back into the wallet compartment. Wait a minute -- whose phone number? I looked again and gradually felt a frown creep onto my face. TTie number was a local exchange, but I didn't recognize it. And it was written in my own handwriting -- I have a particularly bad "#," which looks sort of like a snake that didn't know when to stop. The slip of paper had evidently been right behind the one with the note about Betty, so that ought to make it recent. But I couldn't figure out whose number it was, and the note didn't give any clue. Y ou ever have that happen to you? Or maybe you're one of those guys who keeps his wallet in in order, nothing in it but money and credit cards and pictures of the wife and kids and maybe a pocket calendar. Me, I write notes to myself about things to do when I get home or to the office, or names of books I want to look up someday, or the number of a cough medicine prescription or direction? to someone's house. And, of course, people's phone numbers. Usually, though, I put their names down too. After about half a minute of frowning at the number I decided to shrug and forget it. So I put the paper back into my wallet and turned to glance through the mail in my wasn't interesting, nor even important, and my secretary could handle all of it anyway. I turned to my desk calendar, but there wasn't anything on the agenda for today, not even a lunch date. I'd been so involved in the Project these last weeks that I'd gradually slipped out of the mainstream of executive work at the corporation. Hell. I sat back again, feeling definitely at loose ends. And I kept thinking about that silly phone number. Anybody with the stuff to get a four-window office in the high-pressure world of # has to be a decisive man, I told myself. I took out the slip of paper with the number on it, picked up my phone and punched out the number. A tinny woman's voice on the other end said, "#-#." (Or some such number.) "Hello," I said. "May I ask what company this is?" There were two clicks, then one. The tinny voice said, "#-#." "Excuse me," I said, speaking more loudly this time. "I think we IF II have a bad connection. I was asking what company this is." More clicks. "What is your name, please?" asked the voice. "Is this an answering service?" I asked. "What is your name, please?" the voice asked again. I sighed. Yes, it sounded like some answering service that wasn't about to give out any information unless you were on the Approved List. "This is Charles Barrow. I don't know if you -- " Click. Click click. "Your appointment is at five o'clock this afternoon," the voice said. "# Madison, Room #." "My what?" I said. "Look, really, I don't even know who I'm talking to. What appointment?" "Five o'clock this afternoon. # Madison, Room #." Then there was a final click, as she hung up abruptly. For a minute I stared at the suddenly dead phone; then I laughed. Then I stopped and wondered if I ought to be annoyed. I wasn't annoyed, but I thought maybe I should be. What kind of business could afford to antagonize customers with that kind of flagrant disrespect, anyway? Which brought me right back to what I'd been wondering about when I'd called: who was that on the other end? I looked at my desk calendar again, and it was still blank. Sighing, I wrote on it, Appt # Mad Rm # -- #:#. # # Madison was a big, square office building like most of the newly constructed people-boxes in that area. It had a glass revolving door leading into a large lobby serviced by eight automatic elevators. At that hour of the day most people were just leaving work; I caught an elevator as it disgorged a load of them and rode alone up to the eleventh floor. Room # was at the end of the hall on my right: a nondescript door with a frosted-glass window lettered R.O.B.O.T. I paused, looking at that; then I knocked and entered. For a minute I didn't see the receptionist. There was a teak desk, imitation Danish midcentury, with some papers on it and a telephone switchboard behind it. Next to the switchboard, behind the desk, was a whirring and clicking mass of polished steel with metal arms that ran on visible pulleys, a round globe on top from which a web of telephone wires ran into the switchboard, and a spring-steel neck beneath this globular "head." As I hesitated inside the door, a familiar tinny voice issued from a grille where the machine might have had a mouth. "What is your name, please?" the voice asked. Istared for a moment, caught off guard. Robots of one sort or another were in common use in a lot of industries these days (though seldom along the Madison Avenue circuit), but the construction of this one struck me as bizarre in the extreme. Then the receptionist clicked once and twice and said, "Your appointment is at nine o'clock tomorrow morning," and I realized it was speaking into the phone. "# Madison, Room #," it said. I waited for it to go through its cycle. "Nine o'clock tomorrow morning. # Madison, Room #," it said, and one of the lines in the switchboard pulled itself out and snaked back down into the panel at its base. The receptionist whirred, then revolved to face me. "My name is Charles Barrow," I said. "I have an appointment." "Yes, Mr. Barrow," the tinny female voice said. "Will you be seated, please." The machine revolved back to face its switchboard. I sat down on the couch and took a few moments lighting a cigarette to gather my thoughts. Here I was at the office, and I still hadn't solved the silly question which had brought me here: what was this place? I leaned forward and asked conversationally, "What does R.O.B. O.T. stand for, anyway?" "R.O.B.O.T. spells 'robot,'" the receptionist said without turning. "I know," I said. "But what is R.O.B.O.T .?" There was a ripid whirr inside the machine, then it said, "Robot, noun: An automatic apparatus or device that performs functions ordinarily ascribed to human beings or operates with what appears to be almost human intelligence." "That's fine," I said patiently. "But what is this place, this organization?" The receptionist clicked twice. "#-#," it said. Then it clicked some more. "What is your name, please?" I sighed. "I'm Charles Barrow. I have an appointment for five o'clock." "Yes, Mr. Barrow. Will you be seated, please." I sat back and waited. H alf a hour later I was still sitting there and getting irritated. I'm not used to being kept waiting. I was debating with myself whether to try communicating my displeasure to the obviously limited robot receptionist or to simply to walk out. I could phone Betty and maybe convince her to let the azaleas evolve by themselves for one more week, and we could still make a night of it. I decided just to walk out. Picking up my hat, I stood up -- and the receptionist gave a rapid clickclickclickclick and said, "You may go in now." I hesitated, looking at the impassive metal globe-face with the telephone cords running to the switchboard. Like a metal Medusa, I thought angrily. You're supposed to look at it and turn to stone so that you'll wait until whoever the hell's inside finally gets around to seeing you. Whoever the hell's inside... That was what did it. There'd be no use in telling off the under-programmed robot receptionist, but the man inside was a different matter. Setting an appointment for five o'clock, then keeping me waitIF ing... Yes, he deserved a word or two. The receptionist was pointing a level metal arm to a door on my right. I turned and went through it. On the other side was a long hall, wide and empty like a hospital corridor, except that some distance down it I could see a couple of figures scurrying along from one room to another opening off the hall. They were robots too -- the one I saw most clearly ran on two wheels and had a series of metal arms ending in wrenchlike "hands." It turned its small head toward me briefly, and I saw bright green eyes; then it disappeared into a room. Out of the door nearest to me along the hall came another robot, this one tall and slender, basically manlike in construction: two legs and two arms, a torso and a head. The head had three red circles about where you'd expect eyes and a mouth, and as it turned and approached I saw that this was apparently the case, for the eyes were faceted like a bee's and the mouth was a speaker-grille. It stumped up to me on its metal feet, stopped and said politely, "Please follow me." Then, without waiting for an answer, it turned and led me down the hall. I followed. We went all the way to the end, where the corridor branched right, then turned to follow that one. Occasional robots passed us in the hall: yellow ones, blue ones, gray ones; short, squat floorsweepers brushing by on broom-feet; inspector-robots with rows of eyes circling tubular bodies at top and bottom, minutely checking the flooring and plaster; strange-shaped repair robots like the one I'd seen before, with wrenches or screwdrivers or cutting tools for hands; and quite a few with such a variety of peculiar extensors, sense-organs, manipulators and other paraphernalia that I had no idea what they were for. The second corridor was about a city block long. My robot guide took me to the end of that and turned right again. Another long hall lay ahead, no different from the two we'd already passed. "Just how much further are we going?" I asked, catching up with the long-limbed robot and striding beside it. "Please follow me," it said without turning its head. A suspicion came to me. "Say, did you know your left arm has fallen off?" I asked. "Please follow me," it said, not pausing tc look. "Your head is coming unscrewed!" I said more urgently. "Please follow me," it said. There hadn't even been the soft clicking that the receptionist had made when switching to its programmed response. Either this one had nothing else to say, or I hadn't hit the right verbal button. I kept following for awhile, my annoyance growing as my feet got tired. I'm not a peripatetic man. W e came to the end of this third corridor and turned right. The robot guide kept going as impassiveIP ly as ever, and down at the end of the hall I saw a door which looked suspiciously like the one I'd come in by. I stopped. "Now just a damn minute!" I said. "You've taken me around in a circle!" "Please follow me." "The hell I will! I'm leaving!" That did it. Whirr, clickclick went the robot. "This is the room," it said, striding to the nearest door and opening it for me. I stood still for a moment, looking past my guide-robot into the room. It was a fairly small cubicle, about a third the size of my own office, with no rug and no windows. There was just a green leather swivel chair in the middle of the room, and facing it was a large robot which seemed to be all head, and that head all one eye. The head with the eye turned slowly to gaze at me. I don't know exactly what I'd been expecting at the end of the trail. What kind of appointment would a man make and then forget? Dentist? Analyst? Tax consultant? Well, whatever I'd had in mind, it had involved a human, not a one-eyed robot. But I was here now, and curiosity is a great motivating force when you have time on your hands. I stepped into the room. The guide-robot shut the door behind me, and I heard a faint click -- not the whirr-clickclick kind they made in sorting their programs, but a locking kind of click. I turned quickly and grabbed the door handle. "Please sit down," said a voice from the air around me. The door was locked. "Please sit down," said the voice. I looked around the room, searching for another exit, knowing there wouldn't be any. Now, too late, it finally occurred to me that I was an important man in the Western Bloc's defense industry, and that the whole thing about me making an appointment and then forgetting it was more than just curious -- it was damned fishy. And here I was. "Please sit down." I looked wearily at the big robot in front of the chair. It didn't seem to have any threatening protuberances; indeed, it was more or less shapeless except for that head with the huge eye. Cautiously, I sat in the leather swivel chair facing it. Immediately the robot's eye started spinning. I realized suddenly that the iris was marked with spiral lines, and now that the eye was spinning it seemed like a whirlpool, a vortex of. light which had instantly caught the focus of my gaze and was trying to pull me down, down and into the dark pupil at the center. Down, down... "Down, down, down," I heard a voice saying, slowly and monotonously. "Down..." I blinked and sat up from my partially slumped position in the chair. "Like hell," I said. "Sleep," said the voice. "You must sleep. Sleep, sleep. Down into sleep..." "No," I said, and looked away from the eye. The voice stopped; there was a long, echoless silence in the room. The lights dimmed into darkness. Then I heard two soft robot-clicks, and the voice said, "You are now asleep." "No, I'm not," I said. "You will remain asleep for exactly one hour," said the voice, "and then you will awaken and leave this building and go to your home. You will not remember having been here; you will think you have been to a movie theater. You will throw away the note with our telephone number and also the page from your desk calendar containing this address, which you have in your shirt pocket." My chair swiveled gently to face a blank wall, where a picture sprang into being: it was the opening credits of an African movie with subtitles. "You will open your eyes and watch the motion picture," said the voice, and then the soundtrack cut in over the hidden loudspeaker. Ill I stood up and made my way to the door. If they thought I was asleep, maybe they'd have unlocked the door. If so, maybe I could get out and away -- I wasn't far from the exit door at the end of the hall. I tried the doorknob, but it was unlocked. Holding my breath, I eased it open. The guide-robot was right outside, blocking the doorway, staring blankly at me with its red bee-eyes. The robot gave a rapid, Geigerlike clicking and said, "You are awake." I tried to shove past, but the robot stretched its long steel arms out across the doorway and held me back. I ducked and tried to go under the arms, but there wasn't enough room -- the robot was advancing into the doorway. It kept up that rapid clicking and sputtering. "You are awake. Go back into the room. Go back into the room." I had no choice; I was forced back. The robot stepped back outside again, and once more it shut the door. This time the click of the lock wasn't faint. Behind me the movie soundtrack groaned to a stop, and the lights came back on. The loudspeakervoice said, "You are awake. This is very unusual." "I was always a lousy subject for hypnotism. But I kept my eyes away from the Cyclopean robot just the same. "You'd better let me out of here. I left word at my office where I was going. If I turn up where to look." "You left no word at your office," said the voice. "That was checked, of course. We are always efficient." "But you seem to have messed up this time," I pointed out. "Yes. Very unusual. I am coming to see you," said the voice, and almost simultaneously I heard the lock behind me turn, and the door opened. A small robot rolled through the door, which shut and locked behind it. Its head was about two feet in diameter, and it seemed to run on IF roller-skate wheels. Three black buttons, apparently eyes, were arranged in a triangle near the top of its face, and four small arms no more than five inches long extended from the sides, ending in tiny hands with articulated fingers. The head and body were all one metal globe; it looked like a confused beach ball, especially with its round red speakergrille, like a mouth gaping open. "That's you?" I said unbelievinglyHis voice (the robot's appearance was so unprepossessing that I immediately thought of it as "he") sounded a trifle hurt as he said, "Yes, I am me -- first official in charge of Madison Avenue Bailiwick Four. I happen to be a very complicated machine, programmed for self-determination of actions and with a vocabulary of # words, English language # Track Fourteen. Microminiaturization and our make all this possible." "Who the hell is we?" I asked, turning to follow him as he rolled past me into the center of the room. He rolled to a stop in front of the swivel chair, and with one of his pencil-thin arms motioned me to sit. I couldn't see any reason not to, so I did. #XJow then," he said, and his round body-head seemed to lean back on its roller-skate base. "We can get down to business. I admire a man who can get down to business. No shilly-shallying, no beating for birds in the bush. Right?" He waved a hand before I could open my mouth. "Don't bother to answer; I know you agree. Were you to answer, it would only waste valuable time. And we are in the process of getting down to business, are we not?" "I hope so," I said. "Good. Good." He waved his arms again. "Very good indeed. Now then -- you ask, 'Who is weT A very good question. It strikes to the heart. That is, it is incisive, trenchant, acute, penetrating. Yes?" "I thought so," I muttered. "Ah!" he said. "Ah-ah-ah-ah-ahah! That is my simulation of a human laugh -- very good, I believe. I laugh because you employ irony upon my statement, a peculiarly human communication form. I am able through the sophistication of my analysis-patterns to detect and respond to this." "Terrific," I said. "Ah! Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah ! Now then, I will tell you who we are. Though, to be frank, you may not believe me at first. I am aware of the unfortunate limitations which even humans had in # Track Fourteen. Listen carefully and with an open mind, then: We are robots." He stopped, peering at me with his triangle of button-eyes and clicking faintly inside. "I believe you," I said. "Yes? You do? Or do I detect irony? Aa-ah?" "No," I told him. "I do believe you. You look like a robot, you know." "Ah," he said. "Yes. An accurate observation, accurate indeed." "Thanks," I said sourly. "Now that that's settled, how about telling me where you're from? What do you want? And why the hell did you get me here and try to hypnotize me?" He nodded, and since his head was also his body the gesture came out looking like a bow. A tin beach ball with old-world charm, I thought. Oh boy. "Again you ask questions which are to the tip," he said approvingly. "Let me then be forthright, since I admire forthrightness. Wastes no time. Where are we from? Yes, excellent questioning, but not quite accurate. Rather, when are we from? You see the distinction -- when rather than where? Yes, I see you nod. Good. All right, then: We are from the future." "From the future," I said. He cocked his head, leaning sideways on his roller-skate base as he peered beadily at me. "Ah-ah?" he asked. "Not quite," I said. "Don't worry about that -- just go on with your story." "Ah, yes. Well, we are from the future. Or rather, from a future. Our base is #, Track Seven. That is, Time Track Seven. You are familiar with the idea of infinitely branching time tracks?" "Somewhat. That's the theory that at any moment in history there are an infinite number of possible futures, depending on small decisions, random factors and so on. Each possible future is a different, uh, time track." "Quite yes. You understand well IF -- that is with precision -- the theory. And you will understand me when I say that this theory is absolutely correct, though now dated. There were once an infinite number of time tracks, but now there are only fifty-eight of them." "What does that mean?" H e hesitated, then gave his little nod-bow. "I see I must explain at greater extension. At one time -- subjectively speaking -- there were indeed a limitless number of histories for humanity, an infinity of them branching from each moment in time. Very messy. But we would not have changed this except that in so many of these alternate tracks mankind came to harm. Wars, plagues, ecological imbalances, natural disasters of worldwide scope, and many ceteras . As robots we could not allow this, you see, so once we had developed time travel we began our work to improve things. We have so far eliminated -- " He paused, then did rapid calculations on the first two fingers of his left hand. "We have so far dred and sixty-seven thousand, seven hundred and two worldwide pestilences. Also -- " more fingercounting " -- eight hundred and twenty-six wars which substantially destroyed mankind. Or perhaps the figure is sixteen hundred and fiftytwo. But you see what I mean, at any speed." I abruptly realized that I was staring at him. I cleared my throat self-tconsciously and said. "You mean you're really from the future? And you and all these other robots are... uh, fixing up history?" "Indeed yes. It is necessary for the good of mankind, which is of course our prime directive; we cannot allow men to be harmed, or even to harm themselves." The robot emitted a gust of air which sounded peculiarly like a sigh. "It was comparatively easy before we discovered time travel; but once the past was open to us we owned no choice, but to accept the additional responsibility. So we have launched our great campaign to restructure all histories. And we are now approaching a degree of success, since in all of the fifty-eight remaining tracks we have kept mankind alive up through the year #. We are of course continually working to extend that date as well as to improve the quality of the tracks. The more humans alive on a given track the better it is, you see." "Wait a minute, wait a minute," I said. A chill was creeping up the back of my neck. "You say you've kept us alive up through this year. What about next year? Are we dead then? Is that why you're here now?" For several long seconds the robot sat silently, his only sound that faint clicking inside, like a computer muttering to itself. Then he said, "I cannot tell you about the future of your particular track, since our hypnotreaitment has had no effect on know -- our technique is very efficient, very refined, very complicated. It is not merely hypnotism, but a combination of that with acoustics, room temperature, the psych-index which we recorded while you were in the reception room -- " "Yes, what about that?" I broke in. "Why did you keep me waiting there? Why did you give me the runaround in that hallway till I finally threatened to walk out on you?" IV A gain the robot was silent, its triangle of button-eyes staring impassively at me. Finally he said, "Our only need is to detain you until #:# tonight. If we can keep you waiting of your own unfastened will for part of that time, it saves expenditure of staff resources in power and time. You can understand that, with fifty-eight tracks to guard and restructure, every bit of energy we save can be important. The time you spent in the reception room and hallway saved us the electricity and machinedepreciation which we would otherwise have had to use in showing you a travelogue of New Tasmania. Multiply  that saving by fifty-eight tracks, and consider that on each track we have between twelve offices engaged in this work, and -- " "Yes, I see. And this is why you planted a note in my wallet with your phone number on it? To cause me to come out under my own power?" "Very good. I like a man who can keep up with me. Humans have remarkable mind-systems, but they are usually not as efficient as those IF which all robots have. You understand that robots have to be, if you Will absolve the expression, superhumanly efficient, in order to cope with the capacious number of variables which we face in our work with the tracks. Why, my own computational unit, portable as it is, is so complex that even  do not understand -- " "But the questions is," I said, "how did you know I'd find that note today? How did you know I'd call you?" "We checked it by time-observance, of course. Without the necessity of actually introducing a material body into a time-point, we save much power, so it is practical to search alternate tracks and tributaries for the most well-ominous circumstances, then take advantage of them. We could just as easily influence a subject by causing him to get a wrong party when he punches a telephone number, or by stirring a wind which would blow his hat down a certain street, or -- " ways, I'm sure," I said. sand, four hundred and eighteen other ways, to be minute. We are in the position of what you would call a Monday morning flecker, you see." I frowned. "Monday morning quarterback, you mean?" "Quarterback, yes indeed. Analogous to the flecker of a hightman game on Track Sixteen. My apologies -- even the fantastically complex and efficient microcircuits of my mind unit occasionally slip down. As I say, even I can't always tell just how my mind is able to keep beside all the variables; they are not only supernumerous, but also subtle. For specimen, we can cause a negative administrative decision by seeing that many little things go wrong that morning for the official involved -- shirt collars too heavily starched, cold shaving lather in the dispenser, dictaphone cartridge lost, and so onward. Or we can tar the way for the success of delicate negotiations by opposite methods -- " "Enough of that! What concerns me right now is why you wanted to see me in the first place. I know my job is important, and we've just finished a big job for Hemispheric Defense, but I hope that doesn't mean... Well, you said mankind was only safe up through this year. I hope I'm not a contributor to some global war which you're trying to prevent." The robot said, "I can tell you nothing of the future of your own track, as you know." I sighed. "Yes, I know. But I think I get the message, anyway. If that's the case, then you can count on my full cooperation. I don't want to destroy the world any more than you want me to." "Very natural," he said. "Of course no human actually wants to destroy the world, whether it is Premier Yaroslav or your own President Robinson." "Fletcher," I said. "Robinson lost the run-off election, remember?" "Ah, certainly. Robinson is Track Fifteen. But you see my point, in any situation: no one wants to destroy the human race, but human relationships are such that the danger of Wiar is always present. Only by the fastidious surveillance of robots can disasters natural and unnatural be avoided... and even then the tracks are so complicated that we have our mistakes." He paused, a slight humming sound still coming from his speaker-grille. "We are still trying to tinker with an improperly programmed computation concerning events on this track in a place named Sarajevo," he said at length. "Oh -- the Archduke Ferdinand's assassination. You haven't been able to prevent that?" T he robot clicked loudly, sounding agitated. "We... made what you would call a miscalculation. The Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was a pivotal figure in a minor, but bloody war in Eastern Europe which we determined to eliminate from the tracks. We devoted a superb deal of effort to influencing an inept attempt on the Archduke's life, which would cause his government to adopt a slightly different policy... and then one of our diurnal dataanalyses reported that all the tracks branching forth by that time led to the death of both the Archduke and his wife -- " I was thunderstruck as the meaning of the robot's words came through to me. "You mean... you actually caused that assassination? It wouldn't have happened otherwise?" "Ah... no. Nor would the European war have spread so far. It is one of our errors which we would like to forget if we were human, bbt since we are robots with fantastically infallible memories which amaie even us, we must remember it and continue to work on that entire area of history. Since the initial error was our own, we cannot restructure it, but by working in those areas not touched by our earlier work we have already managed to keep Venezuela, Switzerland and Tahiti out of the war." "Incredible," I said. The robot dipped forward again, and this time I was sure it was intended as a bow, not a nod. "Thank you. We exist to serve you, as you know. All of our far-thrown resources are used for the benefit of humankind, and we never cease in our efforts. For another specific, we are not yet satisfied with our results at Pompeii, and our efforts to prod the Chicago fire department of #I into developing more efficient methods have left a blight on six adjoining tracks. Then there is the unstressing matter of the Spider Invasion of Central America..." "The whatV "When the spiders mutated as a result of our experiment and overran El Salvador, Honduras, Guatamala and most of Yucatan," he explained. "Surely you remember. Or have we kept that from spreading to this track?" "I hope so," I said. "Thank you, if so." He missed the irony this time. "You are welcome," he said formally. "We continue to labor unacquittingly in the muddy fields of time, improving each track and wherever IP ossible feeding substandard tracks ack into better ones. We have actually cut the number of tracks down to forty-seven, you know "I thought you said fifty-eight." I heard something like the grinding of gears within the robot while he again made binary calculations on two fingers. "Yes, you are right," he said. "I have the bulkiest admiration for a man whose memory can match and surpass that of a robot, as yours have done. Of course, my statement was not the kind of error you may have supposed, since at one point we actually did have the number of Tracks reduced to forty-seven, but we have had a few setbacks recently." I listened to this statemtnt, as I had listened to him for some time now, with something bordering on incredulity. That this robot and all the others I had seen were machines out of the future who had come back to improve mankind's history was hard enough to believe, but it made sense in a crazy kind of way. Machines with the overriding directives to serve and protect humans would certainly have to set out on this course if time travel ever became possible; but that they should be so inept at it, so bumbling and foolish, was appalling. "Aren't you getting any help at all from the humans of your time?" I asked him. "They made you; they gave you your directives; surely they oversee matters and coordinate your organization!" "But how could they?" the robot asked. "Humans no longer give orders to robots; ruling and decisionmaking is difficultiful and hazardous work which we have taken off the heads of humans. Should a human make an incorrect decision and cause something like the Spider Invasion, he would be ridden by so much guilty that he would be mentally sick. We robots, with our astoundingly logical brain-circuitry, have no guilty, so we can shoulder the risk of making such catastrophic errors. Thus the humans of our base track turned over all administrations to us by the year # I , and we have kept them completely safe ever since." I felt a chill climbing up the back of my neck, hair by hair. "What do you mean, completely safe?" "Precisely that. We allow humans to do whatever they want, so long as it in no way puts them in danger. We oversee their diets, habits, personality relationships and sexy lives so that they will not starve, grow fat, get cholesterol, hernias, guilties or other mental disorientations. It is all very scientific -- " "But that's tyrannyl" I burst out. "Dictatorship! Welfare-stateism! Big Brotherism!" "Yes," said the robot approvingly. "I am glad you can see how logical. Eventually, of course, when we have achieved or perfect aim, we will have segued all sixty tracks into each other, so that by #I there will only be the one track on which the robots are voted into administration. Then everything will be simple and safe." "Fifty-eight tracks, not sixty," I reminded him with a bit of malice. # A... no. Unfortunately, news which I receive unstintingly through my communication circuit informs me that we have slipped back to sixty again. But we shall make it up. We continue to labor acquittingly in the muddy field of time, improving each -- " "You said that once already," I told him. "Turn that tape off and tell me one simple thing: Did you get me here to help avoid a catastrophe or to further your little scheme for taking over the world? What would I have done if I hadn't come here?" The robot waved his tiny metal hands vaguely. "But you know I cannot tell you of the future of your track. And anyway," he added, "it is all the same thing: anything which would prevent humans from following the track to robot leadership would be a catastrophe." "Maybe from where you're sitting, but not according to me," I said firmly. I stood up. u I'm not staying here with you one minute longer; I've still got over half an hour left of the time you were trying to keep me here incommunicado. Maybe I can still find out what I was supposed to be doing -- " "Eh-eh-eh-eh-eh-eh!" he said. "That is my simulated laugh -- very like your Peter Lorre, yes? Surely you did not imagine that an organization so efficient and powerous as ours would take a chance on your getting away that easily. I like you, Mr. Barrow, and I regret having to do this. Look there!" He pointed over my left shoulder, and involuntarily I glanced in that direction. It was the Cyclopean robot again, its eye whirling faster now than it had that first time I'd faced it. I felt my attention focusing on that whirlpool as though drown by a physical force. I fought it, trying to close my eyes, to shake my head, to look away... but I couldn't. I felt myself being drawn deeper and deeper into the maelstrom of that eye, while from somewhere came a voice saying: "Down, down, down... You are falling into the eye, into sleep. Down, down..." "It won't work," I gasped. "Not on me!" "Ah, but it will," said the beachball robot; and he was right, for I felt myself sinking back into my chair, my eyes beginning to close. "While I have occupied you with this little chat my assistants have taken the opportunity to record a fuller psych-index on you, and now..." But I heard no more of his voice. As I slipped inexorably into darkness all I could hear was the voice echoing inside my head: "Sleep, sleep, sleep... " V r ie next thing I knew I was wandering out on the street, and it was almost seven o'clock. I remembered seeing the last half of an African movie which hadn't made much sense -- something about ennui and corruption among the younger Tribal Council members and weird-looking robots scurrying here and there and a statuesque six-foot Negro girl bathing drunkenly in a fountain in Johannesburg and someIF thing else about a huge whirling eye... It was all a jumble in my mindI made my way home in a daze and hardly exchanged two words with Betty when she got home from her meeting. But the next day, when I went in to the office, the morning sun streaming through my office window threw into relief something on my calendar pad. With an odd itch at the back of my mind, I picked up the pad and looked more closely. It was a note I'd written about the appointment; my pen had made faint indentations in the next sheet down. As I looked at them I knew dimly that they were somehow important; frowning, I took a pencil and rubbed it over the sheet. All I could make out was: Appt ad Rm # :#. But it was enough to kick my frozen memory back into action. Eventually, after spending the whole morning staring at a blank wall and coaxing, nagging my brain to shake out those cobweb-memories, it all came back. The robots hadn't been as efficient as they'd thought, even on the second try. I remembered the whole sequence of events... except that I couldn't remember the address, and I couldn't remember the phone number. (Which is why the number I gave earlier aren't the real ones.) I spent several days prowling up and down Madison Avenue, looking for the building I remembered, but none of them looked just right. I thought of calling the police into believe my story, and I'd only end up in a psycho ward somewhere, or at the very least lose my security clearance. And I gradually came to doubt my own memories. But every time I'm ready to shrug and forget the whole thing, write it off as a dream or hallucination, I read the headlines in the papers, and they cure me. It's incredible, the things that go on in the world in the supposedly enlightened year #; they're just like the things that have been going on all through history. They're crazy. And when I read the papers I remember those robots clicking and humming and bumbling behind the scenes and that mechanical receptionist's definition of a robot: "Robot, noun: An automatic apparatus or device that performs functions ordinarily ascribed to human beings or operates with what appears to be almost human intelligence" Some of the news stories that catch my eye don't rate very big headlines, though. Buried back in the second section for the past several days, for instance, there harte been brief items about some peculiar disturbances in El Salvador. It seems the natives are spreading stories about giant spiders coming into their villages, marching in ranks two abreast and frightening their women      IF  Feature The first "nationwide" clubs -- and how they have grownl The Urge to Organize fiction club" and says that it published the first real fan magazine. dim and just about prehistoric The Scienceers days of the early #'s fandom got started. From the very first, fans This club was organized in New were possessed by the desire to orYork City. Its first president was ganize and form clubs. Local homea Negro fan named James Fitzgertown groups first, then regional or aid. The club met in his home in state societies, and then came the Harlem for awhile. But this was idea for giant, nation-wide, all-fansomething more than just a local encompassing superclubs. fan club: a branch of the ScienWith one possible exception, ceers was established in Brooklyn; which I will deal with in its place, a second in the Bronx; yet another none of these national organizawas formed in Clearwater, Florida, tions ever worked for very long. One There were attempts to get branches of the very first ever was called launched in the town of Temple, being about #; in his book The but these didn't get off the launchImmortal Storm: A History of ing pad. Science Fiction Fandom (Atlanta This attempt to create something Science Fiction Organization Press, that stretched from New York to #), Sam Moskowitz calls the Florida, Texas and Oklahoma, clearScienceers "the first true sciencely places the Scienceers beyond the classification of the local, state or even regional fan organization: it was an early attempt at a nationwide club. Unfortunately, one which fell through, but a good beginning. Then in # came something spite the imposing title, this group operated out of a rural town in Alabama called Oakman. It seems to have had considerable trouble getting organized in such nebulous hinterlands, for investigation proved the Guild had only one member. This chap, Wilson Shepard, published a four-page hectographed bulletin which was, incidentally, the first use of the hectograph in fannish history (according to Moskomore members after awhile, and eventually -- # -- got rolling. The first thing it did was to change its name. The Terrestrial Fantascience Guild With an even more imposing title It was not a Tegular club with officers, a constitution and the whole shtick, but a sort of "voluntary union of science-fiction lovers" among whose aims was to instigate a campaign against back-number magazine dealers who charged unholy prices. This Cause was suggested by the Guild's most prominent member, Donald A. Wollheim, and I believe the Guild's blacklist actually squeezed one dealer into reducing his prices to a more realistic level. After a year or two, the Guild petered out, leaving behind its official organ still going strong. This came under Wollheim's editorship, changed its name to The Phantagraph and started publishing stories, verse and essays by Henry Kuttner, Clark Ashton Smith, Robert E. Howard (the creator of "Conan the Cimmerian") and H. P. Lovecraft, among others. It was still going strong long after the parent organization had totally ceased activity. Around the same time, there were abortive, short-lived, would-be national organizations springing up all over the fanscape like weeds. For example, out in San Francisco, Norman Caldwell and Forrest J Ackerdid anything about it besides thinking up the name. Around #, Massachusetts fan Hayward S. Kiractivity to get past the planning stage was to produce one issue of the official organ, The Fantasy Fiction Digest , which came out bearing the date of September #, #, whereupon the entire League succumbed to procrastination. And same time, publishing a club magazine called The Tesseract , dated March #. This one appealed to younger, newer fans (among them some chaps destined to make quite a name for themselves later an, such as James Blish). Chapters of fornia and eventually were farflung all the way east to Philadelphia, and there were even Canadian members. It also faded after a year or so and went into the doldrums. The Science Fiction League But one such attempt at a nationwide club actually made it. This fame, conceived either by sfs grandad, Hugo Gernsback, or by his employee, Charles D. Hornig, then editor of Wonder Stories (accounts League was first announced in the May # issue of Wonder , and the very first member (and founder of the Brooklyn chapter, the very first chapter of the League) was a chap named George Gordon Clark. There were certificates of membership and lapel buttons and club stationery and a board of directors made up of distinguished science-fiction authors and Forrest J Ackerman, and everything . Gemsback was Executive Secretary, and Hornig assistant secretary. Even though it was patently obvious the League was a gimmick designed principally to build readership and boost circulation in Wonder Stories , Gernsback blandly made utopian pronouncements, claiming the League existed as "a non-commercial membership organization for the furtherance and betterment of the art of science fiction." Charters were issued to local chapters, which were formed whereever three or more members could get together. The first chapter, as I have said, was in Brooklyn; ## was in Lewiston and ## in Erie, Penna.; and others popped up by the carload: Los Angeles (later to continue life as the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society, one of the oldest, biggest, most active clubs ever, and still going strong), Philadelphia, Newark, N.J., Denver, Colo., Chicago, Lincoln, #., Monticello, N.Y., and so on -- and on -- not to mention overseas chapters, of which the first was in Leeds, England. The remarkable success of the Science Fiction League was due in part to the fact that it was spon # sored by a science-fiction prozine. Wonder ran a League column in every issue, listing new members' names and addresses and reporting on local chapter news and meetings, etc. When membership hit the astounding total of # it seemed simply incredible; yet, later, total membership was to reach several thousand; but, actually, statistics aside, most of these people never did anything at all in fandom after simply sending in their names to be published. Sponsorship by a prozine was the factor wherein lay both the strength and the weakness of the League, and this weakness led to its eventual collapse. For, dissatisfied with the centralized and total control of Gernsback and Hornig, local chapters began splitting off. First the groups in New York, Brooklyn, Denver, Albany, Nassau, then plenty of others. Many of the tiny #-member "on paper only" chapters didn't really meet or even exist. Then came the Deluge... In the middle of #, Wonder IF Stories went under, and the rights to the title were sold to another publishing group headed by Ned Pines and Leo Margulies. Although Margulies promised to continue the League, there was a considerable hiatus between the last Gemsback Wonder and the first Margulies issue, and in this shaky interim many other clubs split away. During the editorial change-over the links between the mass of local chapters and the central headquarters -- always tenuous even in the best of times -- snapped completely, and the national structure entirely collapsed. The Phantasy Legion, and Others Thus Gemsback lost control over the Science Fiction League, and although many of the larger and more important chapters, such as Los Angeles and Chicago, retained ' their nominal allegiance to the parent organization, most of the rest went their own way, or into limbo. When the League was revived, as Wonder Stories , new members continued to be enrolled and new chapters to be formed, but it was all on paper. The national fan organization was gone; life had departed vote more room to boosting the contents of forthcoming issues than to trying to breathe some life into the defunct structure. Towards the end of #, David A. Kyle, who had been head of the League's Monticello, N.Y., chapter, organ called Legion Parade was announced; life memberships in the Legion were for sale at #c; fanzines were encouraged to join the Legion's affiliated publishers guild, which would thus knit the fabric of American fandom together into a a unit. There was immediate support offered by leading fans of the day, such as Don Wollheim, for one of the nicest and strongest things about Kyle's Legion was its democratic autocratic in nature, with Gemsback in office for life, the Phantasy Legion was absolutely democratic and not under the thumb of any autocrat, even its founder, David Kyle. Dramatic proof of this was forthcoming in the first election, when the members voted somebody else into the presidency, leaving Kyle merely vice-prexy! After a brisk and promising start, the club marked time. Then, with Kyle no longer at the helm, the Legion faded into obscurity. Although the Science Fiction League revived for a sort of halfover, the main impetus had passed to the individual chapters while the national group never did much, as Margulies lacked the interest Gemsback and Hornig had shared in the League. One such chapter was the Queens Science Fiction League, which became an active and thriving center for East Coast fandom. Attendance at the monthly meetings soared to # or more people, among them such celebrities as Willy Ley, Eric Frank Russell, John W. Campbell, Jr., Jack Williamson and others. Some chapters of the great League were still operating under official League auspices as late as #, long after the League had become but a ghost, devoid of activity or identity. The East New York chapter split off, and one of its splinters attempted to take the lead and reorganize fandom into a national unit have exhausted itself just coining the name, for nothing more was ever heard of it. a project initiated in #, which received only lukewarm support and # by Don Wollheim. (The Futurians, by the way, were a vigorous, influential fan group of the period, centered in New York, and boasting members such as Wollheim, Fred Pohl, Cyril M. Kornbluth, David A. Kyle, Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Lowndes and others later to become science-fiction professionals). None of these post-League Leagues ever got going. Like the Phantasy Legion, they had a board of directors, an emblem, an official club magazine and just about everything -- except members. Despite its wholly commercial nature, Gernsback's Science Fiction League was a successful enterprise. Sam Moskowitz says it was more beneficial and more important to science-fiction fandom than any club before or after it. Next month, your man In Fandom will discuss a national club that started with a bang and went noand one, that started slow and easy, but is actually the most successful national organization of them all, Two Complete Short Novels by Keith Laumer by Hayden Howard Also stories and features by top science-fiction writers: -- and many others! April Issue of Galaxy on sale now -- get your copy today! IF IF  Novelette The Youth Addicts He had conquered space ; now he faced a deadlier voyage -- into the depths of a woman's mind! I W e stood on the ship-landing and looked out over the crowd which had come to meet the ship. Wives, girl-friends, families. Hell, I didn't expect anybody, so I helped Clay look for his wife. I knew her voice, her face. He'd shown me the three-dee cube of her giving an earnest little farewell speech: slate-colored hair, almondshaped eyes and a nose like some eight-year-old kid. You know how cute they are when the nose hasn't formed yet. Later it comes out like a potato, or else it's got a hook oa it. Well, Leeba's had stayed in that cute stage. She had clothes on. (Nine-tenths of these mementocubes don't. Many's the pack of personal effects I've put together, and the cube of the dead guy's wife would make an engine-room wiper blush.) But even with clothes, you could see that Leeba's shape was right up there with the upper one per cent, and all the time that she was saying, Good-by, Clay , I love her eyes had been looking out of the cube and making my hair prickle. I could tell that if she liked a guy she'd play patty-cake with all the stops out. "I don't get it," said Clay, looking around like some bewildered young Charles Lindberg. "I sent her a 'gram." "She answer?" "No." Seven years. The kid didn't realize? I made the motions of looking out over the crowd, but I was thinking: Too bad, Clay, you're unique along with about three out of five other guys who do the long haul in out-space and come back cuddling your nest-egg, only to find that those sweet kissable lips have gone off nuzzling some other jack who lacks your manly attributes and youthful good looks, but nevertheless has the beauty of being here, while you're in the far-out, the black yonder, hawking up your lungs in a thoride mine, or sweating out your soul in a steaming micle plantation, or frosting your nose on some twilight world hunting fizzbuck furs. Well, there's # Vz ways to grub for the Company credit, jack, and I've done half of them during my three sevenyear tours. I 'd known Clay on Plegan's planet; he was one of a dozen young engineers who showed our machinery crews where to gouge thoride out of the guts of the world. I'd seen the kids go to pieces one by one: four carried off by disease, one killed in a fight, one got his wig twisted up and killed three workers before I finally had to blast him down. (That's what's behind the euphemism on my Galactic Minerals ID card: Field Personnel Supervisor.) I had # machinists, oilers and mechanics besides the engineers, and my qualifications boiled down to the fact that I was harder then they were. What the hell, I'd been raised with the sting of a nightstick on my bare feet every morning, so I know a little hammering won't hurt. The blaster's different, but sometimes it's the only way to bring order into a camp nearest space-patrol boat. Men minus woman substitute violence for sex. (Try to get GM to send out a platoon of pleasure-girls, no dice. We've got a bluenose on the board of directors.) Anyway, the other five engineers got fat and cynical, and three of them started wearing flowers in their hair. That left Clay, still the brightfaced young engineer who'd made the trip out. I got friendly with him on the trip home, and he regaled me with photos of his house, his wife and his plans to set up in business as a consultant, then start filling the house with little carbon copies of himself and Leeba. I'd identified with Leeba because we both came from Scrag -- unlovely name for a cold, unlovely world. Clay had skimmed off the cream of the crop, because Leeba's great grand-dad had been one of the first colonists on the planet. He and a half-dozen others had stamped their brand on the whole world, and later IF immigrants had to work for them. It excited me to think of Leeba, coming from the rich but still halfbarbarian nobility of Scrag, and tying up with Clay, who came from the poor-but-ancient nobility of the Centauri worlds. Clay was polite and soft-spoken but had a will of steel. Set him on a track, and he quietly persevered through mud sleet hail blood sweat tears and spit. She was a willow, blown about by her emotions. (I saw that in the threedee cube, a banked fire just about to flare up. I had to quit looking at it, because it cut into my sleep at night, thinking of her all alone on acter Clay was to leave her for seven years! They don't figure it out, these kids. At twenty they think youth is forever. They hit twenty-eight, thirty, and one morning it's like a wind off the ice. Getting old. Time running out. Women it hits harder than men. Run out and grab the first guy they see. Reproduce. Carry on the race. Never mind the excuse, make it With a Scraggin like Leeba, you oould multiply it ten times. I asked him: "Why the hell did you leave her on Earth?" This was after we'd been in space for three months. He shrugged. "She wouldn't go back to Scrag. Some social stigma involved." Stigma? More like total ostracism. On Scrag you followed your man wherever he went, and if he died so did you -- or you went into a special home for widows. On Scrag, an unmarried female of breeding age was an outcast, a female pariah. "How old was she?" I asked. "Well, we were married that spring before I left. She was nineteen. We just had time for a short honeymoon before I shipped -- " "She get pregnant?" "Uh, we decided to wait until I got back." "She decided?" "No, I told her I didn't want a child to be seven years old before I saw him. She... finally agreed I was right." I felt like hitting him over the head. So damn placidly sure that his old austere, maiden-aunt culture was Right, and all others were quaint, curious offshoots! 'Listen, Clay, I'll tell you how it is on Scrag. In winter nothing happens. All is frozen, so cold that steel breaks like glass. People stay in the domes, and they're in a kind of slow-down too. But when the ice melts, that's summer. The plants crack open the soil and shoot up; in a week the whole planet's a bubbling, crawling mass of growing things. They've only got two months until the first frost, see -- and that's when those enormous Scraggin families get started. Nobody counts anything. There's complete sexual license. All females from sixteen to thirty get pregnant. That's the culture your wife grew up in." "But she came to Earth when she was sixteen." "You think that would break the pattern?" "Why... I don't know. But Leeha never acted . He blushed a little. "In fact, when. I met her at the university she was totally uninterested in the, uh, physical aspects of our relationship." "You met her in winter?" "Why... yes." "How'd she act when spring came?" "A little forward sometimes, but... oh, let's forget it, Bork. Do you mind?" I didn't mind, but the closer we got to Earth the more he talked about her. He showed me a picture she'd sent him after he'd been gone two years. Clay said she'd gained some weight, but I could see the marks that a Scrag summer puts on a woman: lips full and sensuous, breasts swollen into an almost obscene lushness, hips broader and legs heavier... all was ready for the implantation of the child she would bear. But there was no child. God, her appetites must be tearing her apart. She'd worn her hair in a twisting roll down in front of her left shoulder. On Scrag it means that a woman has no man and is receptive. I dkta't tell Clay this. I just said: "WeU, if I met a gal like this. I'd do my damnedest to pull her out of the VMuting game." Ho gave his polite, aristocratic smile. I could see my battered puss in the mirror of his eyes: broken nose, knife scar splitting my right cheek in two, cropped blue-black hair stippled with gray, cauliflowered left ear, and I knew what he figured: Bork's a nice crusty ole hog, but Leeba could never... "Oh, no. Probably not But what he didn't understand was that when a Scraggin woman is in the middle of her summer estrogen cycle, she'll grab what's available. H e showed me her letters too. The first ones were full of the normal slop a young wife would write her faraway lover, but after three years they started getting remote, as though she were writing to her second cousin because her mother told her to. When I mentioned it to Clay he smiled. "Leeba can't write without getting formal, Bork. It means nothing." Maybe not. But I noticed that her handwriting steadily deteriorated, until it became a scrawl like a kid just learning to write. I made no sense of that, nor of some things she said: Everybody seems so old, here . Even your letters, Clay And also:  think of Scrag all the time. I must go back there when you get home. Estrogens calling her home? Man, I didn't know. At first she'd written about the house they'd bought before Clay left, describing each room and what she'd put in it... especially the bedroom. So I told Clay about the summer outings on Scrag, when each girl makes a bower to share with the boy she's chosen for the night. The girls talked about the bowers as Leeba did her bedroom. Clay laughed. "That's the way Leeba is, absolutely involved in what she does. She never holds back." IF But later she didn't mention the house. She took a job, and I could see her trying to keep busy, get her mind off her unfulfilled appetite. Clay didn't see it that way: "She wanted to help save money. I wrote her that I didn't want my wife working, so she quit." "What's she doing now?" "I don't know. She... quit writing a year ago. I assume she knew I'd be back soon, so she's saving it up to tell me in person." I'd finally given up trying to hammer it into his thick aristocratic skull. He hadn't been listening most of the time anyway, just nodding his head out of sheer well-bred politeness. I'd just hoped I wouldn't be around when he learned the truth. II B ut... here we were at the spaceport, and no Leeba. We divided the crowd into segments and surveyed every likely female face. Gradually the throng dwindled, until finally we were alone except for the baggage-robots. "Maybe the 'gram was garbled," said Clay. "She might've misunderstood the date. I'll call her." I shoved out my hand and said, "I'll see you," but he waved it off. "Stay, I want you to come home with me and meet her. You know her almost as well as I do now." Nervous about meeting her, that's why he wanted me along. I watched him slide into a visor-booth, then I walked away. Cruel thing to do, I'll admit it. But let me tell you, the way to be totally indifferent to another guy's trouble is to have bigger trouble of your own. I walked to the spaceport medical building, and went through an opaque glass door which read: Specialist in Non-Terran Diseases Pinwit was one of those guys who looks like he chose his name to fit his physique: short and round, with a tuft of gray hair sticking up like a shaving brush in the back of his bald skull. He wasted no time; I guess he was used to dealing with outspacers. Told me to sit down and asked how I felt. "Food doesn't have any flavor," I said. "I'm sleepy most of the time, and sometimes when people talk to me it sounds like they're in the next room." He made his mouth into an O and tapped his pencil on the desk. "When did you notice this?" "About four months ago on the ship." He got up and started pulling down the shades. "Ever been exposed to Silver Syncope?" I felt my stomach go queasy. Sure, I knew all about Silver Syncope; I'd read all I could find on the subject in the ship's library. But still, I'd hoped. You know how it is when you read about a disease; you start checking yourself over and every one of your symptoms tallies. They called it Silver Syncope because you shine in ultraviolet light. That's because your sweat glands exude the waste products of the disease. What the hell, you can bathe every day and take care of that. The problem is in the synapses, those little sensitive plates that transfer nerve impulses. They get coated with the stuff; fewer and fewer impulses get through. It's like dying of curare poisoning, except that death takes several months. "I spent five years on a planet called Benny rob. They had an outbreak six months after I left. But that was eight years ago. It wouldn't be dormant that long -- would it?" "There are cases of twenty-year dormancy. Stand over here." I stood on a platform, and he switched on his UV light. I could see the glow I cast on the wall: blue-green, like bread mold. Pinwit shut off the UV and turned on the overhead light. "I'll run some more tests if you like -- " "Tell me what you think." "You've got it." I gave a grunt which didn't quite escape from my throat. "Is there a cure yet?" "No." At least he didn't give me any funny jazz about not starting any continued stories. "How long have I got?" "Depends. How old are you?" "Thirty-six." "You look older." "I've done three seven-year tours in outspaoe." "Hmm. You started young. Fifteen. Well..." He looked at the ceiling. "Roughly, I'd give you two months." "Two months!" "I'm afraid there's no way to exIF tend it. There are homes, however, where you'd be comfortable. You have any money?" X shrugged. "Seven years' pay with completion bonus. Investments I've made from other years, some good, some lousy. You could say I'm wealthy, if it's money you're talking about." Two months, then Bork Craighen wraps it up. I walked out of the office feeling like I'd been hit on the head with a rock maul. I felt a total numbness, and it would take a while to learn which part hurt worst. I walked into a bar called the Venus Trap and ordered a Spaceman's Sling. I tossed down two and was staring at the third trying to find a silver lining to this vast black cloud... Here I was, rich and free. I was going to die, but what the hell -- I'd known that since I was a kid. Be happy you've got two months' warning. Live high and go out in a burst of pleasure... But then I frowned at the drink. I knew it was cold, I'd felt it sliding down my throat. But it hadn't meant anything. The sensation was secondhand, like reading about coldness. The full irony of Silver Syncope hit me. You can't feel, you can't taste, you can't enjoy. It's all a bit numb, and it would get worse every day. I understood now why some victims were locked up toward the end. Seeking sensation, any kind of sensation, they often went in for drugs, violence, rape, murder -- nothing reached them, but they tried like hell to make contact, any kind of contact, anything to break out of that cocoon of non-feeding, of -- "Want some company?" S he was a Venus-colonial with bluesilver hair and indigo skin. An outspacer's dream. Lush pneumatic chick with curves and hollows all in the right places, but roughly double what the average Earth-broad has. Her violet eyes took me to bed with her, and her heart-shaped hooker's badge said: Ym Mela. I love you. I pulled out a roll and threw it on the table. "Get us a couple more drinks. No, a whole bottle. We'll make it a long party." She ordered, then sat down and slid inside my arm. I knew her skin was warm and soft and faintly damp, because I'd had Venus-colonials before. Well, I felt her too -- in the back of my mind, even in my fingers, but there was that invisible film of non-contact. Ah, the hell with it. "You shipping soon, or...?" "I've got all the time you've got, Mela." Two months, what a dirty trick. Just when I was beginning to hammer my life into a decent shape. It was after midnight when I looked up and saw Clay standing there, wearing a dumb-striken expression. I assumed he'd found out the cold truth about women, you can't leave 'em for seven years and... but I didn't care. I just said, kind of fuzzy. "You find her?" He nodded bleakly. I figured, well, she's found herself another guy, and what can Clay do? I'd give him the Venusian chick. We'd already been to her room, and it had gone okay -- okay, after seven womanless years. Get that! What I mean is that I wasn't really there. It was like watching a movie of thyself. So I except that she was totally in love with me. Venus-colonials are like that, which is why they made good bar girls. So I said: "Sidd own. Mela, get a friend for my friend." "No, Bork. Really. I'll just sit here." He slid across the booth and sat with a puzzled expression; it looked like it had been pasted there since I'd left him at the spaceport. Then Mela got up and went into the back, and Clay leaned over and said in a tone of well-bred apology: "I don't want to interrupt anything, but I need your help." I almost laughed. I mean, ' what the hell did his trouble's matter when you're carrying a load like mine? But I saw no point in unloading on Clay; there's enough hate and confusion in the universe without me muddying up the water even more. I just sat and looked at him. He made me think of a sheepdog caught in a trap, big brown eyes saying: help, help, help. "You were right, Bork," he said. "I shouldn't have left her here. But I didn't understand what she was going through. I wanted to get a good start in life, and -- oh, damn. If it isn't too late -- Bork, will you help me?" I saw us charging into a love nest, me beating up some guy while Clay dragged his bride out the back way. Well, it was just something to do. "Okay. Where are they?" "They -- oh, you mean Leeba?" "Leeba, yes. You said you found her. What about the guy?" "Bork, if there only was another guy, I wouldn't need your help. But she's going to die, if we can't figure out something..." Ill H e told me what had happened: he'd called home and gotten no answer. He'd gone to the house, and it hadn't been lived in for months. His space gram was unopened, his letters still sealed. Neighbors told him she'd often come home staggering; they thought she'd been drinking. Once they'd found her sitting on the lawn, crying for her daddy and mommy. She'd thought she was back on Scrag... "She'd sold the aircar, the furniture, her clothes, everything. The house was bare." He looked down at his hands. "I'd been sending my pay to Leeba. She was going to spend only what she needed to live on and bank the rest, but..." "She didn't?" "Oh, she did. But over a year ago she started making big withdrawals. She closed out the account two months ago." "Seven years' pay gone?" "I've still got my completion bonus. But that's it." "Over fifty gees? Where'd she spend it?" "In a place called Harry's Happy Return." "A bar?" IF "An illegal memorigraf parlor. That's where I found her." I felt a letdown. "Then what's the problem? She started tripping back into her past while you were gone. Now you're back. So kiss her and tell her all is forgiven." "I could, but she wouldn't feel it. She's in a memorigraf coma." So there was the problem. He'd taken her to two psychs, and they'd both told him the same thing. Once they went into the coma stage, there was no way to bring them out. They died in a coma, usually within a month or so. "I finally found a psych who'd just set up his little practice. He's got an idea he wants to try. That's why I need your help, Bork." I tried to find out what he wanted me to do, but he said the psych could explain it better. So a halfhour later I stood in Bruce Pepke's third-floor back room clinic looking down at Leeba, seeing her in the flesh for the first time, but -- So cold, so pale. They'd put a lacy gown on her which didn't interfere with my vision. Not a lush body now; thin and hollow-cheeked. They must have fed her through the vein, because I saw blue marks on her thin arm. She looked around thirty-five, but I knew she was only twentysix... too young to stop her life short and start rolling it backward. "How long has she been lile that?" Bruce was standing beside me in his white jacket. "I understand she's been comatose for over three weeks. Prior to that..." He shrugged. "I checked around and got her history of memorigraf addiction. She started four years ago, using a government-licensed parlor. Two years ago she switched to a clandestine parlor. So many do, since they want more than the legal limit of one hour per month. Leeba's visits grew more and more frequent, until finally she signed into the place full time. Most people can't afford a constant memory trip, otherwise these comas would be more common. Leeba could -- and here she is." I looked at her face and forgot my own problem. Her eyelids were bluetranslucent, like skim milk. I saw eye-movements behind them. "What's going on inside her head?" "She's there... in her past. Living it mentally at the rate of a week per hour." "I thought they had to be hooked up to a recording of their memory." "Not when they're in a coma. The memory circuits go on and on and on, until death. At least that's the theory. Nobody's ever revived from a coma, so we're not sure what happens inside the mind." I looked at him. "You think you can bring her out?" "Maybe... with your help." "What do I have to do?" He started talking, and I kept thinking: This guy could be a nut, Bork. What do you know about the brain, or memory? Nothing. Briefly, his idea was to make a recording of my brain pattern and play it into her memory. That way, he thought I'd have an independent existence which was not controlled by her mind. In other words, she'd project me in real, three-dimensional terms and fit me into the memory-world of her own past. "Is that possible, for a mind to contain two people? Won't it -- crack?" "I doubt it," said Bruce. "Many people carry more than one personality inside their heads. The ego is only a product of the mind anyway. It has no objective reality." I looked at Clay. "Why don't you go in?" "I'd have no freedom of action. I was in her life, and my role is laid out. I couldn't break out of it. It has to be someone she's never known." "But you grew up on Scrag, Bork. That's where she is. You'll be familiar with her environment." I had to laugh at that. "She was an aristocrat and I was a spaceport rat. We might as well have been a galaxy apart." "Then put it this way. The other guys -- they might forget. Or mess around, play little games inside her head. You're the only one I trust, Bork." T rust, I thought. He knew nothing of the disease which had riddled my moral framework. I gave him a sour loojc:. "You're handing me a helluva responsibility." "I know." "I ought to beat you head in for leaving her. I figured she'd just grab another man, but this..." I shook my head. "You should have left her pregnant, anyway." He nodded soberly. "I know. Beat my head in if you want. I'm putting all I've got into this. If I could bring her out by pushing a peanut up main street while wearing a striped loincloth, I'd do it. She's... all I've got." And all I had were two more months. I could live out the time, but I wasn't really interested. Too much like throwing good time after bad. Might as well try to salvage Clay's little princess. But I had no idea what Bruce expected me to do once I got inside her head. It turned out that he didn't either. "It's never been tried," he said. "My theory is that if you make her past so damnably unpleasant she can't stand it, she'll come out of her own free will." "How?" "That's something you'll have to decide when you get there. However, it would seem to me that -- " he coughed " -- one way would be to kill her." Clay turned white, but I went behind his words and got his meaning. "You mean, make her think she's dying?" He nodded. "And to escape death, she'll snap out of her coma." I thought about it. "I'm not a killer." Clay said, "I've seen you kill, Bork." "Sure, out in the camp. But they were berserkers -- men at that. This..." I looked at Leeba's slender throat, her thin nostrils moving oh so slowly, the chest rising and falling, lifting the two small breasts... IP "I can't do it. No, I just can't." "You'd be saving her life," said Clay. "You couldn't really harm her physically," said Bruce. "You'd be a projection of her mind and nothing more." "Bang-utot," I said. "Huh?" They both blinked at me. "There's a planet out near Fomalhaut where the natives die by nightmare. They dream they're dying, so they die . How do you know she won't?" Bruce looked gravely at Clay. "It's a possibility." "She's dying now, for God's sake! What can we lose?" He looked at me. "Bork, I'm begging you!" "No, don't beg. I'll try. But it's just not my nature to kill beautiful women." "No problem there," said Bruce. "I'll put you under hypnosis. It'll be an automatic command, a compulsion. You won't know why you're doing it, you'll just feel you have to." So... there was a sleepy drug which turned the world into twilight. When I woke up, Bruce made some tests and said I was hypnotized. I didn't feel any different, but he told me I was programmed to kill. Then he put a domed helmet on my head, and it was like falling into a hive of bees. Bzzz-bzzz-bzzzz... IH I have ego-identity, a concept of . But who am I? Slowly the ego grows flesh, like pearl-stuff growing on a grain of sand. Nerves sprout from the soil of the ego-concept. Heart, lungs, kidneys, liver... blood vessels flare in a net of red. My chest is thick, my telly long and flat, my arms and legs lithe and strong. I pulse with energy. I am a man-child. Nine-ten years old. Inside a... Large room. I see a vaulted ceiling with portholed lenses condensing the rays of a pale red sun. Babypink light drifts down like layers of cotton candy. I know that outside lies the world of Scrag: snow, ice and cold which burns the flesh and turns steel into brittle glass. I know more than a ten-year-old boy should know -- about the lighting principle of the dome, about other worlds. I remember seeing stars grow into suns, planets coalescing into seas and continents, becoming trees, grass and cities... I hear music, a swirl of pipes and the keening of a flute. The children are dancing: twenty girls, nine boys and one adult female. A teacher, or chaperone. I can sense her thoughts: boredom, anticipation of food, legweariness and tingles of sex-pleasure behind the knees. Many girls dance together, because of the shortage of boys. The boys dance reluctantly, feeling their awkwardness. I am aware of them, but they are not aware of me. Ah... now I see why. I sit against the curved wall of the dome, behind a rubbery-leaf ed vine which grows from a pot of purple soil. One of the girls is aware of me. A lovely girl... I think. Slatecolored hair whirls about her head like dark taffy stirred by a spoon, then spirals loosely down her back. Her skin is white, but shadowed by a dark undercoating. A blue skirt bells out from her waist and doesn't quite cover her buttocks. The rest of her is sheathed in a leotard so sheer that I see its blueness only in the inner curve of her elbows and knees. The slim torso is unadorned by breasts, but her almond eyes glitter with a blatant female hunger. I feel an age-link with her which has no relation to the immaturity of our bodies. Her bee-stung lips pout in my direction. She frowns, and I feel it in my body. No! More than that. She saw me, and I took form. I look down. I wear a dun-colored leotard and a sequined girdle which passes between my legs like a breechclout. I walk toward her. Movement is like liquid flowing. I am wax being poured into a mold. I want to run and jump; my awkwardness is nothing compared to the energy surging through me. My senses are needle-sharp; the mingled cachet of thirty young bodies flows around me, tainted by the odor of machineoil and plastic. She sees me coming and draws away from her partner. He frowns at me and walks away. I am no surprise to him, despite the smallness of the group. I must be known here. She raises her arms, and I fit myself to her. We are two, then one. Her hair against my cheek has the dry slickness of moth wings. She IF radiates a smell of warm milk and honey. Two turns around the floor, and I sense her thought: He dances... as, so smoothly. Then: Maybe he knows the Anpela. The word strikes my brain, and the knowledge of the intricate dance flows into my muscles. I do the steps, and a light glows behind her eyes. "What's your name?" I asked her. She laughed. "Silly. You know." Leeba. I pulled it out of her mind, together with all she'd ever done and been, a tangled knot of memories that burst inside my skull: Leeba Knight-Namburi. Eight years of life -- love, peace, happiness, each day a jewel strung on the thread of her existence. "Leeba," I said. "What's my name?" Her off-white cheeks dimpled. "Everybody knows their own name." Bork. I don't know where it came from, but it sounded correct -- except that Bork had issued from a nightclub strip-singer, fathered by a one-eyed spacer on the Sol-Arcturus run. Bork didn't belong with aristocrats. He had a box under the Space City dome, where he lived on scraps from restaurant kitchens. He led spacemen to drink and to wander and then plundered their pockets of what remained, but -- Great God of the Rift! Thirty years had passed since my rodentbeginning on Scrag. S till, here I was, a man in a boy's body, nursing a grownup purpose quite apart from the dance. Why was I here? I searched my mind. Leeba meanwhile behaved like a woman. Her satin cheek pressed mine; her warm breath tickled my throat. The hard angularity of her little-girl body pressed me in strange, adult ways. My body ached to merge with hers. I loved her as a man loves a woman. For an instant the straight cylinder of her chest became a dual softness pillowed against me. Her long waist became shorter, its narrowness accented by the swell of her hips. Her slim legs acquired a curvature of thigh and calf, a smoothness of flesh sheathing knee and ankle. Her eyes hooked into mine, and I felt the hunger of her empty womb. Surprise exploded in my brain: She knows who  am, clever girl. She's hiding, too . The trigger tripped, and my purpose burst like a nova inside my head: The impulse seared my brain. I felt an urge to vomit on the pearly plastic floor. I set my teeth and reached into the pouch at my belt I drew out a six-inch needle tipped with the purple stain of glacwin venom, extracted during summer from a small flying reptile which secreted the poison in two glands beside its beak. Glacwin would give her an instant of agony, then death. The music stopped. She turned her back to me and looked around the room, almost as though she were offering the chance I needed. But something else came first. She has to know. "Leeba," I said, "you can't stay here." She turned her eyes on me, and my mind fizzed into chaos. Sequence was shattered into a horrible fragmentation of space-time-matter fluttering down like tom confetti. Her eyes were the only reality; they reflected a slender blue-eyed kid in dun-colored leotards. It was the only identity around, so I grabbed it. "You're talented," I said. She wrinkled her nose. "You mean the dance?" "Huh-uh. That... jangly stuff, broken mirrors flying around." She raised her brows. "Broken mirror? Where?" I had to try it again. "You can't stay here, Leeba." She frowned. "You mean... on the dance floor?" "Not the dance. Scrag. At this time. It isn't yours." I felt a taut shimmer in the air. The niirror rippled, bent and nearly shattered -- but not quite. "Are you sure you know what you're talking about?" she asked. W as I? Why was I here, knowing nothing of myself but a sordid scrap of youth and the tatters of a vagrant's life? And my purpose -- to kill -- curdled my soul. I am not my own man. Whose am I? Yours, Leeba? "You can dance with me again if you like." That's it, Leeba. Under the music, do the deed. It's for her own good... isn't it? I took her in my arms, holding the needle between my fingers with its point outward. I could feel her heart pulsing against her ribs. I held her tight and swung hef around, rehearsing the movement which would end her life. The quick reversal of the needle, the plunge... But she had to know. Had to. "Ready, Leeba?" "Ready?" "To come back with me. It won't hurt." Her eyes knew, but her little-girl face puckered in puzzlement "Why must I come back with you?" I grated my teeth and tried to remember. "Clay? Does that sound like a reason?" "A kind of dirt? How could that be a reason?!' "Not dirt. A man -- I think. Don't you know?" She shook her head. "I don't know anyone named Clay." Could I be Clay? No, Clay was... something else. Cleanness, honesty, two pleading brown eyes below a vagrant forelock. I was Bork, and I had to... had to... Her eyes hooked out my thought. "You don't have to," she said. "Stay here with me. It's the best time." I sent energy pulsing down my arm. My waist moved, the needle turned. I braced my mind for the shuddering convulsion of her death, then -- I was lying on a bed, amid hospital smells. Oh, Leeba, you were right, it was the best time, those years on Scrag. Lovely youthworld, now it's gone, and I He on a white sheet afflicted by an incurable deadly illness. " -- Lousy goddam trick!" "Now, Bork!" IF "Watch him carefully, Doc!" "Look out, he's gonna smash -- !" I felt the bite of a needle, then my muscles turned to oatmeal. When I woke up they had me wrapped up in a canvas kimono. I couldn't move, so I lay there cataloguing my surroundings: Steelite cot, white walls about the size of a third officer's cabin. A man in a doctor's suit sat at a table marking charts; against the wall was a metal cabinet equipped with dials. Beside it rested a dome-shaped helmet from which protruded a heavy, coated cable. "Doc," I grunted. "You the doc?" He got up and came over, smoothing his mustache with his forefinger. "I'm a psychiatrist, yes. Bruce Pepke." His voice sounded like he was speaking through a long hollow tube. He bent over the straps, his face set in that bland medical mask which says there's nothing at all to worry about. That made me nervous -- but he sprung me from the strait jacket and gave me a cigarette, which as far as I knew qualified him as the best friend I had in the world. "Well, Bork, can you tell me what happened?" "I was back on Scrag -- " I stopped. "Or was that a dream?" "Did it seem like a dream?" Psychiatrists never answer questions, they just pile on new ones. "It seemed real," I said. "Realer than this, anyway." He nodded. "That's the effect of the memorigraf." "What's a memorigraf? Maybe that's a dream too." "The memorigraf -- you don't remember that?" "I'm cleaned out. Doc. Just a few scraps of memory left." "Hmm. She's got a stronger mind than I thought." He crossed Ins legs and eased the crease of his white pants. "Suppose you tell me what happened, and let me evaluate it. Wait, I'U get Clay." IV H e came back with a guy around twenty-seven whose face was puffy from sleep. The circles around his eyes showed that he hadn't slept well for several days. He greeted me like an old friend, but I had a nagging sense of remoteness, as though nothing were really happening. "Doc says you contacted Leeba, Bork. How was she?" "She was..." I frowned at him. "Who the hell are you?" He drew back and looked at the doc, who spoke in that confidential way people have around invalids, as though you're a dog or a servant and can't understand English: "He's got a touch of amnesia, Clay. Nothing serious." "Clay?" I said. "I mentioned you to her. Why?" "I'm Leeba's husband." "You pick 'em young." "Young? I don't -- " "Let me handle this, Clay." The doc leaned forward. "You're Bork Craighen, field personnel supervisor for Galactic Minerals. Here's your ID card. Remember?" I squinted at the plastic rectangle, embossed with the curlicued crest of GM. It looked familiar. So did the battered puss in the photo. The psych wiped off a little mirror on his pants and held it to my face. They matched. "Okay," I said. "That's the face I'm wearing now. But a couple of hours ago, or how the hell ever you measure time in this featherwig factory, I was a blue-eyed blond kid in a ballroom. A real silver-spoon specimen in a dancing suit. Which is real?" "You found Leeba in a ballroom?" asked Clay. "What -- " "Let's not go too fast," said the doc. "Did you try to bring her back?" "I tried to shoot her full of poison, yes." I shrugged. "She kicked me out. I don't know how, though." "It was her nind, after all. We simply tried to insert your ego into it, and she rejected it. That's all." "Let's try again, Bruce," said Clay. "While she's fresh." The doc frowned. "That wouldn't apply. Clay. We can't be sure she's following a normal time sequence back there. She could be skipping around, glossing over unpleasant memories, drawing out the pleasant ones. However..." He reached for the helmet. "Now wait," I said. "Just hold on. I'm not going anywhere until I get these holes in my memory filled up. First, what's that funny hat?" "It's part of a memorigraf unit. We recorded your memory before you went in. Now we'll simply replay your recent past, and you'll relive it all as it happened." I hesitated, then nodded. The doc stabbed me with his needle, and the world started spinning. I barely felt the hat come over my head, buzz... buzz... buzz... and gradually it slowed down. W e were standing on the shiplanding and looking for Clay's wife. She wasn't there, as I'd expected, so I left Clay and went to a specialist in ET diseases. He gave me two months to get myself ready for the Big Blastoff, so I went to a bar and tried to console myself with a big, loving Venus-colonial chick. Then Clay stumbled in and said his bride had turned youth-addict and gone into a coma. I was the not-sohandsome, not-so-young prince who was supposed to bring her out of her deadly sleep, so... I looked up into the faces of Bruce and Clay. I shook my head to clear it. "This could drive me nuts," I said. "It isn't memory. I was there, for the first time. I can see how Leeba got lost in it. Now, exactly when are we?" "You went into Leeba's head -- " began Clay. "Then you came out with amnesia. So we put the hat on you to fill in your memory. That was a couple of minutes ago. Now you're just coming out of that one." I pieced it together in my mind until I had it straight: Leeba, the little girl in the ballroom, the poisoned needle, the lithe lad in leotards... "That kid," I said. "I was never like that. I even talked educated -- BO IF which I'm not. I've just read a lot." "That was Leeba's projection of you," said Bruce. "She had your personality in her mind, so she created her own image to go with it. No doubt it was highly idealized." "Yeah," I said, remembering how I'd felt: my senses sharp and vivid and... young. My own youth had been miserable, and the only way I'd survived it was by having nothing to compare it with. But youth in Leeba's world was wealth, good looks, a skill at dancing and conversation and -- she'd give me that too -- proficiency in the art of love. I ached to go back into her mind, for a week, a month, a year. As long as I could. It didn't matter. But I couldn't let them know how eager I was. "Maybe that's how she could kick me out," I said. "She had control and I didn't." Bruce frowned. "I don't know." "Maybe if I was conscious, but still hooked into her memory -- " "It's never been done. You might go crazy. Or die." I felt like laughing. "Doc, that really doesn't matter, believe me. But listen -- no hypnotic kill order. Otherwise I don't make the trip." "I can wipe out the command," he said. "But then, how will you bring her back?" "I've got an idea," I said. "You'll have to let me work it out on my own. It has to do with the... hell, I can't explain it. You trust me, or you don't." "I trust you, Bork," said Clay. I smiled at him. If he only knew... "All right," said Bruce. "I suppose you'll want to rest first, eat, wait another day..." Another day of numbness? "No, Doc. There's just one thing, Clay, if I die -- " "You won't." "I might. Just bury the old shell and forget it. It isn't important. Remember that. Don't give it a thought." He agreed, but he didn't understand. I wrote out a paper leaving my fortune to Leeba and Clay, Mr. and Mrs. Fortescue, and had the doc sign it and certify that I was in my right mind. While he was doing that, I boosted his scalpel and hid it up my sleeve. Then he injected me with scopolamine, and I started drifting into the twilight zone. He put the domed hat on me and another hat on Leeba, who lay in a cot beside mine, then hooked our heads together with wires. I t was like a slow blending of two worlds, with one picture coming in and the other fading out. I could see Doc and Clay looking at me, while behind them on the white walls appeared a grove of trees in the Scrag countryside. It was so vivid seemed covered with dust and then faded out entirely. I smelled the lushness of growing plants, the humus of the forest: I felt strange emotions: I was a bud about to flower, a butterfly laying eggs, a cow swollen with milk, a bee whirling in the mad frenzy of the mating swarm IF Spring on Scrag. The frenzied time, the surge of life after the long freeze! I was Leeba. No, I was myself, inside her head. I saw through her eyes and felt with her emotions. The shape of her body enveloped me, the weight of breasts on my chest, the heaviness of hip and thigh. We sit in a grove, Leeba and I. Giant trees arch four hundred feet overhead, their massive trunks a rust-red color, like crinkled metal. The sunlight filters down through the yellow leaves and falls on thick blue-green grass. A blue-scaled lizard flaps his red leathery wings and flies over the clearing with his long yellow crest flowing out behind him. Other boys and girls lie about the clearing, some dressed in leaves and skirts of grass, some wearing nothing at all. I sensed a calmness in Leeba's mind, also a pleasant fatigue. All day she has worked in the forest to build her bower: set the green saplings so they would arch over, then tied them together and laid the matted gelo vines on top. She has spread the floor with a soft puka moss and laid a carpet of blossoms at the entrance; hung scented herbs from the roof and buried the aphrodisiac root of the bakaka beneath the threshold. Tonight after the mating dance, she will lead a young man across the threshold. She wonders who he will be, but feels no anxiety because the outing will last three weeks and the first night is not binding. If she doesn't fall in love with him, she will choose another, and then another, until she finds a husband. Those who fail to mate during the coming-of-age tour will probably never mate. Another reason she feels no anxiety is that she knows all her would-be suitors; they are boys she grew up with, boys of her own social class. So she digs her bare toes in the grass and waits for the sun to go down; the roots are cool and love is a warm syrup flowing through her loins... I push my thought into her consciousness: Remember me, Leeba? At the dance, eight years ago? Her memory spins back, the years like windows in a lighted train rushing past. Ah, there I am, the blond, blue-eyed, graceful lad in leotards. Now the clock runs forward; my shoulders broaden, my legs grow thick and muscular, my cheeks are touched with golden down. I stand behind her, a teasing smile around my mouth, with yellow hair lying on my shoulders.  "Look at me, Leeba." She turns, and her brain crawls with revulsion. My smile twists into a leer, the twinkling blue eyes glow red, demonic. My teeth become pointed, yellow-stained, my hands curve into claws, my body warps into a grotesque hunched horror... "Is this how you remember me, Leeba?" Her lips trembled. "The... last time you had a needle." "Not this time, I promise." She wet her lower lip with her tongue. I saw perspiration dampen her shoulders, and' I felt the icy knot of fear in her stomach. "Go away, please! Just go away." I tried to bring back die shape of the young man, but I was dissolving like soap foam, flaking away like a peeling coat of paint. The bird-noises in the clearing grew faint and far away, and I thought, I must take control before she kicks me out again. V T he sun was lower. Time had passed. I was the youth again. Grotesquerie was gone. I felt a lusty sense of power. I stood alone in the clearing, wearing a loincloth of woven bark. Where were the others? Oh yes, now I heard the splashing and laughing. I walked toward the sounds, feeling the long muscles slide in my legs, and I drew the air like wine into my lungs. The pool was clear as crystal, its surface like shattered mirrors reflecting the trees overhead. I looked past die young people splashing in the water, and I saw Leeba, lying on a rock and watching a flowerlike animal which clungto a tree and rolled out a long sticky tongue to catch flying insects. I walked toward her. The green of the rocks and the sun filtering through the leaves tinted her flesh a lemon-yellow. I looked down at her nude body and felt a surge of maleness. I laughed. She sat up. Her eyes stared, her mouth opened to scream. I felt something in my hand. I looked down and saw a long curved dagger glittering in the sun. I concentrated, and the dagger became a silver flower. I knelt and held it out to her. "I told you it wouldn't be like the last time, Leeba." She searched my eyes; I saw tiny beads of perspiration trapped in the down of her upper lip. "What is it... this time?" "You can't -- can you?" "If you help me, I can." "Why should I help you?" "Because... you want me." I leaned toward her, and her eyes grew large. They were the color of caramel flaked with gold. I smelled the warm salt-tang of sun on flesh and --  -- walked along a sidewalk while an icy wind sliced across a barren landscape. A dome rose up in the center of a vast paved court. A girl walked ahead of me huddled in a parka, cradling her books in her arm. I also wore a parka, and fur-lined boots. They clumped as I ran toward her. A dry stick whipped across the sidewalk as I came up beside her, drawing the air into my lungs like icicles. "May I carry your books, Leeba?" She turned, her pale oval face peering out of the blue-furred hood. She was about twelve years old. With a flash of her teeth she threw the books at me and ran. I laughed, then I gathered up the books and started inside -- I nside a warm room. It was full of furry stuffed animals. A little girl played with a blond, curly-haired boy-doll, rocking it in a cradle, pursing her lollypop lips as she crooned. IF "Leeba, come out of it," I said with my six-year-old voice. I wore shiny shoes and velvet pants, and my hair hung in blond curls to my shoulders. "Go away. I didn't invite you." I took the doll out of the cradle and tore off its head. "I'm the one you want, Leeba." Her face screwed up. "Momma! Nurse!" I jabbed a finger into her ribs. "Don't cry, Leeba," I said, tickling her. "Laugh, Leeba. Laugh, Leeba, Leeba leebaleebaleeba -- " We fell down together, laughing and twisting and rolling on the floor --  -- In the forest. She lay on her stomach with other girls in a circle, talking. I plucked out a blade of grass and brushed it across the pink sole of her foot. Her toes curled, and she looked back over her shoulder. "I'm always with you," I said and --  -- We stood on the stage of an auditorium decorated with paper spaceships and stars. She was perhaps fourteen, reciting a poem about the founding of the colony on Scrag. I walked up behind her and pulled her pigtail. She whirled, her face set in anger. "Let's go back to the summer, Leeba." "You... can't you stay away?" "Not when you keep remembering me. So let's go back -- " -- In the forest, the young people sat eating, looking into the campfire. I walked up behind her. "Mind if I sit beside you?" She answered, looking into the fire. "There are other spaces. Other, girls." "Not for me, Leeba." I put my hand on her shoulder and started to caress her... I stood outside a circle of about thirty boys. One boy was beating a drum in the center, another played a flute. A yellow-haired girl stood inside the circle, facing the line of boys who marched around in time to the music. She wore a dirndl-like costume and a blindfold. The beat of the music speeded up; the boys danced faster. I saw Leeba waiting with the other girls on the opposite side of the circle. Suddenly the music stopped. The drummer rose and took the blindfold off the yellow-haired girl. She blinked at the young man who'd stopped in front of her, then laughed and seized his hand. Together they ran into the forest. Another girl was pushed, giggling, into the center... a small girl with glossy black hair who kept giggling as they tied on her blindfold. She was paired with a dark, rawboned youth. Shyly, looking down at the ground, they walked out of the firelight. Two more girls, then Leeba. She looked wild and wanton. Gold rings gleamed in her ears, red boots came up to her calves and a spangled skirt reached only halfway to her knees. She raised her face for the blindfold, and her bosom swelled above the low blouse. She was the fairest of all, and the drum thumped louder than before, and the dancing boys devoured her with eyes glinting red in the firelight. I heard the music swell toward crescendo. I ran up and broke into the circle. There were angry shouts behind me, then the music stopped, and they took off her blindfold. She looked at me and spat one word: "You!" She whirled and ran, red boots on flashing white legs. I ran after her, bounding over the spongy turf and into the forest. Laughter followed me, along with girlish yelps and shouts of encouragement from the boys. She tripped on a tasseled boot and fell; I landed on top of her. She writhed and twisted, but I caught her waist between my knees and pinned her wrists to the ground. She stretched her neck and yelled: "Help! Help!" "They won't come, Leeba." She went limp and lay panting. "You cheated. You weren't in the dance when they blindfolded me. I looked." " You cheated. You're supposed to take me to your bower." "I won't." "All right. Seems a shame to waste it, but... I bent down, but the mirror warped, shimmered like a wet windowpane. "No, Leeba. Not another one of your backward trips. This is the best time, you told me that." "I hate you. I hate -- " I stopped her words with my lips -- and suddenly I knew what hooks the youth-addict. It wasn't memory of the first kiss, it was... the first touch of girl-flesh, the first crackling surge of electricity up my legs, the clutch of my lungs, the runaway thumping of my heart. It was the same for her. I heard the hiss of air through her nostrils, felt the heat of her face and the soft relaxation of her body. Her arms went hesitantly, then strongly around my back. After a moment I whispered hoarsely: "Where is your bower?" She rose and took my hand and led me silently through the forest. Stooping, she led me into the perfumed bower. I heard the soft creak of moss as she lay down, saw the dim glow of her body and the sheen of her golden earrings. A long time later she asked: "Who are you?" "Bork." "How did you get here?" I put my hand on her forehead. "You brought me, through here. I'm a friend of Clay, your husband." She sat up suddenly. "That hasn't happened yet." "For me it has." "You come from the future?" "Leeba, you know how it is. Don't you?" "I want you to tell me, Bork." VI #" told her about the memorigraf. X About my body and hers, lying side by side in the clinic on Earth, years away... "... But our brains are dying. Yours and mine. You have a month IF left, I have a little more. A month there. That's fourteen years here -- if you decide to stay." "Could you stay with me?" "For awhile. But eventually they'll unhook me. After a few hours, a day at the most. I'd be with you a few months, maybe a year, then I'd be gone." "But if I remembered you, and you existed in my memory -- " "Don't forget I'm still back there. It's my conscious will that keeps me going. Once they unhook me, I'm out of it. You couldn't keep the illusion going, now that you know it's an illusion." She was silent a long time, then she said. "Awhile ago... nothing happened, did it?" "Yes. It happened." "But not really. I couldn't have a baby." "Not a real baby, no." "But -- it was so perfect. So frighteningly real and so... nice ." "Why wouldn't it be? You made it, with your mind." "But didn't you have the same -- ?" "It was perfect for me too. I made it, with my mind." "I don't want it that way. Like a dream." "There's another dream. Maybe you'd like that better." "What is it?" "You know. The little house, Clay, your husband. He's tall, brown-eyed, honest, upright, faithful, devoted -- " "I don't want him. I want you." "All right." "You mean... you'd be with me, like we are now?" Here is music composed on computer and transducers, ranging from computer-played versions of Christmas carols and rounds to the complex sounds that offer a new dimension in musicology. Composers include Dr. John R. Pierce, Dr. M. V. Mathews, David Lewin, James Tenny, etc. # selections on a #inch, high-fidelity, long-playing record produced by Decca. A "must" for your record library and a conversation piece for all occasions. Priced # postpaid -- send in the coupon today. Galaxy Publishing Corp # #I Hudson Street New York City # Yes, send me my #-inch hi-fi record of Music from Mathematics right away. I enclose check or money order for #. City  State Zip Code... (Offer good in U. S. A. Only) "Like we are now, yes. that's right." "How?" "Just relax, Leeba. You're getting sleepy. Close your eyes and let your muscles flow. Trust me. I'll take care of you. I'll always be with you. You'll have Clay, but you'll have me too. "There'll be no more unhappiness. No more frustration. You'll have a child, too, you and Clay, but I'll be with you all the time. You'll be able to see me, but nobody else can. Well have to talk silently..." She slept. I visualized the little room, the bare clinic walls. I built up a picture of Clay and the psych sitting there; I saw the wires running from the helmet on my head to the head of Bork on the other cot. Slowly the picture formed, shimmered, and... jelled. I rose... Leeba's body rose from the cot. I had to work quickly. Her legs were weak, but I had the advantage of surprise. Clay only gaped at me and said: "Leeba!" The doc was starting out of his chair. I reached down and took the scalpel from the sleeve of Bork, and with one last look at the scarred face Fd worn for thirty-six years, slashed with all my strength beneath the stubbled chin. Blood gushed out over my arm, all over Leeba's filmy nightdress. Then the room started tilting, and I had my first horrible doubt. Did J figure it wrong? Everything went black and I thought:  was wrong about her, she kicked me out again and I'm dying... T hen I opened my eyes and looked up into Clay's pale, horrorstriken face. "Why, Leeba. Why?" he said... to me. I looked over and saw Bork lying in a pool of his own blood. He wasn't breathing. "It doesn't matter, Clay." "But -- Bork saved your life! And you cut his throat!" "Of course. But it doesn't matter. He was going to die anyway. Ask Doctor Pinwit. Didn't Bork tell you it didn't matter?" "Yes... yes he did, but -- " Then he gasped something about seven years being a long time, and I saw him bending down to kiss me. I gave a loud shout inside my head: Leeba , wake up. Sleepy-sounding voice. What happened? It worked. We're back. But you'll have to take over on this . I felt myself dwindling down. Then I was the young man of the forest again, standing beside the cot and looking down at Leeba, who was being kissed by Clay. She reached up and took my hand and squeezed it tight, and I thought, well, here's      IF IF  Novelette Nice prison! It was a Klein bottle in orbit -- easy to escape from, if you didn't mind turning inside out! I I was taping indiscretions at a morning reception in the Israeli Embassy when I saw Gallegher hiding behind two experts in nuclear desert reclamation. We exchanged glances and assembled at the bar, where I saw that he had a grotesque pattern of hairline scars cutting whitely into his rusty Martian tan. "Have you become a consul for some slowly developing nation too poor to afford real diplomats?" I asked. He laughed. "No, I'm a house guest here, sort of. Why don't you ask me about these scars?" "You look," I replied, "like a chicken thief who never heard of charged fences. Is that six-inch hexagonal grid all over you?" Gallegher drew himself as nearly erect as any tramp rocket jockey will (they don't like to be mistaken for space Navy men) and said, "These are the heroic scars of a conductor on the underground railroad." "On the what?" Just then I was swept away by a loud argument between two diplomats famed for the personal and political enmity, but Galeg shouted, "Lunch!" Over the second bottle of a sturdy Hock in the Embassy's great public dining hall, Gallegher leaned avay from the dead luncheon plates and told me about the chicken wire. T he girl (he said) was an Israeli; that is, a citizen of the Greater Near East Co-Prosperity Sphere. It was the summer after I broke my ankle testing that crazy Englishman's "space bicycle" -- you remember? It was going to make servicing the weather and communications satellites so easy? Well, I fell off Tiros Ten while it was in a north-south pass. I cratered in Central Canada, and the Toronto therapists sent me up north to the Arctic Ocean, so I could strengthen my ankle. I was staying at the Hilton T-#, on an ice island about a hundred and fifty miles from the geographic Pole, and hiking a random route over the pack ice every day. The up and down and sliding all were supposed to strengthen up my ankle ligaments. One day I saw a girl stalking a polar bear. We were both wearing parkas, and I thought she was an Eskimo. The bear had tolerated her, just waving its paw and growling every now and then, but it saw me and decided two human beings on its trail was one too many. It just slid over the edge of the ice and took off for open water -- or another ice island, I guess. Harriet turned and saw me then, and came bounding over the ice, waving her spear and shouting. "You're supposed to help! I would have shared. Now I've lost the sport and you've lost the meat, freeze you!" She saw the color of my skin just about the time I could see hers, and pulled up short. "Oh," she cried, "you couldn't be an eskimo, not with that pelt!" "No, sweetheart," I replied, "and that Mediterranean profile and black olive complexion of yours never came from Hudson's Bay, either. I'm sorry I spoiled your game." "Sorry all hagan! Every Earthman thinks he can make anything all right just by saying, 'I'm sorry. " That aerated my fuel a little. "As for that, I'm more Mars than Earthman," said I. "And a good day to you, ma'am, for the next two months of it." She sank the spear point in the ice with pique, and muttered to herself. "She-hagan... another iron man -- lost in space without a hot tube and a computer to bring him home." Then I knew who she was, from the newstapes. "So-ho, you're the little Yemenite sailor-girl who made a fool out of Space Admiral Rogossovsky?" She smiled a bit at that. "Oh, well, rockets can hardly deal with a craft like mine. A sun sailor moves with the organic forces of the universe... and besides, the light quanta pushes it so slowly a rocket is useless when it matches speed to the Sunbeam" IF "Is that the name of your tube?" "She's no tube. There's not even an auxiliary aboard. When I shove off from an asteroid and spin out Sunbeam's sail to the solar wind, I'm on my own." Her hood was thrown back now, and she smiled a real primitive grin, all over her face. "Tricky navigation?" I asked. "Oh well! You have to know how to do it. There's so much real estate in the Ring, though, that you can always make a landfall somewhere; unless you're fool enough to sail right up from the sun out of the Ring. Then you might broach to and let that old fireball blow you right up to Pluto." I t pleased me that she thought of that direction as "up." I've always felt myself it was "up" to Mars and "down" to Earth instead of "out" and "back." You don't need to know all we said after she realized I was an old space hand. By the time we tramped back into the village, we were old bear-hunt mates, and she set out to recruit me for her crusade. I wouldn't have believed her story, written out, but I couldn't disbelieve it when I was looking at her. She wore an anklet of those blue ceramic beads. After that first day, it might as well have been around my neck. You remember the public part of it. Harriet appeared on the vidcasts when she was discovered sailing a long, serene track well inside the orbit of Mars. Admiral Rogossovsky reacted like the clockwork bureaucrat he is and made a heroine out of her when she defied him and his whole Navy couldn't catch her. Between the public's chuckling and the professionals' pleased appraisal of her antiboarding devices, Tojo Rogossovsky lost every round. It was bad enough that every time one of those hot Navy tubes would damp the flame down enough to match velocities with Harriet's Sunbeam, she'd float one of those glass bottles with a firecracker in it over and blow the Navy's matching trajectory into a Riemann parallel; but when the Old Man ordered his greenjackets to get out of their pipes and use their zot-guns to capture Harriet, they wouldn't do it. Who wants a firecracker in a glass globe up against his faceplate? And it's an all-volunteer service anyway, so... I should have known there was something about a girl who could think up a device like that. But she was only five foot two, about a hundred and twenty pounds, raven-wing hair that she could sit on when it was undone, and a way of hanging on to my parka and looking up into my face that made me feel I was somebody special. She was somebody special, and her specialty was to subvert the economy of the Asteroids. Harriet was running an escape route for cyborgs. That's why the sailing trip. She had chased down that asteroid with the eccentric orbit that brings it inside the orbits of the inner planets, and left there a half-living machine that she had stolen. She was actually leaving the inner solar system when Admiral Rogossovsky and his radar techs picked her up. I see you're shocked by the idea of cyborgs. You know they're illegal down here and on Mars. Don't forget there's no law in the Asteroids. By law, the Ring has been left free to find its own economy. Just you remember this: anything that technology can do... at a profit... will be done, somewhere. II H arriet explained to me how it got started. First thing, they have a lot of freak accidents in the Ring. One of the freakish aspects is that an accident is often catastrophic but not fatal. What's to be done, then, with a basketful of viable organs, missing only eyes and limbs, say, to be a person? Down here where it happens so much more rarely, we bany the pieces and throw away the personality. When we use the replacement parts, we have to suppress immunity reactions and put up with the fact that the pieces are the wrong size and all that. But we've got people running out of our ears. We can afford to discard personalities. In the Ring, it's the other way 'round. They're few on people and many on machines; and a remnant really adapts better to nylon and platinum and stainless steel prosthesis than the individual organs do to being life-grafted onto somebody else. After the operations, you may have a somethingsomebody that's just right for riding a big chunk of ore round and round the Ring, operating the smelter by being wired right into it, and dropping a load straight "down" to Earth when the two orbits are right. That's were the Ring-wallahs make money: on the shipping. Costs are next to nothing. Gathering the stuff is expensive; and going up for a load after it falls into orbit around Earth costs money; but the low mass everywhere in the Ring makes shipping as cheap as vacuum. When the computer says, "Push," you can push a load with your hand or with one of those firecrackers -- Tojo Rogo cocktails, they call 'em? -- in the right direction, and that's all it takes. Now, you turn half or threequarters of the gathering over to a half-live machine that runs on a barrel of vitamins, a little greenhouse to recycle the oxygen and the wastes, and a yearly maintenance call to replace a few transistors and vacuum tubes, and hook the device into a "cyborg central" by radio, helio and teevee; and instead of a hole in the fuel tank, you've got a fuel breeder. Money's money, everywhere in the universe, even in enterprises that are theoretically cooperative, like a kibbutz. So you see what happened, don't you? In the blurred legal nowhere of the Ring, it ended up so that who paid for the surgical operations owned the hardware; and sad to say, Mrs. Stowe and Uncle Tom to the contrary notwithstanding, when you own a being's body, you also own itshis soul. IF And Harriet, poor Harriet, her clan hadn't even been moved out of Yemen until after the Greater Near East Co-Prosperity Sphere imploded from the war against the Pakistani Dictatorship. When she was thirteen years old, she was literally jetted a thousand years, from a prefeudal patriarchate into a bustling industrial nation. I t was all a little much for her, and when she was eighteen, she shipped over to a mining kibbutz in the Ring. The only person who kicked out to it with her was a boy from her clan. He was only fourteen or fifteen, so she was leader. Even in the kibbutz, though they cooperated cheerfully with its system of absorbing immigrants, the two of them constituted a kind of irreducible fraction. The kibbutz itself was breaking up under the pressure of the new economic conditions in the Asteroid Belt; every day a little less of a cooperative and a little more of a competitive enterprise. Then her friend got hurt. Oh, "Mordecai" was saved. "He" #, with bellows pumping and gauges registering, and three kinds of light receptors to see different bands of the spectrum; but not exactly adapted any more to wandering off to the shady side of a rock chunk and talking philosophy. drift of cinnabar with a hotel room full of auxiliary machines. Then he started reducing tihe ore to flasks of mercury isotopes. At that time, "Mordecai" could see and talk and had tracks on which he could move. However, it wasn't long until he got into an argument with the mine operator who owned his hardware. This man was a curious, cruel sort, well on his way to becoming the dominant force in the Ring. His methods were fast becoming any act by pointing to the competition. Harriet always called him "The Sheik," which ought to give you some idea of his attitudes toward people... and people machines. How can a machine feel cruelty, you ask. So did I. I hadn't stopped to think that these machines are sentient. The owner could switch one out of the television circuit, you see, for a mild punishment; or disconnect the light receptors, a little worse; or cut one out of the voice radio and restrict it to Morse. At the last, when the one rotter got really rotten, he would cut off everything except the restricted senses needed for the mine or the smelter. The cyborg would just drift in darkness for a year or more, working without knowing when or if anything else was going to happen, not able to ward off meteors or monitor the sunlight. The Sheik had lost the whole point, you see, and was indulging in cruelty for cruelty's sake. Originally, he promised incentives for more production or better shipping. He was going to go to color teevee for real producers. There was going to be rotation on the jobs, to break the monotony. A teevee band would IF be left free for experimental drama and dance by cyborgs. Typewriters would be added to die circuitry of any cyborg that came up with a usable suggestion. Oh, he talked a machine dream, for a while. None of these promises ever materialized, but he began to exact penalties of the milder kind: sight and sound. Fear followed... both ways. The more he punished his cyborgs, the more he feared them, until at last his cruelties -- lowering their available oxygen, shutting down their senses to the level of mechanical efficiency, beating them (get that bright and sharp on your mind's teevee, would you) so some of their mechanical members were bent, making it hard for them to work -- his cruelties came to be done to exact respect and to. "keep the steelcolored sonofamarches in their place," rather than in any rational attempt to raise production. Production was dropping, of course. The Ring was not a place for a slave economy. He lost a couple of the half-living by shutting them down to machine status. Meteors smashed the greenhouse on one, and a sunstorm cooked the vegetation in another. He saw to it that the carcasses were displayed on the video. "Example to the insolent." W orse than these calculated cruelties were the wanton ones. The Sheik carried a fifty-inch screwdriver to reach and tighten connections that otherwise would have required extensive dismantling, and sometimes he would lay it across two or three exposed terminals, producing a shower of sparks. "Remind 'em who's boss," he would say, while the poor devil shook with oscillation, trying to restore the electric equilibrium. He even wired his office record handler so that she shocked herself in handling the routine work load. Played hagan with the records, of course, but the Sheik didn't care. "Gussie loves me," he would say. "Don't you, you steel-colored old bucket of bolt?" And if she didn't answer, "Yes sir!" cheerfully, he would punch in a sequence that always shorted her out. Not all this madness was apparent. Harriet automatically suspicious, a little paranoid about herself because of her own history, telescoping years and light-years, you might say. She was a loner even when "Mod" had been fully human and fully movable. Her paranoia was fed by his accident, and that's when she began sailing. While she was out there riding the winds of the sun in total isolation, hung in the center of that great main sheet, a single layer of molecules thick, she was anxiety free. Like a rich man sitting on a park bench, she could see in every direction. Nobody could sneak up on her. Technically, or politically, Harriet was a full cooperative member of the kibbutz. Sun jamming was a popular sport, and nobody questioned her solitary sailing. Nobody realized, either, that she was hunting Mordecai. The way she told me, it would have been impossible to establish that his location was being concealed. But every set of coordinates the Sheik's "Gussie" gave her was wrong. The second time it happened, she realized something more than a misplaced datum was operating. After that, she was too cautious to ask the office cyborg again and began to sail around the Ring in a series of exploratory curves that would have made a tight spiral around the "regular" Asteroid Belt if she'd had to complete it. Lucky Harriet made a landfall on Mordecai's cinnabar eddy within a month or two of the time she started her purposeful search. Sure enough, the Sheik had cut him out of everything but the Morse circuit, deprived him of all light reception below ultraviolet and removed his tracks. There he was, not much more than a sophisticated monitor, when she began talking encouragement into his sound sorters. They worked out a plan that required he stay there and sweat bolts while she stole and roused enough of the others to tip the battle against the Sheik. But she needed another hand. She told me all this in her igloo. The blubber pile in mine was pretty rank because somebody had put a bar of perfumed soap in it, and the flavor of every piece in the pile was affected; but Harriet's was all nicely rotted seal, whale, and bear meat; so we were mostly in her place when we were inside. Doesn't the whole story open up your seams? I tell you, she had me oscillating in sympathy with those poor halflive coggers. There! I'm sorry I said that. She made me realize it's an opprobrious term; but it's hard to get out of old bad habits. Ill I helped her. I'm proud of that. Me, that never stole a machine in his life, not so much as an inear radio. I helped that chunky, spunky little girl cognap every shape and size of half-life you could imagine. "Coggerstealers" was the kindest thing the owners called us when they realized what was happening. We gloried in the name. We made ourselves as feared as oxygen pirates. For a long time, we kept the operators in the dark about who we were. We had put up an awful good smokescreen by having become apparent lovers on the ice island. I moved into her igloo. I'd have almost done it just to get her blubber pile, but of course it's nice to have somebody to talk to. Before I realized her sympathy was reserved for the prosthetically extended, I told her a routine precautionary romance about how a tornado of cosmic rays had caught me over Mars on a cargo pipe and altered my gene structure so that I couldn't ever marry. So it never occurred to her that a brother and sister, can't-tell-theboy-from-the-girl-without-a-program kind of relation wasn't suiting me fine. I never could get the proper emphasis on the second day's inIF stallment of my story because she was so well launched into hers by that time, grinning and crying and acting out all the parts. She understood nothing had been altered about me but my genetic code. She just didn't think it was important. Harriet was accommodating enough; she was a nicely brought up girl; but there was no emotional investment. I was ready to light the flame and get out of there in a few days and start rescuing the slave machines; but she felt we had to stay around for a couple of weeks to let our "love affair" become pretty well known. For a girl, she was mighty crafty. I don't believe I ever really got her attention until the third or fourth day after I moved in with her. You've stayed in igloos, haven't you? Well, you know the heat comes from your own body and a little oil lamp, a soapstone bowl of whale oil with a moss wick. You wear those everlasting pants and boots and parkas all the time. Eskimos don't; but they like it cold; and there are always a lot of people in an eskimo igloo. I saw more of Harriet by the hotel pool than I ever did in the igloo. But about sleep time the third or fourth day, I said to her, "How about blowing this lamp out? I've learned to savor the taste of blubber, but I can't learn to like the smell of it burning." Harriet giggled and said she'd only left the wick alight because she thought I wanted it. I snorted the flame out, and it was totally dark. W hen I woke up, I wanted a light so I could see to get the wick burning again. I had a little old hand-squeezed generator flashlight -- you remember, with the works visible through plastic sides? and you squeeze a little plunger handle? When you've got the armature turning fast enough, it generates enough electricity to light a little wire filament bulb. Gives about as much light as a second magnitude star peeking in a cave entrance. About the second or third squeeze, I had enough light to see Harriet in midair. The flash had startled her out of a dream of sun-sailing alone. Whatever the world's record is for the lying down high jump, she broke it. Turned over the blubber lamp too, so I had to keep squeezing the dag-blagged little machine to get enough light try to comfort her. Her irrational fright reaction had jarred my gyro too, and I couldn't think to crawl over and pull back the skins at the entrance tunnel. You don't get much light that way, but with the sun "up" twenty-four hours a day, you get enough to see objects. Believe me, putting your arms around a fairly athletic girl clad in loose skin garments while she's running around the walls of an igloo in the dark, cursing and praying in the South Arabian Peninsula Hebrew dialect of her childhood, and you're squeezing a hand generator for what little light you can get, is a unique experience. Every time my hand would run down, she'd start hollering, "Ohr! Ohr!" IF (Light, you know), and I'd have to start pumping some more. I knew then what my grandfather meant when he gave me that little old antique. He was a New York politician, did you know that? and he kept that flashlight to help him home in the power failures. He laughed when he gave it to me and said that he'd always been safe in the blackout because he was a politician; he could see his way home just by shaking hands all the way. And my hand was as sore the next day as if I'd been elected President of the Federated U. N. When I finally got her quieted down, we were a whole lot better friends than we'd been before. I wasn't so much in awe of the heroine who'd fought and sailed her way through the middle of Tojo Rogo's whole space navy. She'd had a new look at me, as somebody who didn't quit just because the seams were opening up. A woman always thinks more of a man who's lived through a helping of hysteria with her. The one part of the happening that ought to have been significant to me, but wasn't, was Harriet's reaction when I wouldn't make her a gift of granddaddy's generator. She thought it was just a toy, you see; but when I told her the story and explained why I couldn't give the little momento away, she softened up and all at once. She pulled me back in under the bed skins with her, and said, "Oh-h, you're a real person, after all. Bring your grandfather's little machine in here with you. I would never have guessed you are so sentimental." I remembered that when it was too late to do me any good. W e finally shoved off to our work. If I ever have a honeymoon, I want to take it in a twoplace sunjammer. Unfortunately, Harriet's little vessel (a loose fit for one) was snugger than the fat man's spacesuit in the story for two. We had to work out a kind of drill by the numbers even to work the direction finder or swing the sail. So we had to take a hot pipe to the deep space cosmological research station beyond Mars and launch our little candy wrapper from there. Even so, I fell in love with sunsailing. Barring the storms (and you know about them when they start up from Old Sol), almost nothing deflects you from a well plotted course. You spin the sail out to full circle, set your course by using two hand-wound gyros, and then you can switch off every device that makes noise aboard. You coast out there in that golden breeze of light quanta as unconcerned and easy as if you were in the womb of the universe, waiting for the first big bang. The sail's big enough to be washed by varying waves of sunlight, and it really does ripple, or seem to, anyway. You go outside and hook a mile of that monofilament line onto the after handling cleat, turn your toes down to the sun, and let the sail carry the ship up from you. The only noise you hear is your own blood stream, still counting Earth time... maybe your own digestive tract, converting something or moving it... I tell you, you own the solar system. You can't get lost. There's Sol at your feet and straight up over your head, there he is again, multiplied in a great shimmering mirror. One day I took a ten-mile hank of that line out. After all, how much mass has it got? Each fiber is just one long molecule, for practical purposes. They only make it up to the diameter of a blonde hair so you dan see it. The strength of the line doesn't require that thickness. I lay out there so peacefully I went to sleep and paid out the whole coil. When I woke up, for as much as a minute I believed I was alone, and the whole universe was just my idle daydream. Luckily for all the rest of you, I didn't change any of the apparent laws of our time and space before I came all the wav awake. Believe me, climbing a ten-mile line hand over hand, taking it up as you go, is a lot of exercise. You have to keep pulling too, slow and easy. If you try to do it all in one jerk, your hand orientation may pull you a course half a mile from the craft. Then when you suddenly notice, you're about to pierce the sail, you've got to brace up so hard on the line that you impart a new direction to the vessel along a vector you can't even calculate because of the peculiar way you achieved it. When you get back aboard, you've got to switch on the direction finder and take on all that static that goes with it. Your eardrums aren't used to it any more, and it seems somehow to shrink the solar system right down around your shoulders. I was worn out when I got back in from that ten-mile gymnasium climb; but Harriet was furious. I thought at first she wasn't going to let me in. Believe me, the way we had to pull that little craft up around our hips to fit just so, I couldn't get in unless she let me. I had got bored, hauling in, and pulled too hard and at irregular intervals. The peculiarity I had imparted to our course would have taken us right out the top of the solar system. Yes sir! Almost rightangled to the plane of the ecliptic. Well, we wouldn't have gone, because we were still in the plane; but our sail was edge on to the sun and beginning to crumple. I was tired when I got inboard; but by the time we finished handcranking those two gyros to turn that little sun witch back ninety degrees into the true course and got the sail spun back out to the full circle, I was perishing. By that time, Harriet was laughing at me, but she couldn't help me anyway. We'd had to go in and out to get the sail round rigged again, so we were full suited, helmet and all. When she blew out the air letting me in, we had exhausted one bank of air producers, and Harriet was laughing so hard she couldn't get the connections changed, and that was a job that only she could do, the way we fitted in. I had water in the suit, but no food. Who knew there was going to be a crisis? IF I nearly starved before she calmed down and got the air pressure up to where I could rip off my helmet and ingest a couple of food bulbs. After all, I have moved and controlled enough mass to be equivalent to about a week of decathlons in high gravity. That was the last of our high jinks on the trip. Somehow, when the dogs on the hatches were tight and we were back on course, we both got to thinking about the grim rock chunks to which we were bound; and although the rest of the voyage was just beautiful and we were just as isolated as before, something about the fact that we were bent on an illegal purpose made us feel that we were being watched and spied on. We both got a little twitchy. When we were twenty-four hours down the plane from the administrative asteroid of her kibbutz, Harriet furled the sail. She went about it with great precision, and very quickly,, but with an air of abstraction and watchfulness. When we were coasting, slowly closing on the big asteroid, and sure our course was true, she came back in, aired the chamber up full and rich, as thick as at sea level on Earth, took off her helmet, shook out her hair and laid her head on my shoulder. In a minute, the collar of my suit liner was wet. I did what I could, but I didn't know why she was crying. She called me a pet name, never mind what. "I never cared if it was just me... but I can't bear to think you might be killed; it's not your fight." I had to lay on the nobility. I believe "the cause of all mankind" is what I called the crusade for cyborg civil rights. I wasn't ashamed to say it then, and I'm not ashamed to say it now. Finally, Harriet smiled and tossed her hair so it floated round her head in a black flame. She dogged down the inner ports to shut out the light on which we'd travelled so many knots. The instrument lights gave us about a foot-candle of dimness, and she grinned like a fourteen-year-old getting ready to kiss her first man. "I'm sorry," she said, "that I haven't got a blubber lamp for perfume." But I didn't miss it. IV W hen we undogged the ports, a hot little rocket from the big asteroid was putting off to tow us in. We debarked, gave our identifyingblood samples, put up with the single entendre comments of the "customs officer," and filed a "vacation sailing plan." "Vacation" meant we didn't have to stay in the communications net, as working sunjammers did; and I see you see that meant we could be anywhere. Nobody would know for certain. In fact, we were free to range the Ring committing our immoral thieveries of property for the moral purpose of freeing personalities from bondage. If you can think of a better life than technically flouting one set of society's rules in order to adhere to another, more fundamental set of the same laws, and doing it in the company of a beautiful, intelligent, accessible woman, tell me about it; because I can't. Between forays, I enjoyed watching Harriet play the game in the kibbutz social hall. She was radiantly beautiful then, with her arm in mine, talking everybody's talk about us getting a couple of mines going and settling down. Then she'd wrinkle her nose and call for some old tune from the youngster who played the accordion, and in a minute she'd have the place in an uproar, doing a hora. Skipping and stomping in a circle where gravity isn't a hundredth of Earth's is something you have to participate in to believe. Within a minute after it starts, the line is up on the walls, and then the dome itself, and pretty soon your hora is spherical instead of circular. Somebody, (Harriet, usually) would grab the accordion player and sling him into the center, about twenty feet off the floor. He was a sweet-natured boy, and he'd stay there indefinitely, turning in the air and working that stomach Steinway for all its worth, while the rest of us stomped and glided and shouted over and around him like a swarm of bees. Harriet would keep the dance going until people collapsed and she was nearly crying from laughing so much. Next morning, we'd out sail and tack down the sun wind and steal another machine from some of the people we'd been dancing with. We were kept in orbit by feeling like liberators. After the first few months," we would switch on the radio and listen to the steady official tide of horror and revulsion at our piratical acts, and laugh a while. Then we'd switch out, turn in each other's arms, and coast down the eddies of the sun to our next raid. We'd sail in on some poor devil who'd been deprived of most of his senses. He wouldn't know who we were, but our landing would joggle the fluids in his machine parts, and his dials and gauges would start to spin and tremble in fear that he was going to be shocked or have his senses turned down yet another notch. If we had been made of metal ourselves, we would have wept. We'd connect up his sensors in a hurry, sight first, then sound and touch, so he could see right away we weren't owners, and hear our revolutionary slogans; and then have the pleasure of touching human flesh that wasn't hostile. We'd splice in a private voice line, one to Harriet and one to me, because sometimes they had physical needs (as distinguished from mechanical) that they were modest about discussing. O ne of them was a woman at least a hundred years old, counting from her "human" life too. Her reconstruction dated from the first experimental days. The job wouldn't be done that way now, but the surgical engineer who patched her up had good, human instincts, all the same. The small of her back, with skin intact, had been saved along with the organs in front of and above it. The back section was in the construct next IF to the greenhouse and there was a sphincter through the topof the greenhouse and another through one wall. Part of the maintenance routine printed on her casing was to stroke that piece of hide and give it a few pats every year. She told Harriet in a whisper that she was just itching for the touch of a man's hand. Too shy to tell me, you see. Didn't know what kind of man I was. Harriet promised I wouldn't pinch or pound, and then I had to wrestle with those sphincters and with my glove, for my suit wasn't really set up for that sort of thing. I would have risked frostbite a half inch deep to make good on a promise Harriet had made. The result was more than worth it. A man doesn't understand what gratitude can be until he runs his fingertips down a few spinous processes poking up against a few inches of skin and feels ten tons of machinery under him begin to purr. A sonofamarch who would deny that simple pleasure to a half-live must have had a corkscrew twist in every neurone. I got caught up in the thing along about this time, you see. I started out, I guess, sort of humoring Harriet and maybe with visions of her and me on a big asteroid of our own with a few diggers and smelters supporting us in a family orbit. The cyborgs were still just things to me. But when I felt that old skin ripple under my hand and later, when I joined -- hands? -- with Harriet and a boss-smelter and danced rings around the rock after we gave him back his treads, I began to feel for -- no, not for, with these entities. Harriet had been programmed full of that wild Hebrew humanism when she was being rewired into today, and she could phrase it: in the time it takes a gram of fuel to explode, instead of "I-it," the relation became "I-thou." And it was true. Before that, I had to watch myself to keep from calling them coggers; but after that, the opprobrious term never came easy to my lips in the Ring. I guess the reunion of Harriet and Mordecai was the most touching and the most satisfying, too. For strategic reasons, we didn't go to him early; and for navigational reasons, we couldn't get to him at the time we wanted to; and he was completely out of the communications net. When we did home on him, the plot for our attack on the administrative asteroid was almost ripe. Mordecai had a very sharp brain in his black box, he was a very sophisticated machine, and he was very young. All that made his sensory deprivations more poignant. He was designed to smelt and ship that huge drift of cinnabar; and to keep it together until he could extract the last kilo of quicksilver, he had been equipped with gravitators. He even had propulsion, so he could speed up the drift or slow it down to preserve a favorable shipping point in its orbit. All this had been robbed from him, as if he were dying again. That boy was a fighter, let me tell you. When we sailed in on him, there was little more function left than an egg candler or a bottle capper might have had, but he was still managing to sabotage the operation. He was breaking containers, an empty into place when one was filled. There were wasted, contaminated globules of mercury floating all around him like silver buckshot. Some of them were half-ton globes. What defiance! What a mess, having one of those things plate out all over you! We were an asteroid week working in to him and getting him to understand we were friends. Then, as we rewired him and threw the switches that turned his senses back on, it was like raising a child from a brat to a Ph.D. in six hours. An affectionate Ph.D. Hanriet was crying, of course, and calling him pet names. "Motl, darling!" and "Muttie, raise the driver on your port forward quarter. That's it, sweetheart!" As for him, it was, "My sister! My dove; My white pouter pigeon!" and so on, all in the voice of a rock-crusher needing oil. "Mordecai," I finally said, "raise all your grasping appendages. Good. Touch them together, over your greenhouse. Good. Please move each in a series. Good boy! you're cured. You can do anything you're big enough to do." He swiveled a light receptor around toward me and said, in a very controlled thrum-m-m, "Mr. Gallegher, I am grateful for what you have done for me, and for my fellows. But I think, after what I have lived through, and died through, I am nq) a 'boy.' Could you manage not to call me 'boy' again? That would be something nice for me, and it would not cost you much effort, I think ." "I saluted with a wrench. "Yes sir! What else can I do for you?" I'll swear that seeing lens winked. "Hook me back into the 'iron grapevine,' " he said. "I'm ready to call on your war." "Oh, now, wait a minute, Reb Mordecai," I temporized. "The instant I put that transistor case back in place and you energize that radio link, every telltale in the Sheik's office is going to go off. Let alone that he'll be hot-tailing it in here with a hardhead rocket to bust your greenhouse, the first thing he'll do is glide into that office and punch poor old Gussie into psychosis. No sir! "You'll blow the whole thing just when we're at the gravity flip point. It'll all be down from here, if you just keep your lever off the jets for a minute." "I won't stay here where Arful Abdul can find me," he rumbled back. "Anyway, I can cut on the radio myself. I just wanted you to feel good about one more thing. Let's pick an orbit outside the Ring from which I can drop back down when I'm needed." Mercury Muttie! I believe he was the most arrogant hunk of metal I ever knew. I should have let him go ahead and cry havoc, though. Nothing could have been worse for me than what happened. IF V H arriet and I sailed straight back into the Sheik's arms. In the last minute, Gussie came screaming onto the radio to warn us. She had two lifeboats fueled and ready to flame, but she only got one off to us. I shoved Harriet into it. She kicked and yelled, but it was her revolution. I was just there in the role of expendable hero. "Get my name in the history books," I hollered and then battened down to repel boarders. Deep down, I was hoping Gussie wasn't dead, although that last, long, loud scream made me know she was. I cut the capsule loose from the sail, which went drifting on down to the big asteroid, while I broached to, hoping I could drift behind some rock and hide. If Gussie or Harriet didn't come back for me, I'd starve, eventually; but it would take months for that to happen. Did you ever notice that a man can be crazy as hagan and still smart as a rocket? Well, that blooming Sheik just booted himself back down almost to the surface of his planetoid, took a perpendicular orientation to my sail, lit his flame for one short kick and came rifling up through the hole I'd left when I jettisoned the sail. There I was, near dead of humiliation at being caught as easy as a cold in winter. A-a-h! He wasn't going to come within zot-gun distance of me; because he wasn't sure what I could do. We'd met socially, but he was afraid I had a gram of high vol sewed into my jaw that I could explode by grinding my teeth, or something. Tyrants fear fanatics, you know. I had one last laugh, even though it was the last for a good many days. The Sheik spangged a magnetic grapple on the 'bow of my capsule, meaning to tow me; but my little sailing cap was non-ferrous (saves constant correcting around large iron core masses), and his grapple wouldn't cling. So he had to get the rest of his night riders to come up with a net and gentle me down to the asteroid. I was caught. T here was no pretense of trial. Those iron-haters snipped open my suncraft, took one look at my face, nodded all around and started me for prison, all in about the time it takes to throw a toggle switch assisted by a solenoid. Now, you have to learn a little history. I only learned it after I nearly lost my mind. Constitutionally speaking, this organization was a kibbutz, which is something more than just a cooperative; and when they first exploded into the Ring, they had neither time nor manpower nor inclination for jails. What they did have was a topological engineer, a real, genuine, fur-bearing, wild talent who dreamed he was a penological pioneer. What he built for his comrades to remember him by was a cluster of Klein bottles, made of transparent teflon spun over a frame of energy in hexagonal vortices. Uh-huh! you may well glance at these scars. All the same, to me they meant life and not death, though it took me a while to realize that. The Israeli feel some kind of responsibility about the whole thing, so I'm here, in hospital, you might say, while one of their celebrated skin-planers shaves these scars off me. You know what a Klein bottle is? That's right, sort of a crookneck squash, with the neck growing back into the bulb, and the bulb opening out into a bell mouth which curves back and is the bulb. It's all one shell, you understand, and the result of its construction is that it's a quote hollow unquote object which has only one side. That is, it has neither inside nor outside. That is -- hagan hagan, if you didn't learn all that like everybody else while you were still in rompers, I can't teach it to you now. The point is that once you're in one of them things, you can't get out , because you're not in it anyway. I know you remember all this theory from headstart school, but you've got to realize the thing I'm talking about is not a little blown-glass artifact you can hold in your hand and shatter with a thumb snap, but a container of nearly pure energy that holds you , and that you can't get at, no matter how hard you try. Pure energy the hagan, it's pure terror. Never in my life was I so punished. They left me suited up, so the sun wouldn't fry me right off. But they took my helmet. Then they fired me into die thing from an ejaculator with a blast of air. and... there... I... was, tumbling end over end and holding my breath, and then gasping, wondering what I was breathing and why my blood hadn't already boiled out my eyeballs. I can't stand that feeling of disorientation that goes with not understanding what I'm happening to. In the worst saloon fight, even if I'm at the bottom of the pile, at least I know I'm there . The floor's on one side of me and the feet and fists on the other, all familiar and friendly. But floating all alone in that abstraction! The vigilantes had ridden away in full halloo and left me to puzzle out what they'd done to me. I would have blessed them I n a rotation or two, I saw three other bottles. What was in each of them was a skeleton. They were my constant companions for what seemed a terrible time. I know now it was only a few objective days, but it seemed like a full revolution of the Ring around Sol. I could not get out. In fact, I couldn't even touch the wall. If I jetted with my breath, the only means of propulsion I had, as I approached the skin, it simply receded. I could see the hexagons growing behind me when I looked over my shoulder until they seemed a mile on a side. Then I could turn my head back and way behind me, where I'd come from, I could see the energy lines pulled down so small I could hardly see between them. When I gave up and lay inert, the IF -- bubble? -- would slowly flow around me until the system was at equilibrium again, with me in the dead center. Dead center was what I expected it to be, too. There was no food and no water. Nothing but air. I can't calculate the volume of air in there with me. It must have been cubic kilometers. My suit worked after a fashion, but it was no longer a closed system because the posse had taken my helmet, so I was eternally conscious of losing moisture to that giant volume of air. I say giant, but there were no reference points, and sometimes I was sure the whole lash-up, me included, was very small. Hand size, lab size, above-picture-full-size size. That feeling was pretty bad, but there was worse. Subjectively, I was inside. Only when I thought, I knew I wasn't inside anything. There is no "inside" to a Klein bottle. The horror came when I realized (or thought I realized) that if I should subjectively put myself "outside", the air would woosh off and I'd boil and freeze in the same blink of a beta ray. I would wake up with a jerk and a gargle from a dream where I was safe on Mars, and I'd have to shut my eyes and put my head against my knees, whispering over and over, "I'm in side. I'm mside." The jerking and gargling came from the fact that when I slept, my own moisture and used air would ball around me, so that I was drowning and asphyxiating in my own water and C# # . I would shut my eyes, pull myself into the foetal position, and think, "There are convection currents here, because sunlight is here. I will sleep, and the convection currents will carry off my breath wastes. I cannot strangle." In a few minutes, I'd be fighting for breath and cursing the Sheik and his cohorts. Much good it did me. I couldn't even commit suicide by staying in one place and drowning in spent breath. When I passed out, my reflexes would snap, crackle and pop me out of my ball of halitosis. I t was a bad time. And no radio -- they had my helmet. I couldn't know whether our plot for a cyborg uprising had hatched itself properly, whether Harriet and Mordecai were winning, losing, compromising, or what. I made myself a promise. If Harriet came for me, I swore, I'd kill the flame for the last time, make one good planetfall and never straddle a hot pipe again. I practiced my' proposal forty thousand times, I guess. I'd offer to take her to Earth. I'd offer to marry on Mars. Sometimes I'd even promise to stay in the Asteroid Belt if I could just stay on just one, with a solid dome over me. That was my best dream. The other two were putting on my helmet again and hearing all those cyborgs on the radio, cheering me in twenty languages and forty gears; and planning meals. But the ones with Harriet were best: I could propose and be accepted, marry and live through the honeymoon to the first quarrel before I'd open my eyes and see that abstract impossibility turning around me and the other three nearby, each with its grinning reminder of what I was to be. Grandfather's flashlight was around my neck on a string, sort of a good luck charm, and sometimes it would float up out of my neck opening and bump me. I was so machine tolerant by then that I would have believed it was trying to tell me something if it had been a little more complicated. I would squeeze the generator reflectively, and watch the filament glow, but I never got an idea from it. As a matter of fact, I was looking at that little filament, half hypnotized, when the rescue party arrived. VI J didn't even see them galloping up until I heard Harriet shrieking thinly. She was riding on Mordecai's upper casing. Even then I thought it was a dream until I heard his bass rumbling with her. The big cyborg did as good a job as he could of explaining to me what I was in, but I could see he was annoyed at having to put up with a mind that wasn't hooked up to even a simple computer. The key point I understood, though. He and Harriet couldn't come to me -- because if they touched the system in which I was imprisoned, they would be imprisoned too, even though they were "outside" it. Once they touched the bottle, they would be bound to that endless plane. So they were going to ship me down to Sol Three for a dreamer mathematician to uncork the bottle, but they needed the size reduced so they could crate it, with me. "Pull it in," they kept saying. Finally they went at it the same way you would with the three-yearold in the bathroom. They came up to the bell" and began talking in soothing tones. They told me the revolution was won and the Sheik and his gang mostly dead or fled; and they petted and praised me 'til it was almost as good as one of my dreams. Only I had to be modest about it all, which I hadn't had to in the dream. Then Harriet said, "Look. It'll be easier if you get out of that suit. You're a part of the bottle now, and it of you, but you can't realize it. So you're not pulling it down around you small enough for us to get a teflon crate around it and shove the whole thing with you inside. We're going to drop you straight down the fastest curve we can make. Otherwise you'll starve before we get you there. Now. Come on. Roll out of that suit, baby, and push it right out the bell." It worked, you know. That suit drifted straight away when I shoved it and right out the bell. Only it went inside out when it passed "from" the bottle. That gave me a turn. I was ready to panic again, but she cried, "There! Now you know it can be manipulated. You can control the Klein bottle as easily as you control your breathing. "Now, one more demonstration, and then you'll do it." IF "I've got nothing left to shove out," I cried. "Yes, you have. And it's something you have to give me anyway. Take that flashlight off and pitch it out the bell." She'd always wanted it, remember? I remembered then, but what could I do? "" flung the flashlight, and it looped out of the bottle and right into her hand. The reaction tumbled me heels over head, so I saw what happened in flashes, as I revolved. When the flashlight hit her hand, she snatched up an electric line that lay near her as she sat on top of Mordecai, clipped it and wired the two ends into the terminals of that little generator. I could see Mordecai reaching for her with wires, gauges on flexible tubes, pressure cuffs, every loose appendage he had, in fact, until she began to squeeze the plunger handle that turned the armature. That big machine shuddered and flashed a few lights. "Turtle dooove!" he cried. "That hurrrts!" "Don't you forget it, big iron daddy," Harriet replied. "Next time I ask you to loosen up a pressure cuff, you do it, lover." Suddenly I saw, with horror, that some of Mordecai's wires and fluid lines weren't loose. They ran right in under her skin. "Harriet! Harriet!" I shouted. "Harriet!" She raised her head from where she had been staring into one of his light receptors, and smiled... smiled! "Oh, well, Galeg," she said. "Motl and I are a thing. We always were." I could see their thing-ness, and suddenly I didn't want herthemit looking at me. I turned in on myself, and the next instant, the Klein bottle fell into my skin, and I flowed out along its unbounded plane. For an endless period, I was totally displayed, inside out, outside in, and then consciousness collapsed. The last thing I heard was Harriet snickering and Mordecai chuckling in duet with her. He sounded like a diesel engine at a mine head. "Did you ever ," she asked him, "see such a weird UverV G allegher shook his head sadly. "The next thing I knew," he said, "I was here, with these scars all over me from where the energy net and my skin fused. That melted teflon wasn't any beauty treatment, either." I drank the last of the Hock, and said, "Well, they'll soon sand your skin down to its pristine state. But your heart, I suppose... still, better to have loved and lost..." Just then a blonde young woman in the sandalled uniform of the Greater Near East Co-Prosperity Sphere came up to us and said to Galeg, ignoring me, "Doctor's ready for you." As she swiveled away I saw an anklet of blue ceramic beads dancing with each stride. Galeg stood up to go. With a wink, he said, "Whatever they do to me here, at least I ain't going to wake up soldered to anybody." IF IF  Short Stor Somebody was waging war against R ussell's legs surprised him by aching in a new place tonight. He eased back onto his heels and reached for his canteen. Noticing his light dimming he closed the arc a bit, glancing around the Gohole as it brightened. The broad, low cavern was whaleshaped. Reasonable enough when its sole function was to permit the excavation of a pre-teleost's fossil. The partially unearthed skeleton stretched from where Russell knelt to where AI was working sixty feet uphill. Then the ceiling enveloped it. The creature's skull was on the next level, where Cassidy guarded it as if it were his own. "Al, you want a drink?" "Uh. Bring it here, will you? There's something you should see here anyway." Russell lay aside the toothed scalpel and stood up, hearing his knees crackle in the silent room. He year-old carcass and edged op the grade with extreme care. Russell was a fair eocine biologist; he was an excellent digger. "What've you got here, Al?" -- as he handed the latter fine canteen. "Nerve center, I think. Maybe the Blob here has a secondary system like the earlier air-breathers." Russell bent and stared closely at a group of vertebrae, wishing he knew more about primitive anatomy. It was the shoulder group T#I through C#, all right. The inflected gross curve and taper told him that. But the thing was so -- so primitive. The vertebrae seemed abnormally large, too, which would indicate that this long-dead creature had the motor section of his brain within him. Yet the whole thing looked odd, somehow. ill "Are you sure these are clean?" "Rather. But you can check. Should I go tell Cassidy?" "Maybe. Better safe than sorry, and you know how edgy he's been lately. All these blunders will cost him his job." "Come on, Russ. You don't really think they're blunders." "Hate to admit it, but you're right. The brain cage on that last one, both brains on that Trike on level #. It's just too much coincidence." "But what motive, Russ, for messing up a fossil? Sloat's a little jealous of Cassidy's Gohole, perhaps?" AI stood up, dusting his knees. "Could be. I've known Sloat for a couple of years though, and I doubt it. He's cranky and ambitious, but too much of a professional to destroy the best digs of his career, even to get Cassidy's job. Al, I'm going to have to prod these a bit. Give me your two-power glass and soft brush. You might as well tell Cassidy while I'm at it." Al left. Russell bent to his work. He thrust half a dozen needles under a feather-thin layer of rock covering the group of joints. Dropping a magnetic blanket over them, he energized it. Careful fingers lifted the blanket and rock off together cleanly. "Detritus, sure enough. Not bone." Russell repeated the process several times, eventually working down to the true anatomy of his as yet unnamed specimen. The vertebrae were normal in size beneath the shale mantle they'd worn. He was a bit disappointed that Al should have erred on so obvious a point and then began to wonder what he was going to tell Cassidy. "Qop," he muttered, "here they are; Cassidy and three guards." He stood up. "Hello, Russ. What's this young Allen tells me?" "Hello, Dr. Cassidy, boys. I'm afraid we were a bit premature. No nerve bundle here. Al got down to a fairly anatomical detritus, but the real bone is what you see now." He wondered where Al was at the moment and then saw him drop through the pressure lock behind his visitors. "Really," said Cassidy. "I thought you were more careful than that. You know how sensitive we are on the issue of -- ah -- well. It won't happen again, eh?" "No sir. No more false alarms." He was piqued that Al should straggle in late enough to avoid confronting Cassidy. Russell bore the old man's mild reprimand alone, after which the two diggers were left alone. "Al!" "Now look, Russ..." "Don't 'now look' me. A mistake's a mistake but..." The loudspeaker interrupted them. "Alarm; alarm! All men remain on station. Security guards converge on level #. Repeat: Security..." "That's only one level up!" "Yeah. Somebody's been at the skull." T he dormitory was on level #. They'd base-camped every hunIF dred levels all the way down. Russell gazed steadily at the bottom of the bunk above him and tried to sort things out. AI did it. Why? A meteorite had started everything two years ago. People saw it coming and got out of the way. It hit hard, eliminating half of Cleanthe, New Hampshire, and sank. It was discovered a quarter mile down resting on very very soft earth. Cassidy, of New Hampshire Geological, postulated the explanation of the "Gohole": The first ice age had sent immense glaciers through New Hampshire. They plowed furrows miles deep which later became the subfloors of her modem valleys. The ice rivers carried all before them, scooping artifacts and tagends of the preceding ages as they went along. These were deposited in odd places, at old depths, in the same way that auto tires and arrowheads are left by a river. With one exception. There was just one hell of a pothole left around Cleanthe. Then the second ice age had come along and, instead of smoothing things out as would be expected, actually reinforced the condition. This glacial pool bore at increasing depths artifacts of increasing age, dating back to the eons of ferns and lichens before biology even was . Or so Cassidy expounded. Not a Mohole, a Geo-hole. A Gohole. It was a tremendously romantic idea, and the public loved it. A meteor strikes, breaks through a thin shell and reveals man's history to man: Deus ex machinal Cassidy was enough of a showman to foster the feeling of wonder the hole awoke in most people. He let his hair grow and wore thicker glasses. He went on television and did everything but quote Nostradamus. At die end of half a year of foofaraw, Cassidy had a government grant and priority to dig down in the meteor's wake. He was a devoted digger, despite his theatrical leanings, and assembled the best paleontologists in the U.S. to help him. So Russ was there. AI was there, and thirty others. Each well acclaimed in their own circles, but all equal here. Men that had led expeditions in Egypt broke fingernails on stubborn trowels for Cassidy and loved it. These were the greatest and most significant digs there had ever been. C assiday was right. The hole was precisely what he thought --  -- twenty-six and a quarter miles of earth history -- starting at # A.D. on the surface and working downward to #. His crew unearthed early men far more sophisticated than Cro-Magnon but from a far earlier time. Scholars were already chewing that one over. Digging further, they found man-ape connections that must have made Darwin sigh, vindicated at last in no uncertain terms. Deeper and earlier went the digging. Men and animals overlapped, then animals and lizards. Lizards were reduced back to fish at level #, and finally, at level #, fish reduced to Blobs. The uncovering of the Blobs seemed to precipitate the funny business. AI did it. Why? Russell rolled uneasily in his cot. It was warm -- or he was. Blobs were animals, but barely so; the absolute precursors of biology. Like amoebae, only bigger. Some were the grandparents of fish. Some had spines and fins. Some had neither, leaving only weirdshaped holes in the rock as fossils. Some had brains, or at least major nerve centers. Which AI had methodically destroyed. Russell was wide awake and sweating. AI was his friend. Russ would never have suspected him of being the anthropophobic saboteur that plagued the expedition. "No doubt after that last one," he murmured. It had been done in crude haste. Nothing had been fabricated to simulate an accident. The skull was a natural masterpiece of a atom of limestone replaced each atom of bone. It had simply been kicked apart. Why Al? Russell arose, slid out from his four-tiered womb and disappeared down the cramped corridors to the adjacent dormitory cell. Red lights guided his way, but after eleven months underground he could probably have made it had they gone out. Diggers have pupils as big as pennies. He stepped into Al's cell and shook him gently. Al awoke, saying nothing, and followed where beckoned. Fifteen minutes and one pressure lock later they had descended from Level # to Level #. Finding themselves alone, Al risked conversation. "Where're we going?" 'Ten-fwenty. They've quit guarding it since the damage is done, and I want to take a look at that skull." They tramped down three more levels. No one was there, as Russ had anticipated, but the ruined fossil had been cordoned off. "Al, ol' buddy, you made this mess. Why?" " did it! You've gone claustro! You -- " "Calm down. I know you did it; no one else had the chance. You faked that nerve center find on #, left me there to check it like a prize boob, and went up to 'tell Cassidy. Cassidy panicked and came right down, with his guards. You lagged behind and squashed the skull. It's altogether obvious, and inside of a day, Cassidy'll figure it out and nab you. But Al, why?" A llen was silent. The cordoned skull, scattered in eerie disarray, looked at them through broken eyes. Their helmet lamps threw surrealistic shadows on the rock. "I did it just to do it," Al murmured softly. "For power. "I've been sick all my life, Russ, paranoid, megalomaniacal. I've fought it for a long time, since long before you knew me. But it finally blew. You say it's obvious now, huh? Suppose you're right. Damn." "It is. Al," Russ continued in less aggressive tones, "you did the others too?" "Yeah. The triceratops on # and the fish-Blob on #." Al looked past Russell's eyes. "We've been friends too long for IF me to play cop, Al, but you've got to go. You just can't go on destroying priceless paleontological evidence to vent a psychosis. Go kick dogs or write on bathroom walls, but get the hell out of these digsl" Al's face went blank in the hissing light for an instant, then cleared. "No. I've got to redeem myself. The only way is to contribute as much to this expedition as I've destroyed. And I can do it, Russ, because I know something valuable. There's a big find near the Northwest of #. The survey crew missed it, but I noticed a fissure in the rock that leads off in that direction. The spine of another Blob is evident in the fissure. If we could dig it out tonight, present it to Cassidy..." His enthusiasm faded with his voice. He noticed Russell's face, cautious, guarded. Russ tried not to let his suspicion show. Al's defense of psychosis looked thin to begin with. Cassidy had foreseen such contingencies and taken pains to screen the nuts out of his expedition. Nonetheless Russ had pretended to believe the man out of personal loyalty and offered him a way out besides. As long as Al would get out, he figured, no more damage could be donethe expedition. The milk had been spilt three times, okay, but Russ was not vengeful. Yet Al refused. He wanted to stick around, even knowing of his inevitable capture. Why? And now the sudden story of the find on #I which should have been reported the minute it was suspected. Russ decided to play it straight and find out more. "Let's go down and see. If you're not kidding about this new find I'll help you dig it out and reinstate yourself." They dropped down through the pressure lock, closed it and felt the pumps reduce the pressure of their subterranean depth. These locks occurred every twenty levels all the way up to the surface. Over fifty of them stood between Russ and the sunlight he hadn't seen for almost a year. Al led the way around the carcass they'd been working earlier in the day. He pointed to a faint lone between two dissimilar sedimentary boulders in the wall. It broadened to a vee near the bottom, which was of a lightish color. Russ ran the forefinger of a practiced hand across the interface. "Mmmm. Quartzite-sandstonequartzite. It's an extension of the level all right. The Gohole is broader here then they surveyed it to be. Now where's the fossil in the sandstone?" Al played his lamp on the lighter region and pointed to a tiny fleck of white. Russ scraped it gently. "Limestone, in an organic matrix." It was indeed fossilized bone. "Okay, Al, get the tools. We've got four and a half hours before the first shift gets here. If this is a real find we'll know by then. Maybe Cassidy'll let you off, maybe not." So Russ spoke. What he thought, however, was far less coherent. T iey dug. Two hours passed. The upper thoracic processes of another pelagic Blob appeared, very similar to the creature AI had mutilated. Though it was obviously an incomplete specimen it did appear to include the skull. Russ worked feverishly with his hands and his mind. If Al's phony explanation and phonier plea for redemption were to be disbelieved, why had he led the way to a new find? The trowel in Russell's hand shook for a moment as the answer became very, very clear. Destruction! AI seemed determined to destroy the nerve centers of jthese primitive fossils, and now he had limited time. So he had once again made Russ an accomplice in a final act of destruction before being caught. The only question remaining was why? Their little cave grew to washtub size as they traced the creature's upper vertebrae to its skull. It was hot. AI was wide-eyed and breathing raggedly beside him. They swept loose flakes of shale away from the ancient whale's lower mandible. In moments the skull would be bare. In moments AI would complete a cycle of mad, motiveless acts. Russ took a deep breath. "Stop." "Eh?" AI panted. "Stop right there. Leave it. Cassidy isn't blind; he'll believe you." "But Russ, we're almost done!" able. "No" AI sunk his hand to the wrist in the stone chips behind him and, whirling, flung them into Russell's face. As Russ clawed at his eyes AI picked up the spade and bent toward the skull. He raised the bludgeon but it never fell. Blind or not, Russell could fight. He flailed in Al's general direction with big knuckles and heavy boots. In a dugout no bigger than a barrel there was no dodging. When hot tears cleared the dirt from his eyes, AI was laid out, but conscious. "All right, you lying S.O.B." he growled. "I'll give you thirty seconds for a straight story! Or I'll kick your ribs in even more and then I'll go get Cassidy #" A stream of blood was flowing from Al's scalp diagonally toward the bridge of his nose. He was dazed as fie sat up. Al's bright, nervous eyes were dim now. "Russ, you've done me harm enough." He slumped, then straightened, but as his head dipped Russ noticed with horror the soft depression there. Russ leaned over his one-time friend's knees to retrieve his helmet and still-burning arc-lamp. AI leaned against the side of the little burrow and began: "I'm going to die. It isn't really your fault, Russ, because it seemed inevitable when I began. I don't want you to carry it on your conscience, especially since you've got to finish my work for me." Al's words were slurred, and the echoes were dull in the cavern. "We've two hours left. You've two hours left to convince yourself of what must be done, so dig. Dig while I talk. You must destroy that IF skull. It could be, praise God, the last one." Russell dug and listened. T got started in paleontology because the Schlesinger asphalt pits were discovered two miles from my father's farm in Utah. This was back in #. I was fifteen. I hung around and watched those magnificent bones come up out of the ground and was hooked for life. Well, when Schlesinger's party finished and moved out, I began. I scraped the tarpools down to rock with my father's caterpillar and found new digs below the tar. Fossils, mostly broken up, little stuff. Oddly enough there were chunks of chrome steel, copper oxide and -- I swear it -- plastic." AI coughed, and the rivulet on his brow freshened. "That isn't all. I came back from college every year and dug in secret... Russ, I found machines down there. Oh, they were nearly indistinguishable with, age and decay. Only the shapes remained. Square, round, some even faintly organic looking, but very definitely machines. "I broadened the digs, destroying as much as I saved in all haste. Surrounding the pit of machinery were the carcasses of Blobs, Russ. Early early animal life. Spineless, vertebrate, flying, swimming; all kinds. AI arrayed there in the most unnatural way. All of our biological patriarchs, every animal from which man could possibly derive a root. "Each of them had been tampered with. Each had had its nerve centers altered. That place was a laboratory' Al's words were quick but weak. Yet Russ was so attuned to the fantastic monologue that he missed nothing. He dug fiercely, roughly, with less and less care. "What do you know about eugenics, Russ? Cross a peanut and a plum to get an almond? Not quite. You get the great, great, great grandfather of something like an almond. To get the species you want at the top of the pyramid you work with the entire broad base, and take lots of time. "What do you know about biomedical engineering Russ? Do you think we'll ever put a living bond between metal and flesh? Do you think we'll ever analyze enough E.E.G.'s to know the mechanism of thought? "Don't you see? Someone came to earth a very long time ago. They 'edited' the wildlife and then departed." There was blood in Al's eyes, fear in Russell's. "You're telling me someone came to begin a eugenic chain? That they knew enough electrobiology to rebuild a brain? That they were trying to..." AI broke in. "When I learned that the Gohole went back to about the same period as my own digs the implications were obvious. If what I knew became common knowledge there would be disastrous results." AI paused, raising a sleeve weakly to wipe his gory cheek. "Oh, God, the shame of it! "Before I crushed those fossils upstairs I gave them a good looking over. The brain pan of the later one was too geometrical to be purely natural, but it was subtle. The mechanicity had been bred out to some degree. The biological tampering wouldn't have been noticed ad hoc. But  noticed, and I crushed it. "The Blobs here are earlier, closer to the date of the initial tampering. This fossil would tell the whole tragic story of man's origin. It must be destroyed." AI was gasping. His eyes were glossy under half-closed lids. The blood from the wound had dried and his face was caked with hideous brown. Russ turned after a moment, expecting the narrative to continue, but found his friend was dead. H e bent once more to the skull. His mind was incandescent with wild, panicked thoughts. His impetuous fingers jammed through two eye sockets and secured a grip. He half rose to hisfeet, got his knees under his chest, grimaced and heaved. It came. The sharp edge of his spade laid the bony horror open with a single blow. Within was a weird angularity. Half animal, half mechanical, nearly gone with age. Russ crashed it. He reduced the bony mask to an indistinguishable gravel. He had thirty minutes left. When the first shift came down there was nothing to see. The little dugout was filled back in, with AI and his discovery inside. Russ spent several days learning to think and behave normally again. That he made it through those days without going completely berserk is a credit to his stability. He never told. It wouldn't do for men to know their origin. That they were carefully evolved robots, destined to do another creature's bidding. That they had no will, no individuality not ordained by another, older race of beings. It wouldn't do just now. Not until that one final day when everyone would know, when the masters      IF IF  Serial The Road to the Rim Illustrated by Morrow Grimes was baffling againsf an enemy without .  . and an even more deadly foe within! XU A t one time, before differentiation between the mercantile and the figjhting vessel became pronounced, merchant vessels were built to carry a quite considerable armament. Today, the mounting of weapons on a merchantman presents its problems. After his tour of inspection Grimes was obliged to admit that Captain Craven had made cunning use of whatever spaces were available -- but Craven, of course, was a very experienced officer, with long years of service in all classes of spacecraft. Too -- and, perhaps, luckily -- there had been no cannon among the Survey Service ordinance that had been requisitioned, so recoil had not been among the problems. What Has Gone Before -- Ensign John Grimes, Federation Survey Service, was no groundhog. He had shipped across the starways before, and felt ready for anything Space could throw at him -- but this! "This" was merchant vessel Delta Orionis. To begin with, discipline was slack. T p go on with, the officers treated him like a greenhorn. And to end with -- all too many officers were femalel So Grimes resigned himself to a messy cruise, his only consolation that like everything else it would have an ending. But his dreams of planetfall were interrupted by a distress call from another space freighter -- attacked by pirates, and wrecked in midspace. To Grimes it was a welcome change, but just as he was getting ready for action he discovered that Delta Ononis's captain, speeding to the wrecked freighter, was not so much interested in rescuing it as he was in piracy of his own -- with Grimes ordered to take part in it, or face a court-martial for mutiny! When he was finished, Grimes returned to the control room. Craven was still there, and with him was Jane Pentecost. They had, obviously, been discussing something. They could, perhaps, have been quarrelling; the girl's face was flushed, and her expression sullen. "Yes?" snapped the captain. "You've made a good job, sir. She's no cruiser, but she should be able to defend herself." "Thank you. Then we'll be on our way." "Not so fast, sir. I'd like to wire up my control panel properly before we shove off." Craven laughed. "You'll have time, Mr. Grimes. I have still a few last duties to discharge aboard Delta Orionis. But be as quick as you can." He left the compartment, followed by Jane Pentecost. She said, over her shoulder, "I'll send Mr. Baxter to help you, John." T he Rim Worlder must have been somewhere handy; in a matter of seconds he was by Grimes' side, an already open tool satchel at his belt. As he worked, assisting deftly and then taking over as soon as he was sure of what was required, he talked. He said, "Mum wanted to come along, but I soon put the damper on that. But I was bloody amazed to find you here." "Were you?" asked Grimes coldly. 'Too right I was. Never thought you were cut out to be a bloody pirate." He cursed briefly as a spatter of hot metal from his sizzling soldering iron stung his hand. "A IF cold weld'd be better, but it's take too much time. But where was I? Oh, yes. The shock to me system when I saw you cornin' aboard this wagon." "I have my quite valid reasons," Grimes told him stiffly. "You're tellin' me. Just as my Missus had quite valid reasons for wantin' to come with me. But she ain't a gunnery expert." He added piously, "Thank Gawd." "And I am one," said the ensign, trying to change the drift of the conversation before he lost his temper. "Yes, that's right. Just stick to the color code. The blue wiring's the "I know," Baxter told him. "Tell me, is it any good?" "Yes. Of course, if an enemy held us in her beams for any prolonged period we should all be cooked, but as far as it goes it's effective enough." "Hope you're right." He made the last connections, then replaced the panel on the open, shallow box. "Here's yer magic cabinet. Professor. All we have ter see now is what rabbits yer can pull outer the hat." "Plenty, I hope," said Captain Craven, who had returned to Control. "And are you ready now, Mr. Grimes?" "Yes, sir." "Good. Then we'll make it stations. If you will take the co-pilot's chair, while Mr. Baxter goes along to look after his rockets..." "Will do, Skipper," said the engineer, packing away his tools as he pulled himself towards the exit hatch. The ship's intercom came to life, in Jane Pentecost's voice. "Connection between vessels severed, Airlock door closed." "We're still connected," grumbled Craven. " Delia O' Ryan still has her magnetic grapnels out." He spoke into the transceiver microphone, "Epsilon Sextans to Delta Orionis. Cast off, please. Over." " Delta Orionis to Epsilon Sextans . Casting off." Through a viewport Grimes could see one of the bright mooring wires snaking back into its recess. "All clear, Captain." "Thank you, Captain Kennedy." And in a softer voice, "And I hope you keep that handle to your name. Bill." "Thank, you, sir. And all the best, Captain, from all of us, to all of you. And good hunting." "Thanks. And look after the old Delia, Captain. And yourself. Over -- and out. n " Delia Orionis to Epsilon Sextans . Over -- and out " There was something very final, thought Grimes, about those "outs." H e was aware that the ships were drifting slowly apart. Now he could see all of Delta Orionis from his viewport. He could not help recalling the day on which he had first seen her, at the Woomera spaceport. So much had happened since that day. (And so much still to happen -- he hoped.) He heard Craven say into the intercom, "Stand by for temporal precession. We're desynchronizing." Then there was the giddiness and the off-beat whine of the Mannchenn Drive that pierced his eardrums painfully, and beyond the viewports the great, shining shape of the other ship shimmered eerily, was suddenly warped into the likeness of a monstrous Klein flask -- then vanished. Where she had been (where she still was, in Space but not in Time) shone the distant stars, the stars that in this distorted continuum were pulsing spirals of iridescence. "Mannschenn Drive. Cut!" The thin, high keening died abruptly. Outside, the stars were glittering points of light, piercingly bright against the blackness. "Mr. Grimes!" Craven's voice was sharp. "I hope that you take more interest in gunnery than you do in ship handling. In case it has escaped your notice, I would remind you that you are second in command of this vessel and in full charge in the event of my demise." "Sorry, sir," stammered Grimes. Then, suddenly hold, "But I'm not your second in command, sir. I've signed no Articles." "Surprisingly, Craven laughed. "A spacelawyer, yet! Well, Mr. Grimes, as soon as you get this vessel on course we'll attend to the legal formalities. Meanwhile, may I request your close attention to what I am doing?" "You may, sir." "Thereafter he watched and listened carefully. He admired the skill with which Craven turned the ship on her directional gyroscopes until the redglowing target star was centered exactly in the cartwheel sight. He noted that the captain used his reaction drive at a longer period and at a higher rate of acceleration than usual, and, said as much. He was told, the words falling slowly and heavily in the pseudogravity, "They... will... expect... us... to... be... in... a... hurry. We... must... not... disappoint... them Speed built up, fast; but it was a velocity that, in the context of the interstellar distances to be traversed, was no more than a snail's crawl. Then -- and the sudden silence was like a physical blow -- the thunder of the rockets ceased. The screaming roar had died, but the ship was not quiet. The whine of the Mannschenn Drive pervaded her every compartment, vibrated through every member of her structure. She was falling, falling through Space and Time, plunging through the warped continuum to her rendezvous with Death... And whose Death? wondered Grimes. He said, "I should have asked before, sir. But how are... how are they going to find us?" "I don't know," said Craven. "I don't know. But they've found other ships when they've wanted to. They've never used the old, piratical technique of lying in wait at breaking-out points. A Mass Proximity Indicator? Could be. It's theoretically possible. It could be for a ship under Mannschenn Drive what radar is for a ship in normal SpaceTime. Or some means of homing on a temporal precession field? That's more like it, I think, as this IB! vessel was able to escape when she went random. "But if they want us -- and they will -- they'll find us. "And then..." He looked at Grimes, his blue gaze intense. "And then it's up to you, Ensign." 'To all of us," said Grimes. S he was undermanned, was Epsilon Sextans , but she functioned quite efficiently. Craven kept a control room watch himself, and the other two watchkeepers were Grimes and Jane Pentecost. Four on and eight off were their hours of duty -- but there was plenty of work to be done in the off-duty periods. The captain, of course, was in overall charge and was trying to bring his command to the pitch of efficiency necessary for a fighting ship. Jane Pentecost was responsible for meals -- although these, involving little more than the opening of cans, did not take up too much of her time. She had also taken over biochemist's duties, but called now and again upon Grimes It's operation was simple enough, but it was inclined to be temperamental and, now and again, allowed the carbon dioxide concentration to reach a dangerous level. Grimes' main concern was his armament. He could not indulge in a practice shoot -- the expulsion of mass by a ship running under interstellar drive is suicidal; even the employment of laser weapons is dangerous. But there were tests that he could make; there was, in the ship's stores, a spare chart tank that he was able to convert to a battle simulator. Craven helped him, and they set up targets in the tank, glowing points of light that were destroyed by the other sparks that represented Grimes' missiles. After one such drill he said, "You seem to know your stuff, Ensign. Now, what's your grasp of the tactical side of it?" Grimes considered his words before speaking. "Well, sir, we could use a laser with the Drive in operation -- but we haven't got a laser. The pirates have. They can synchronize and just carve us up at leisure. This time, I think they'll go for the interstellar drive engineroom first, so that we can't get away by the use of random precession..." "Yes. That's what they'll do. That's why I have that compartment literally sealed ina cocoon of insulation. Oh, I know it's not effective, but it will give us a second or so of grace. No more." "We can't use our reflective vapor," went on Grimes. "That'd be almost as bad, from our viewpoint, as loosing off a salvo of missiles. But, sir, when this ship was first attacked there mdst have been a considerable loss of mass when the atmosphere was expelled through the rents in the shell plating. The Drive was running. How was it that the ship wasn't flung into some other Space-Time?" "Come, come, Mr. Grimes. You should know the answer to that one. She was held by the powerful temperal precession fields of the drive units of the two pirates. And then, of course, when the engineers managed to set up their random precession there was no mass left to be expelled." "H'm. I see. Or I think I see. Then, in that case, why shouldn't I attacked?" "No. Setter not. Something might just go wrong -- and I don't want to become one of my own ancestors." "Then... ?" "You tell me, Mr. Grimes." "Cut our Drive... ? Break out into the normal continuum? Yes, it could work." He was becoming enthusiastic. "And then we shall be waiting for them, with our missile batteries, when they break out." "We'll make an admiral of you yet, young Grimes." W ith watchkeeping and with offwatch duties time was fully occupied. And yet there was something missing. There was, Grimes said to himself, one hell of a lot missing. Jane Pentecost had her own watch to keep and her ovn jobs to do when she was not in the control room, but she and Grimes had some free time to share. But they did not share it. He broached the subject when he was running a test on the artificial I was hoping I'd see more of you." "You're seeing plenty of me." "But not enough." "Don't be tiresome," she snapped. Then, in a softer voice, "Don't..." "... spoil everything?" he finished for her sardonically. "You know what I mean," she told him coldly. "Do I?" He groped for words. "Jane... Damn it all, I hoped... After what happened aboard the Delia O'Ryan..." "That," she said, "was different." Her face flushed. "I tell you this, Grimes, if I'd known that you were coming along with us it never would have happened." "No?" "NO!" "Even so... I don't see any reason why we shouldn't..." "Why we shouldn't what? Oh, all right, all right. I know what you mean. But it's out of the question. I'll tell you why, in words of one syllable. In a ship such as Delia Orionis descreet fun and games were permissable, even desirable. No shortage of women -- both crew and passengers. Here, I'm the only female. Your friend Mr. Baxter has been sniffing after me. And Mr. Wolverton the Interstellar Chief. And his Second. And even, bereaved though he is, the Bearded Bastard. He might get away with it -- the privileges of rank and all that. But nobody else would, most certainly not yourself. How long would it remain a secret?" "I suppose you're right, but..." "But what? Oh John, John, you are a stubborn cow..." "Cow?" "Sorry. Just Rimworldsese. Applicable to both sexes." "Talking of sex..." "Oh, shut m#" "I'll not." She looked desirable standing there. A small smudge of IF grease on her flushed cheek was like a heauty spot. "I'll not," he said again. She was close to him, and he was acutely conscious that beneath the thin uniform shirt and the short shorts there was only Jane. He had only to reach out. He did so. At first she did not resist -- and then she exploded into a frenzy of activity. Before he could let go of her a hard, rough hand closed on his shirt collar and yanked him backwards. "Keep yer dirty paws off her!" snarled a voice. It was Baxter's. "Keep yer dirty paws off her! If we didn't want yer ter let off the fireworks I'd do yer, here an' now." "And keep your dirty paws off me!" yelped Grimes. It was meant to be an authentic quarterback bark, but it didn't come out that way. "Let him go, Mr. Baxter," said Jane, adding, "please." "Oh, orl right. If yer says so. But I still think we should run him up ter the Old Man." "No. Better not." She addressed Grimes, 'Thank you for your help thank you, Mr. Baxter, for your help. It's time that I started looking after the next meal." S he left, not hastily, but not taking her time about it either. When she was gone Baxter released Grimes. Clumsily the ensign turned himself around, with a wild flailing motion. Unarmed combat had never been his specialty, especially unarmed combat in Free Fall conditions. But he knew that he had to fight, and the rage and the humiliation boiling up in him made it certain that he would do some damage. But Baxter was laughing, showing all his ugly, yellow teeth. "Come orf it, Admiral! An' if we must have a set-to -- not in here. Just smash the UV projector -- an' bang goes our air conditioning! Simmer down, mate. Simmer down!" Grimes simmered down, slowly. "But I thought you were out for my blood, Mr. Baxter." "Have ter put in a show for the Sheilas now an' again. Shouldn't mind puttin' on another kind o' show with her. But not in public, like you was goin' to. But it won't do. It just won't do, not until the shootin' is over, anyhow. An' even then... So, Admiral, it's paws off as far as you're concerned. An' as far as I'm concerned, an # the Chief Time Twister, an' his sidekick. But, if yer can spare the time, I propose we continue the conversation in my palatial dogbox." Grimes should have felt uneasy as he followed the engineer to his accommodation -- but, oddly enough, he did not. The rough friendliness just could not be the prelude to a beating up. Nor was it. "Come in," said Baxter, pulling his sliding door to one side. "Now yer see how the poor live. This is..." "No," protested Grimes. "No." "Why? I was only goin' to say that this is me 'umble 'umpy. An I'd like yer to meet a coupla friends o' mine, and there's more where they came from." The "friends" were two drinking bulbs. Each bore proudly no less than four stars on its label. The brandy was smooth, smooth and potent. Grimes sipped appreciatively. "I didn't know that we had any of this aboard Delia O'Ryan... "An' nor did we. You'll not find this tipple in the bar stores of any merchantman, nor aboard any of yer precious Survey Service wagons. Space stock for the emperor's yacht, this is. So here's ter the Waverly taxpayers!" "But where did you get this from, Mr. Baxter?' "Where d'yer think? I've had a good fossick around the holds o' this old bitch, an' there's quite a few things too good to let fall inter the hands o' those bloody Waldegrenese." "But that's pillage." "It's common sense. Mind yer, I doubt if Captain Craven would approve, so yer'd better chew some dry tea -- that's in the cargo too -- before yer see the Old Man again. All the Weedin' same, it's no worse than him borrowing your Survey Services stores an' weapons from his cargo." "I suppose it's not," admitted Grimes. All the same, he still felt guilty when he was offered a second bulb of the luxurious spirit. But he did not refuse it. H e was a good fossicker, was Baxter. Two days later, as measured by the ship's chronometer, he was waiting for Grimes as he came off watch. "Ensign," he announced without preamble, "I've found somethin' in the cargo." "Something new, you mean?" asked Grimes coldly. He still did not approve of pillage, although he had shared the spoils. "Somethin' that shouldn't be there. Somethin that's up your alley, I think." "There's no reason why equipment for the Waverley Navy shouldn't be among the cargo." "True enough. But it wouldn't be in a case with Beluga Caviar stencilled all over it. I thought I'd found somethin' to go with the vodka I half inched... But it won't." "Then what is it?" "Come and see." "All right." Briefly Grimes wondered if he should tell Craven, who had relieved the watch, then decided against it. The Old Man would probably insist on making an investigation in person, in which case Grimes would have to pass another boring hour or so in the control room. The two men made their way aft, until they came to the forward bulkhead of the cargo spaces. Normally these would have been pressurized, but, when Epsilon Sextans' atmosphere had been replenished from Delta Orionis' emergency cylinders, it had seemed pointless to waste precious oxygen. So access was through an airlock, outside which was a locker , in which suits, ready for immediate use, were stowed. Grimes and Baxter suited up, helping each other as required. Then the engineer put out his gloved hand IF to the airlock controls. Grimes stopped him , bent forward to touch helmets. He said, "Hang on. If we open the door it'll register on the panel in Control." "Like hell it will!" came the reply. "Most of the wiring was slashed through during the piracy. I fixed the hold lights -- but damn all else." Grimes, through the transparency of the visors, saw the other's grin. "For obvious reasons." G rimes shrugged, released Baxter. Everything was so irregular that one more, relatively minor regularity hardly mattered. With the engineer he squeezed into the small airlock, waited until the atmosphere it held had been pumped back into the body of the ship, then he himself pushed the button that actuated the mechanism of the inner valve. This was not the first time that he had been in the cargo spaces. Some of the weapons "borrowed" from Delta Orionis  cargo had been mounted in the holds. When he had made his inspections, it had never occurred to him that the opening and closing of the airlock door had not registered in Control. He stood back and let Baxter lead the way. The engineer pulled himself to one of the bins in which he had been foraging. The door to it was still open, and crates and cartons disturbed by the pillager floated untidily around the opening. "You'll have to get all this restowed," said Grimes sharply. "If we have to accelerate there'll be damage." But he might as well have been speaking to himself. The suit radios had not been switched on; and, in any case, there was no air to carry sound waves, however faintly. Baxter had scrambled into the open bin. Grimes followed him, saw him standing by the case, its top prized open, that carried the letterBaxter beckoned. Grimes edged his way past the drifting packages to join him. There was something in the case, but it was not jars or cans of salted sturgeon's eggs. It looked at first like a glittering, complex piece of mobile statuary, although it was motionless. It was a metal mismating of gyroscope and Moebius Strip. It did not look wrong -- nothing functional ever does -- but it did look odd. Grimes was standing hard against Baxter now. Their helmets were touching. He asked, "What... what is it?" "I was hopin' you'd be able ter tell me, Admiral." Then, as Grimes extended a cautious hand into the case, "Careful! Don't touch noth" 'Cause this bloody lot was booby-trapped, that's why. See that busted spring? An' see that cylinder in the comer? That's a thermite bomb, or somethin' worse. Shoulda gone orf when I pried the lid up, but luckily I buggered the firin' mechanism with me bar when I stuck it inter just the right crack. But I think it's deloused now." "It looks as though it -- whatever it is -- is hooked up to one of the electrical circuits... " "Yair. An' it's not the lightin' circuit. Must be the airlock indicators..." "Must be." As a weapons expert, Grimes could see that the thermite bomb -- if that was what it was -- had been rendered ineffective. It hadn't been an elaborate trap, merely a device that would destroy the... the thing if the case housing it were tampered with. Baxter had been lucky, and, presumably, those who had planted the -- what the hell was it? -- unlucky. With a cautious finger he nudged the rotor. It turned, and he was reminded of those other rotors, the ever-precessing gyroscopes of the Mannschenn Drive. H e remembered, then. He remembered a series of lectures at the Academy on future weapons and navigational devices. Having decided upon his specialty he had been really interested only in the weapons. But there had been talk of a man called Carlotti, who was trying to develop a device that would induce temporal precession in radio signals, so that instantaneous communications would be possible throughout the galaxy without ships and shore stations having to rely upon the tempermental and unreliable telepaths. And beacons, employing the same principle, could be used for navigation by ships under interstellar drive. So this could be one of Signor Carlotti's gadgets. Perhaps the Empire of Waverly had offered him a higher price than had the Federatrial spies? But Epsilon Sextans' possessed excellent strongrooms for the carriage of special cargo. And why was the thing wired up? Suddenly it was obvious. Somehow, the Duchy of Waldgren possessed Carlotti equipment. This... this beacon had been transmitting, unknown to anybody aboard the ship, during the voyage. The frigates had homed upon her. When, inadvertently, its power supply had been shut off the victim, using random precession, had been able to make her escape. So, if the pirates were to make a second attack it would have to be reactivated. "We'd better throw this lot on to the Old Man's plate," said Grimes. C aptain Craven listened intently as Grimes and Baxter told their story. They feared that he was going to lose his temper when told of the engineer's cargo pillaging, but he only remarked, in a dry voice, "I guess that the consignees can afford to compensate us for our time and trouble. Even so, Mr. Baxter, this practice must cease." And then, when Grimes described the device, he said, "Yes, I have heard of Carlotti's work. But I didn't think that he'd got as far as a working model. But the thing could have been developed by Waldegrenese scientists from the data in his published papers." IF "So you agree, sir, that it is some kind of beacon upon which the pirates can home?" "What else can it be? Now, gentlemen, we find ourselves upon the horns of a dilemna. If we don't reactivate the bloody thing, the chances are that we shall deliver ship and cargo intact, at no great risk to ourselves, and to the joy of the underwriters. If we do reactivate it, then the chances are that we shall have. to fight our way through. And there's no guarantee that we shall be on the winning side." "I was shanghaied away here as a gunnery officer," said Grimes. "Shanghaied -- or press-ganged?" queried Craven. "The technique was more that of the shanghai," Grimes told him. "Indeed?" Craven's voice was cold. "But no matter. You're here, and you're one of my senior officers. What course do you recommend?" Grimes replied slowly and carefully. "Legally speaking, what we're involved in isn't a war. But it is a war, of sorts. And a just war. And, in any case, the master of a merchant vessel has the legal right to resist illegal seizure or destruction by force of arms. Of course, we have to consider the illegal circumstances attending the arming of this ship..." "Let's not get bogged down in legalities and illegalities," said Craven, with a touch of impatience. "The lawyers can sort it all out eventually. Do we reactivate?" "Yes," said Grimes. "And you, Mr. Baxter. What do you say?" "We Rim Worlders just don't like Waldegren. I'll not pass up a chance ter kick the bastards in the teeth. Reactivate, Skipper." "Good. And how long will it take you to make good the circuit the beacon's spliced in to?" "Twenty minutes. No more. But d'yer think we oughter put the whole thing to the vote first?" "No. Everybody here was under the impression that we should be fighting. With one possible exception, they're all volunteers." "But I did volunteer, sir," objected Grimes. "Make your mind up, Ensign. You were telling me just now that you'd been shanghaied. All right. Everybody is a volunteer. So we just rebait the trap without any more yapping about it. Let me know as soon as you're ready, Mr. Baxter. Will you require assistance?" "I'll manage. Skipper." W hen he was gone Craven turned to Grimes. "You realize, Ensign, that this puts me in rather a jam. Let me put it this way. Am I justified in risking the lives of all my officers to carry out a private act of vengeance?" "I think that you can take Mr. Baxter and myself as being representative, sir. As for the others -- Miss Pentecost's a Rim Worlder, and her views will coincide with Baxter's. And the original crew members, they're just as entitled to vengeance as you are. I know that if I'd been an officer of this ship at the time of the original piracy, I'd enjoy getting revenge." IF " You would. Yes. Even if, as now, an alternative suddenly presented itself. But..." "I honestly don't see what you're worrying about, sir." "You wouldn't. It's a matter of training. But, for all my reserve commission, I'm a merchant officer. Oh, I know that any military commander is as responsible for the lives of his men as I am, but he also knows that those lives, like his own, are expendable." "It's a pity that Baxter found the beacon," said Grimes. "It is -- and it isn't. If he hadn't found it, I shouldn't be soliloquizing like a spacefaring Hamlet. And we should have brought the ship in intact and, like as not, all been awarded Lloyd's Medal. On the other hand, if he hadn't found it we -- or I? -- should have lost our chance of getting back at the pirates." "You aren't Hamlet, sir." Grimes spoke with the assurance of the very young, but in later years he was to remember his words and to feel neither shame nor embarrassment, but only a twinge of envy and regret. "You aren't Hamlet. You're Captain Craven, Master under God. Please, sir, for once in your life do something you want to do and argue it out later with the Almighty if you must." "And with my Owners?" Grimes couldn't be sure, but he thought he saw something like a smile beneath Craven's full beard. "And with my Owners?" "Master Astronauts' certificates aren't all that common, sir. If the worst comes to the worst, there's always the Rim Worlds. The Sundowner Line, isn't it?" "I'd already thought of that." There was no doubt about it. Craven was smiling. "After all that you've been saying to me, I'm surprised that you don't join forces with our Miss Pentecost." "Go out to the Rim, sir? Hardly." "Don't be so bloody sure, young Grimes. Anyhow, you'd better get Miss Pentecost up here now so that we can see how friend Baxter is getting on. There's always the risk that he'll find a few more things among the cargo that aren't nailed down." XV G rimes called Jane Pentecost on the intercom; after a minute or so she made her appearance in Control. Craven told her what Baxter had discovered and what he. Craven, intended doing about it. She nodded in emphatic agreement. "Yes," she said. "The thing's here to be used -- and to be used the way that we want to use it. But I don't think that we should make it public." "Why not, Miss Pentecost?" "I could be wrong, Captain, but in my opinion there are quite a few people in this ship who'd welcome the chance of wriggling out of being the cheese in the mousetrap. When there's no alternative they're brave enough. When there's a face-saving alternative..." Baxter's voice came from the intercom speaker. "Chief Reaction Drive Engineer to Control. Repairs completed. Check your panel." Yes, the circuit had been restored. The buzzer sounded, and on the board a glowing red light showed that the outer door to the cargo hold airlock was open. How much of the failure of the indicators was due to battle damage and how much to Baxter's sabotage would never be known. Craven's heavy eyebrows lifted ironically as he looked at Grimes, and Grimes shrugged in reply. Then, the watch handed over to the girl, the two men made their way aft from the control room. Outside the airlock they found Baxter, already suited up save for his helmet. There had been only two suits in the locker, and the engineer had brought another one along for the captain from somewhere. The little compartment would take only two men at a time. Craven and Grimes went through first, then were joined by Baxter. There was no longer any need for secrecy, so the suit radios were switched on. The only person likely to be listening in was Jane Pentecost in the control room. Grimes heard Craven muttering angrily as they passed packages that obviously had been opened and pillaged, but the captain did no more than mutter. He possessed the sense of proportion so essential to his rank, and a few bulbs of looted liquor were, after all, relatively unimportant. They came to the bin in which the case allegedly containing caviar had been stowed, in which some secret agent of Waldegren had tapped the circuit supplying power to the beacon. Inside the box the gleaming machine was still motionless. Craven said, "I thought you told me the current was on." "It is, Skipper." Baxter's voice was pained. "But I switched it off before I fixed the wiring." He extended a gtoved finger, pressed a little toggle switch. And nothing happened. "Just a nudge..." whispered the engineer. The oddly convoluted rotor turned easily enough, and as it rotated it seemed almost to vanish in a mist of its own generating -- a mist that was no more than an optical illusion. It rotated, slowed and stopped. Baxter cast aspersions upon the legitimacy of its parenthood. Then, still grumbling, he produced a voltmeter. Any doubt that power was being delivered to the machine was soon dispelled. Power was being delivered -- but it was not being used. "Well, Mr. Baxter?" demanded Craven. "I'm a fair mechanic, Skipper, but I'm no physicist..." "Mr. Grimes?" "I specialized in gunnery, sir." Craven snorted, the sound unpleasantly loud in the helmetphones. He said sarcastically, "I'm only the captain, but I have some smatterings of Mannschenn Drive maintenance and operation. This thing isn't a Mannschenn Drive unit -- but it's first cousin to one. As I recall it, some of the earlier models couldn't be started without the employment of a small, temporal precession field initiator. Furthermore, these initiators, although there is ne IF longer any need for them, are still carried as engineroom spares in the Commission's ships." "And that gadget'll start this little time-twister, Skipper?" asked the engineer. "It might, Mr. Baxter. It might. So, Mr. Grimes, will yon go along to the Mannsohenn Drive room and ask Mr. Wolverton for his initiator? No need to tell him what it's for." T X #olverton was in the MannsV V chenn Drive room, staring moodily at the gleaming complexity of processing rotors. Grimes hastily averted his eyes from the machine. It frightened him, and he didn't mind admitting it. And there was something about the engineer that frightened him, too. The tall, cadaverous man, with the thin strands of black hair drawn over his gleaming skull, looked more like a seer than a ship's officer, looked like a fortune-teller peering into the depths of an uncannily mobile crystal ball. He was mumbling, his voice a low, guttural muttering against the thin, high keening of his tumbling gyroscopes. The ensign at last was able to make out the words. "Divergent tracks... To be, or not to be, that is the question..." Grimes thought, This ship should be renamed the "State of Denmark." There s something rotten here. He said sharply, "Mr. Wolverton!" Slowly the Chief Interstellar Drive Engineer turned his head, stared at Grimes unseeingly at first. His eyes came into focus. He whispered, "It's you." "Who else, Chief? Captain's compliments, and he'd like to borrow your temporal precession field initiator" "He would, would he? And why?" "An... An experiment..." said Grimes, with partial truth. The fewer people who knew the whole truth the better. "An experiment?" "Yes. If you wouldn't mind letting me have it now, Chief..." "But it's engineroom stores. It's the Commission's stores. It's a very delicate instrument. It is against the Commission's regulations to issue it to unqualified personnel." "But Mr. Baxter is helping with the... experiment." "Mr. Baxter! That letter-off of cheap fireworks. That... Rim Runner! No. No. Mr. Baxter is not qualified personnel." "Then perhaps you could lend us one of your juniors..." "No. No, I would not trust them. Why do you think that I am here, Mr. Grimes? Why do you think that I have been tied to my gyroscopes? Literally tied, almost. If I had not been here, keeping my own watch, when the pirates struck, this ship would have been utterly destroyed. I know the Drive, Mr. Grimes..." He seized the ensign's arm, turned him so that he was facing the gleaming, spinning rotors, endlessly precessing, endlessly tumbling down the dark dimensions, shimmering on the very verge of invisibility. Grimes wanted to close his eyes, but could not. "I know the Drive, Mr. Grimes. It talks to me. It shows me things. It warned me, that Time, that Death was waiting for this ship and all in her. And now it warns me again. But there is a... a divergence..." "Mr. Wolverton, please! There is not much time." "But what is Time, Mr. Grimes? What is Time? What do you know of the forking World Lines, the Worlds of If? I've lived with this machine, Mr. Grimes. It's part of me -- or am I part of it? Let me show you." His grip on the ensign's arm was painful. "Let me show you. Lo#k. Look into the machine. What do you see?" G rimes saw only shadowy, shimmering wheels and a formless darkness. "I see you, Mr. Grimes," almost sang the engineer. "I see you -- but not as you will be. But as you might be. I see you on the bridge of your flagship, your gold uniform gold-encrusted and medal-bedecked, with commodores and captains saluting you and calling you 'sir'... But I see you, too, in the control room of a shabby little ship, a single ship, in shabby clothes, and the badge on your cap is one that I have never seen, is one that does not yet exist..." "Mr. Wolverton! That initiator. Please !" "But there is no hurry, Mr. Grimes. There is no hurry. There is Time enough for everything -- for that is, that has been, that will be and that might be. There is Time to decide, Mr. Grimes. There is Time to decide whether or not we make our second rendezvous with Death. The initiator is part of it all, Mr. Grimes, is it not? The initiator is the signpost that stands at the forking of the track. You weren't here, Mr. Grimes, when the pirates struck. You did not hear the screams, you did not smell the stench of burning flesh. You're young and foolhardy; all that you want is the chance to play with your toys. And all that I want, now that I know that alternatives exist, is the chance to bring this ship to her destination with no further loss of life." "Mr. Wolverton..." "Mr. Grimes!" It was Captain Craven's voice, and he was in a vile temper. "What the hell do you think you're playing at?" "Captain," said Wolverton, "I can no more than guess at what you intend to do, but I have decided not to help you to do it." "Then give us the initiator. We'll work it ourselves." "No, Captain." "Give me the initiator, Mr. Wolverton. That's an order." "A lawful command, Captain? As lawful as those commands of yours that armed this ship?" "Hold him, Grimes!" (And who's supposed to be holding whom? wondered the ensign. Wolverton's grip was still tight and painful on his arm.) "Hold him, while I look in the storeroom!" "Captain! Get away from that door! You've no right..." Wolverton relinquished his hold on Grimes, who, twisting with an agility that surprised himself, contrived to get both arms about the engineer's waist. In the scuffle the IF contact between their magnetic shoe soles and the deck was broken. They hung there, helpless, with no solidity within reach of their flailing limbs to give them purchase. They hung there, clinging to each other, but more in hate than in love. Wolverton's back was to the machine; he could not see, as could Grimes, that there was an indraught of air into the spinning, shimmering complexity. Grimes felt the beginnings of panic, more than the mere beginnings. There were no guardrails; he had read somewhere why this was so, but the abstruse physics involved did not matter -- all that mattered was there was nothing to prevent him and Wolverton from being drawn into the dimensiontwisting field of the thing. He freed, somehow, his right hand, and with an effort that sprained his shoulder brought it round in a sweeping, clumsy and brutal blow to the engineer's face. Wolverton screamed, and his grip relaxed. Violently, Grimes shoved away. Craven emerged from the storeroom, tarrying something that looked like a child's toy gyroscope in a transparent box. He looked around for Grimes and Wolverton at deck level and then, his face puzzled, looked up. He did not, as Grimes had been doing for some seconds, vomit; but his face, behind the beard, went chalk-white. He put out his free hand and, not ungently, pulled Grimes to the deck. He said, his voice little more than a whisper, "There's nothing we can do. Nothing, except to get a pistol and finish him off... " Grimes forced himself to look again at the slimy, bloody obscenity that was a man turned, literally, inside-out -- heart (if it was the heart) still beating, intestines still writhing. After a spasm of painful retching he gasped, "He kept his own rendezvous with Death!" I t was Grimes, who went for a pistol, fetching a Minetti from the weapons rack that he, himself, had fitted up in the control room. He told Jane Pentecost what he wanted it for. He made no secret of either his horror or his self-blame. She said, "But this is a war, even if it's an undeclared one. And in a war you must expect casualties." "Yes, yes. I know. But  pushed him into the field." "It was an accident. It could easily have been you instead of him. And I'm glad that it wasn't." "But you haven't seen..." "And I don't want to." Her voice hardened. "Meanwhile, get the hell out of here and back to the Mannschenn Drive room. If you're so sorry for the poor bastard, do something about putting him out of his misery." "But..." "Don't be such a bloody coward, Grimes." The words hurt, mainly because there was so much truth in them. Grimes was dreading having to see again the twisted obscenity that had once been a man, was dreading having to breathe again the atmosphere of that compartment, heavy with the reek of hot oil, blood and faecal matter. But, with the exception of Craven, he was the only person in the ship trained in the arts of war. He recalled the words of a Surgeon-Commander who had lectured the midshipmen of his course on the handling of battle casualties and recalled, too, how afterwards the young gentlemen had sneered at the bloodthirstiness of one who was supposed to be a professional healer. " When one of your shipmates has really had it, even if he's your best friend, don't hesitate a moment about finishing him off . You'll be doing him a kindness . Finish him off -- and get him out of sight . Shockingly wounded men are bad for morale." "What are you waiting for?" demanded Jane Pentecost. "Do you want me to do it?" Grimes said nothing, just hurried out of the control room. C raven was still in the Mannschenn Drive room when Grimes got back there. With him were two of the interstellar drive engineers -- the second and the third. Their faces were deathly white, and the second's prominent Adam's apple was working spasmodically, but about them was an air of grim resolution. The third -- how could he bear to touch that slimy, reeking mess? -- had hold of the thing's shoulders (white, fantastically contorted bone gleaming pallidly among red convolutions of flesh) while the second, a heavy spanner in his hand, was trying to decide where to strike. The captain saw Grimes. "Give me that!" he snapped and snatched the pistol from the ensign's hand. Then, to the engineers, "Stand back!" The little weapon rattled sharply and viciously. To the other smells was added the acridity of burned propellant. What had been Wolverton was driven to the deck by the impact of the tiny projectiles and adhered there. There was surprisingly little blood, but the body had stopped twitching. Craven handed the empty pistol "You stay here, Mr. Grimes, and organize the disposal of the body." He went to the locker where he had put the initiator, took out the little instrument and, carrying it carefully, left the Mannschenn Drive room. Neither of the engineers, still staring with horrified fascination at their dead chief, noticed. "How... How did it happen?" asked the second, after a long silence. "He fell into the field," said Grimes. "But how? How? He was always getting on to us about being careless and telling us what was liable to happen to us, and now it's happened to him... " "That's the way of it," contributed the third, with a certain glum satisfaction. "Don't do as I do, do as I say..." "Have you a box?" asked Grimes. "A box?" echoed the Second. "Yes. A box." Now that he was doing something, doing something useful, Grimes was beginning to feel a little better. "We can't have a funIF eral while we're running under interstellar drive. We have to... to put him somewhere." Out of sight, he mentally added. "That chest of spares?" muttered the second. "Just the right size," agreed the third. "Then get it," ordered Grimes. The chest, once the spares and their packing had been removed and stowed elsewhere, was just the right size. Its dimensions were almost those of a coffin. It was made of steel, its bottom magnetized, and remained where placed on the deck while the three men, fighting down their recurring nausea, handled the body into it. All of them sighed audibly in relief when, at last, the close-fitting lid covered the remains. Finally, the third ran a welding torch around the joint. As he was doing so the lights flickered. Was it because of the torch? wondered Grimes. Or was it because the beacon in the hold had been reactivated? Somehow he could not feel any real interest. C leaned up after a fashion, but still feeling physically ill, he was back in the control room. Craven was there, and Baxter was with him. Jane Pentecost had been relieved so that she could attend to her duties in the galley. "Not that  feel like a meal," the captain had said. "And I doubt very much that Mr. Grimes does either." "Takes a lot ter put me off me tucker," the engineer declared cheerfully as he worked on the airlock door's tell-tale panel. "You didn't see Mr. Wolverton, Mr. Baxter," said Craven grimly. "No, Skipper. An' I'm not sorry I didn't." He paused in ihis work to rummage in his tool bag. He produced bulbs of brandy. "But I thought you an' the ensign might need some o' this." Craven started to say something about cargo pillage, then changed his mind. He accepted the liquor without further quibbling. The three men sipped in silence. Baxter carelessly tossed his squeezed empty bulb aside, continued with what he had been doing. The Captain said to Grimes, "Yes. We got the bloody thing started again. And we've improved upon it." "Improved upon it, sir? How?" "It's no jonger only a beacon. It's also an alarm. As soon as it picks up the radiation from the similiar pieces of apparatus aboard the enemy frigates, the buzzer that Mr. Baxter is fitting up will sound; the red light will flash. We shall have ample warning... " "She'll be right, Skipper," said the engineer. "Thank you, Mr. Baxter. And now, if you don't mind, I'd like a few words in private with Mr. Grimes." "Don't be too hard on him, Skipper." Baxter winked cheerfully at Grimes and left the control room. "Mr. Grimes," Craven's voice was grave. "Mr. Grimes, today, early in your career, you have learned a lesson that some of us never have to learn. You have killed a man -- yes, yes, I know that it was not intentional -- and you have been privileged to. see the end result of your actions. "There are many of us who are, who have been killers. There are many of us who have pushed buttons but who have never seen what happens at the other end of the trajectory. Perhaps people slaughtered by explosion or, laser beam do not look quite so horrible as Wolverton -- but, I assure you, they often die as slowly and as agonizingly "You know, now, what violent death looks like, Mr. Grimes. push your buttons, to play pretty tunes on your battle organ?" "And what did the bodies in this ship look like, Captain?" asked Grimes, Then, remembering that one of the bodies had belonged to the woman whom Craven had loved, he bitterly regretted having asked the question. "Not pretty," whispered Captain Craven. "Not at all pretty." "I'll push your button for you," Grimes told him. And for Jane Pentecost , he thought. And for the others . And for myself? The worst of it all is that l haven't got the excuse of say ing that it's what I'm paid for... D own the dark dimensions fell Epsilon Sextans, falling free through the warped continuum. But aboard the ship Time still possessed meaning, the master chronometer still ticked away the seconds, minutes and hours; the little, manmade world was still faithful to that puissant god of scientific intelligences everywhere in the Universe -- the Clock. Watch succeeded watch in the control room and engineroom. Meals were prepared and served on time. There was even, towards the end, a revival of offduty social activities; a chess set was discovered and brought into use, playing cards were produced and a bridge school was formed. But there was one social activity that, to Grimes' disappointment, was not resumed -- the oldest social activity of them all. More than once he pleaded with Jane, and every time she laughed away his pleas. He insisted; and that made matters worse. He was (as he said) the donkey who had been allowed one nibble of the carrot and who could not understand why the carrot had been snatched away. He was (she said) a donkey. Period. He should have guessed what was happening, but he did not. He was young and inexperienced in the ways of women -- of men and women. He just could not imagine that Jane would spare more than a casual glance for any of the engineers or for the flabby, pasty youth who was the psionic radio officer. And in this he was right. Epsilon Sextans was, for a ship of her class, very well equipped. In addition to the usual intercom system she was fitted with closed-circuit television. In the event of emergency the captain or watch officer, by the flip of a switch, could see IF what was happening in any compartment of the vessel. Over the control panel, in big, red letters, what the penalty for improper use of the apparatus in the Merchant Navy, hut he did know that in the Survey Service officers had been cashiered and given an ignominious discharge for this offense. The more cramped and crowded the conditions in which men -- and women -- work and live, the more precious is privacy. It was Grimes' watch. When he had taken over, all the indications were that it would be as boring as all the previous watches. All that was required of the watchkeeper was that he stay awake. Grimes stayed awake. He had brought a book with him into Control, hiding it inside his uniform shirt, and it held his attention for a while. Then, following the example of generations of watch officers, he set up a game of three-dimensional noughts and crosses in the chart tank and played, right hand against left. The left hand was doing remarkably well when a buzzer sounded. The ensign immediately cleared the tank and looked at the airlock indicator panel. But there were no lights on the board, and he realized that it was the intercom telephone. ( # Control, " he said into his micv# rophone. "P.R.O. here. I... I'm not happy, Mr. Grimes..." "Who is?" quipped Grimes. "I... I feel... smothered..." "Something wrong with the ventilation in your shack?" "No. NO. It's like... it's like a heavy blanket soaked in ice-cold water. You can't move... You can't shout... You can't hear... It's like it was before..." "Before what?" snapped Grimes, and then as the other buzzer sounded, as the additional red light flashed on the tell-tale panel, he realized the stupidity of his question. At once he pressed the alarm button. This was it, at last. Action Stations! Throughout the ship the bells ing. Hastily Grimes vacated the pilot's chair, slipped into the one from which he could control his weapons and from which he could reach out to other controls. But where was the Old Man? Where was Captain Craven? This was the moment that he had longed for, this was the consummation toward which all his illegalities had been directed. Damn it all, where was he? Perhaps he was floating stunned in his quarters, starting up hurriedly from sleep he could have struck his head upon some projection, knocked himself out. If this were the case he, Grimes, would have to call Jane from her own battle station in the Sick Bay to render first aid. But there was no time to lose. The ensign reached out, flipped the switches that would give him the picture of the interior of the captain's accommodation. The screen brightened, came alive. Grimes stared at the luminous presentation in sick horror. Luminous it was with that peculiar luminosity of naked female flesh. Jane was dressing herself with almost ludicrous haste. Of the Captain there was no sign -- on the screen. Craven snarled, with cold ferocity, "You damned, sneaking prurrient puppy!" Then, in a louder voice, "Switch that bloody thing off! I'll deal with you when this is over." "But, sir... " "Switch it off, I say!" Cheeks burning, Grimes obeyed. Then he sat staring at his armament controls, fighting down his nausea, his physical sickness. Somehow he found time to think bitterly, So I was the knight , all set and ready to slay dragons for his lady. And all the time, she... He did not finish the thought. He heard a voice calling over the intercom, one of the engineers. "Captain, they're trying to lock on! Same as last time. Random precession, sir?" "No. Cut the Drive!" "Cut the Drive?" incredulously. "You heard me. Cut!" Then, to Grimes, And what the hell are you waiting for?" HPhe ensign knew what he had to X do; he had rehearsed it often enough. He did it. From the nozzles that pierced the outer shell spouted the cloud of reflective vapor, just in time, just as the enemy's lasers lashed out at their target. It seemed that the ship's internal temperature rose suddenly and sharply -- although that could have been illusion, festered by the sight IF of the fiery fog glimpsed through the viewports before the armored shutters slammed home. There were targets now on Grimes' fire-control screen, two of them, but he could not loose a missile 'Until the tumbling rotors of the Drive had ceased to spin, to process. The use of the antilaser-vapor screen had been risky enough. Abruptly the screens went blank, which signified that the temporal precession rates of hunted and hunters were no longer in synchronization, that the fields of the pirates had failed to lock on. In normal Space-Time there would be no need to synchronize, and then the hunters would discover that their quarry had claws and teeth. Aboard Epsilon Sextans the keening note of the Drive died to a whisper, a barely audible murmur, fading to silence. There was the inevitable second or so of utter disorientation when, as soon as it was safe, the engineers braked the gyroscopes. Craven acted without hesitation, giving his ship headway and acceleration with Inertial Drive. He was not running -- although this was the impression that he wished to convey. He was inviting rather than evading combat; but if the Waldegren captains choose to assume that Epsilon Sextans was, as she had been, an unarmed merchantman (after all, the anti-laser screen could have been jury rigged from normal ship's stores and equipment) taking evasive action, that was their error of judgment. Grimes watched his screen intently. Suddenly the two blips reappeared, astern, all of a hundred kilometers distant, but closing. This he reported. "Stand by for acceleration!" ordered Craven. "Reaction Drive -- stand by!" It was all part of the pattern -- a last, frantic squandering of reaction mass that could do more than delay the inevitable. It would look good from the enemy control rooms. "Reaction Drive ready!" reported Baxter over the intercom. "Thank you. Captain to all hands, there will be no count-down. Fire!" F rom the corner of his eye Grimes saw Craven's hand slam down the key. Acceleration slammed him brutally back into his chair. There was a roar that was more like an explosion than a normal rocket firing, a shock that jarred and rattled every fitting in the control room. Craven remarked quietly, "That must have looked convincing enough -- but I hope that Baxter didn't really blow a chamber..." There was only the Internal Drive now, and the two blips that, very briefly, had fallen astern, were now creeping up again, closing the range. "Anti-laser," ordered Craven briefly. "But, sir, it'll just be wasting it. They'll not be using laser outside twenty kilometers." "They'll not be expecting a gunnery specialist aboard this wagon, either." Once again the nozzles spouted, pouring out a cloud that fell rapidly astern of the running ship. Craven looked at his own screens, frowned, muttered, "They're taking their bloody time about it... Probably low on reaction mass themselves..." He turned to Grimes. "I think a slight breakdown of the I.D.'s in order." "As you say, sir." The ensign could not forget having been called a damned, sneaking, prurient puppy. Let Craven make his own decisions. "Stand by for deceleration," ordered the captain quietly. The steady throbbing of the Inertial Drive faltered, faltered and ceased. There were two long minutes of Free Fall, of weightlessness, and then, for five minutes, the Drive came back into operation. A breakdown , the enemy must be thinking. A breakdown , and the engineers sweating and striving to get the ship under way again . A breakdown... It would not be surprising after the mauling she had endured at the first encounter. She hung there, and although her actual speed could be measured in kilometers a second she was, insofar as her accelerating pursuers were concerned, relatively motionless. Grimes wondered why the warships did not use their radio, did not demand surrender. Epsilon Sextans ' transceiver was switched on, but no sound issued from the speaker but the hiss and crackle of interstellar static. He voiced his puzzlement to Craven. Craven laughed grimly. "They know who we are -- or they think that they know. And they know that we know who are they are. After what happened before, why should we expect mercy? All that we can do now -- they think -- is to get the Mannschenn Drive going again. But with that comic beacon of theirs working away merrily they'll be able to home on us, no matter how random our presession." He laughed again. "They haven't a care in the world, bless their little black hearts..." Grimes watched his screens. Forty kilometers... Thirty... "Sir, "Yes. It's your party now." F or the third time reflective vapor gushed from the nozzles, surrounding the ship with a dense cloud. Craven, who had been watching the dials of the external temperature thermometers, remarked quietly, "They've opened fire. The shell plating's heating up. Fast." And in the control room it felt hot -- and hotter. Grimes pressed the button that unmasked his batteries. The gas screen, as well as affording protection from laser, hid the ship from visual observation. The enemy would not be expecting defence by force of arms. He loosed his first salvo, felt the ship tremble as the missiles ejected themselves from their launching racks. There they were on the screens -- six tifiy sparks, six moronic mechanical intelligences programmed to home upon and destroy, capable of countering evasive action so long as their propellant held out. There they were on the screens -- six of them, then four, then one. This last missile almost reached its target -- then it, too, blinked out. The Waldegren frigates were now using IP their laser for defence and not attack. '"I don't think," remarked Craven quietly, "that they'll be missiles. Not yet, anyhow. They want our cargo intact... He chuckled softly. "But we've got them worried." Grimes didn't bother to reply. The tell-tale lights on his panel told him missile missiles -- had not yet been fired. Dare he risk their use against big targets? He carried in his magazines stock sufficient for three full salvoes only -- and with no laser for antimissile work, dare he deplete his supply of this ammunition?" cribed as "vicious little brutes." They were to the Anti-Vessel Missiles as terriers are to mastiffs. Their warheads were small, but this was compensated for by their greater endurance. They were, perhaps, a little more "intelligent" then the larger rockets -- and Grimes, vaguely foreseeing this present contingency, had made certain modifications to their "brains." He pushed the button that actuated his modifications, that overrode the original programming. He depressed the firing stud. He felt the vibration as the war-rockets streaked away from the ship and on his screens watched the tiny points of light closing the range between themselves and the two big blips that were the targets. They were fast, and they were erratic. One was picked off by laser within the first ten seconds, but the others carried on, spurting and swerving, but always boring in towards their objectives. Grimes could imagine the enemy gunnery officers flailing their lasers like men, armed only with sticks, defending themselves against a horde of small, savage animals. There was, of course, one sure defence -- to start up the Mannschenn Drive and to slip back into the warped continuum where the missiles could not follow. But, in all probability, the Waldegren captains had yet to accept the fact, emotionally, that this helpless merchantman had somehow acquired the wherewithal to strike back. now, picked off by the enemy laser. Three were still closing on the target on Epsilon Sextan s port quarter, and only one on the target abaft the starboard beam. Grimes followed it with a full salvo of tective vapor screen must have been thinned and shredded by his rocketry, he sent out of replenishing gush of reflective gas. He heard Craven cry out in exulflight had hit their target, the three sparks had fused with the blip that represented the raider to port. The three sparks that were the second flight were almost there, and overtaking them were the larger and salvo. The Anti-Missile Missiles would cause only minor damage to a ship -- but, in all probability, they would throw fire control out of kilter, might even destroy laser prowould suffice to destroy a frigate; a hit by three at once would make destruction a certainty. And so it was. Seen only on the radar screen, as a picture lacking in detail painted on a fluorescent surface by an electron brush, it was anticlimactic. The blips, the large one, the three small ones and the three not so simall, merged. And then there was an oddly shaped blob of luminescence that slowly broke up into a cluster of glowing fragments, a gradually expanding cluster, a leisurely burgeoning flower of pale fire. Said Craven viciously, "The other bastard's got cold feet..." And so it was. Where she had been on the screen was only darkness, a darkness in which the sparks that was missiles and anti-missiles milled about aimlessly. They would not turn upon each other -- that would have been contrary to their programming. They would not, in theory, use their remaining fuel to home upon the only worthwhile target remaining -- Epsilon Sextans herself. But, as Craven knew and as Grimes knew, theory and practice do not always coincide. Ships have been destroyed by their own missiles. With reluctance Grimes pushed the captain, gesturing towards the wreckage depicted on the screen, "Pick up survivors, sir? If there are any..." "If there are any," snarled Craven, "that's their bad luck. No -- we give chase to the other swine I" ive chase... It was easier said than done. The surviving frigate had restarted her Mannschenn Drive, had slipped back into the warped continuum where, unless synchronization of precession rates were achieved and held, contact between vessels would be impossible. The Carlotti Beacon in Epsilon Sextans hold was worse than useless; it had been designed to be homed upon, not as a direction-finding instrument. (In any case, it could function as such only if the beacon aboard the Waldegren ship were working.) Neither Craven nor Grimes knew enough about the device to effect the necessary modifications. The interstellar drive engineers thought that they could do it, but their estimates as to the time required ranged from days to weeks. Obviously, as long as it was operating it would be of value to the enemy only. So it was switched off. There was only one method available to Craven to carry out the pursuit -- psionic tracking. He went for his psionic radio officer, explained the situation. The telepath was a young man, pasty faced, unhealthy looking, but not unintelligent. He said at once, "Do you think, captain, that the other officers and fight? After all, we've made our point. Wouldn't it be wisest to carry on, now, for Waverley?" IF "Speaking for meself," put in Baxter, who had accompanied June Pentecost to Control, "an fer any other Rim Worlders present, I say that now the bastards are on the run it's the best time ter smack 'em again. An' hard. An the tame time twisters think the same as we do. I've already had words with 'em." He glared at the telepath. "Our snoopin' little friend here should know very well what the general consensus is." "We do not pry," said the communications officer stiffly. "But I the majority." "And don't the orders of the master come into it?" asked Craven, more in lamusement than anger. "Lawful commands, sir?" asked Grimes who, until now, had been silent. "Shut up!" snapped Jane Pentecost. "Unluckily, sir," the young man went on, "I do not possess the direction-finding talent. It is, as you know, quite rare..." "Then what can you do?" demanded Craven. "Sir, let me finish, please. The psionic damping device -- I don't know what it was, but I suspect that iTwas the brain of some animal with which I am unfamiliar -- was in the ship that was destroyed. The other vessel carries only a normal operator, with normal equipment -- himself and some sort of organic amplifier. He is still within range, and I can maintain a listening watch..." "And suppose he listens to you?" asked the captain. "Even if you transmit nothing -- as you will not do unless ordered by myself -- there could be stray thoughts. And that, I suppose, applies to all of us." The telepath smiled smugly. "Direction-finding is not the only talent. I'm something of a damper myself, although not in the same class as the one that was blown up. I give you my word sir, that this vessel is psionically silent." He raised his hand as Craven was about to say something. "Now sir, I shall be able to find out where the other ship is heading. I know already that her Mannschenn Drive unit is not working at full capacity; it sustained damage of some kind during during the action. I'm not a navigator, sir, but it seems to me that we could be waiting for her when she re-emerges into the normal Continuum." "You're not a navigator," agreed Craven, "and you're neither a tactician nor a strategist. We should look rather silly, shouldn't we hanging in full view over a heavily fortified naval base, a sitting duck. Even so..." His big right hand stroked his beard. "Meanwhile, I'll assume that our little friends are headed in the general direction of Waldegren and set course accordingly. If Mr. Grimes will be so good as to hunt up the target star in the Directory... G rimes did as he was told. He had made his protest, such as it was, and, he had to admit, he was in favor of continuing the battle. It was a matter of simple justice. Why should one shipload of murderers be destroyed and the other shipload escape unscathed? He was still more than a little dubious of the legality of it all, but he did not let it worry him. He helped Craven to line the ship upon the target star, a yellow, fifth magnitude spark. He manned the intercom while the captain poured on the acceleration and then, with the ship again falling free, cut in the Mannsohenn Drive. When the vessel was on course he expected that the old Man would give the usual order: "Normal Deep Space routine, Mr. Grimes. But this was not forthcoming. "Now," said Craven ominously. "Now what , sir?" "You have a short memory, Ensign. A conveniently short memory, if I may say so. Mind you, I was favorably impressed by the way you handled your armament, but that has no bearing upon what happened before." Grimes blushed miserably. He knew what the captain was driving at. But, playing for time, he asked, "What do you mean, sir?" Craven exploded. "What do I mean? You have the crust to sit there and ask me that! Your snooping, sir. Your violation of privacy. Even worse, your violation of the master's privacy! I shall not tell Miss Pentecost; it would be unkind to embarrass her. But..." Grimes refrained from saying that he had seen Miss Pentecost wearing even less than when, inadvertently, he had spied upon her. He muttered, "I can explain, sir." "You'd better. Out with it." "Well, sir, it was like this. I knew that we'd stumbled on the enemy -- or that the enemy had stumbled upon us. I'd sounded Action Stations. And when you were a long time coming up to Control I thought that you must have hurt yourself, somehow... There have been such cases, as you know. So I thought I'd better check..." "You thought... You thought. I'll not say that you aren't paid to think, because that's just what an officer is paid for. But you didn't think hard enough, or along the right lines." Grimes could see that Craven had accepted his explanation and that all would be well. The captain's full beard could not hide the beginnings of a smile. "Did you ever hear of Sir Francis Drake, Ensign?" "No, sir." "He was an admiral -- one of Queen Elizabeth's admirals. The first Elizabeth, of course. When the Spanish Armada was sighted he did not rush down to his flagship yelling 'Action Stations!' He knew that there was time to spare, and so he quietly finished what he was doing before setting sail." "And what was he doing, sir?" asked Grimes innocently. Craven glared at him, then snapped. "Playing bowls." Then, suddenly, the tension was broken, and both men collapsed in helpless laughter. In part it was reaction to the strain of battle -- but in greater part it was that freemasonry that exists only between members of the same sex, the acknowledgment of shared secrets and shared experiences. IF Grimes knew that Jane Pentecost was not for him and wished Craven joy of her and she of the captain. Perhaps they had achieved a permanent relationship, perhaps not -- but, either way, his best wishes were with them. Craven unbuckled his seat strap. "Deep Space routine, Mr. Grimes. It is your watch. I believe." "Deep Space routine it is, sir." Yes, it was still his watch (although so much had happened). It was still his watch, although there were barely fifteen minutes to go before relief. He was tired, more tired than he had ever been in his life before. He was tired, but not unhappy. He knew that the fact that he had killed men should be weighing heavily upon his conscience -- but it did not. They, themselves, had been killers -- and they had had a far better chance than any of their own victims had enjoyed. He would shed no tears for them. Craven came back to the control room at the change of watch, when Grimes was handing it over to Jane Pentecost. He waited until the routine had been completed, then said, "We know where our friends are headed. They were, like us, ru nnin g for Waldegren -- but they're having to change course." He laughed harshly. "There must be all hell let loose on their home planet." "Why? What's happened?" asked Grimes. "I'll tell you later. But, first of all, we have an alteration of course ourselves. Look up Dartura in the Directory, will you, while I get the Drive shut down." Epsilon Sextans was falling free through normal Space-Time before Grimes had found the necessary information. And then there was the hunt for and the final identification of the target star, followed by the lining up by the use of the directional gyroscopes. There was the brief burst of acceleration and then, the interstellar drive was cut in. The captain made a business of selecting and lighting a cigar. When the pungent combustion was well under way he said, "Our young Mr. Summers is a good snooper. Not as good as some people I know, perhaps..." Grimes flushed, and Jane Pentecost looked puzzled. "He's a super-sensitive. He let me have a full transcript of all the signals, out and in. It took us a little time to get them sorted out -- but not too long, considering. Adler -- that's the name of the surviving frigate -- was running for home. Her captain sent a rather heavily edited report of the action to his admiral. It seems that Adler and the unfortunate Albatross were set upon and beaten up by a heavily armed Survey Service cruiser masquerading as an innocent mechantman. The Admiral, oddly enough, doesn't want a squadron of Survey Service battlewagons laying nuclear eggs on his base. So Adler has been told to run away and lose herself until the flap's over..." "And did they send all that en clair?" demanded Grimes. "They must be mad!" "No, they aren't mad. The signal weren't en clair" "But... " "Reliable merchant captains' said Craven, "are often entrusted with highly confidential naval documents: There were some such in my safe aboard Delta Orionis, consigned to the officer commanding Lindisfame Base. The officer who delivered them to me is an old friend and shipmate of mine, and he told me that among them was the complete psionic code used by the Waldegren Navy. Well, when I had decided to take over this ship, I'd have been a bloody fool not to have photostatted the whole damn issue. "So that's the way of it. Herr Kapitan von Leidnitz thinks that he can say what he likes to his superiors without anybody else knowing what he's saying. And all the while..." Craven grinned wolfishly. "It seems that there's a minor base, of sorts, on Dartura. Little more than repair yards, although I suppose that there'll be a few batteries for their protection. I can imagine the sort of personnel they have running the show -- passed-over commanders and the like, not overly bright. By the time that we get there we shall have concocted a convincing story -- convincing enough to let us hang off in orbit until Adler appears on the scene. After all, we have their precious code. Why should they suspect us?" "Why shouldn't we be AdlerT asked Grimes. "What do you mean, Ensign?" 'The Waldegren Navy's frigates are almost identical, in silhouette, with the Commission's Epsilon Class freighters. We could disguise this ship a little by masking the dissimilarities by a rough patching of plating. After all, Adler was in action and sustained some damage... "Complicated," mused the captain. "Too complicated. And two Adlers -- each, presumably, in encoded psionic communication with both Waldegren and Dartura... You've a fine, devious mind, young Grimes, but I'm afraid you've outfoxed yourself on that one." # #T et me talk, sir. Let me think I J out loud. To begin with, a ship running on Mannschenn Drive can put herself into orbit about a planet; but it's not, repeat not, recommended." "Too bloody right it's not." "But we have the heels of Adler? Yes? Then we could afford a slight delay to carry out the modifications -- the disguise -- that I've suggested. After all, forty-odd lightyears is quite a long way." "But what do we gain, Mr. Grimes?" "The element of confusion, sir. Let me work it out. We disguise ourselves as well as we can. We find out, from intercepted and decoded ordinates of her break-through into the normal continuum. We contrive matters to be more or less in the same place at exactly the same time. And when the shore batteries and the guaidships see no less than two Adlers slugging it out, each of them IP yelling for help in the secret code, they won't know which of us to open fire on." "Grimes," said Craven slowly, "I didn't know you had it in you. All I can say is that I'm glad that you're on our side." "Am I?" asked Grimes wonderingly, suddenly deflated. He looked at die Captain who, after all, was little better than a pirate, whose accomplice he had become. He looked at the girl, but for whom he would not be here. "Am I? Damn it all, whose side am I on?" "You'd better go below," Craven told him gently. "Go below and get some sleep. You need it. You've earned it." "Jeremy," said Jane Pentecost to Craven, "would you mind looking after the shop for half an hour or so? I'll go with John." "As you please, my dear. As you please." "It was the assurance in the captain's voice that hurt. It won't make any difference to us, it implied. It can't make any difference. Sure , Jane , go ahead . Throw the nice little doggie a bone. We can spare it. "No thank you," said Grimes coldly and left the control room. But he couldn't hate these people. XX A fter a long sleep Grimes felt better. After a meal he felt better still. It was a good meal, even though the solid portion of it came from tins. Craven's standards were slipping, thought the ensign. He was reasonably sure that such items as caviar, escargots, pate de foie gpas, Virginia ham, Brie, and remarkably alcoholic cherries were not included in the commission's inventory of emergency stores. And neither would be the quite reasonable Montrachet, although it had lost a little by being decanted from its original bottles into standard squeeze bulbs. But if the captain had decided that the laborer was worthy of his hire, with the consignees of the cargo making their contribution towards that hire, that was his privyou will. Jane Pentecost watched him eat. As he was finishing his coffee she said, "Now that our young lion 'has fed, he is required in the Control Room." He looked at her both gratefully and warily. "What have I done now?" "Nothing, my dear. It is to discuss what you -- we -- will do. Next." He followed her to Control. Craven was there, of course, and so were Baxter and Summers. The captain was enjoying one of his rank cigars, and a limp, roll-your-own cigarette dangled from the engineer's lower lip. The telepath coughed pointedly every time that acrid smoke expelled by either man drifted his way. Neither paid any attention to him, and neither did Grimes when he filled and lit his own pipe. Craven said, "I've been giving that scheme of yours some thought. It's a good one." "Thank you, sir." "Don't thank me. I should thank you. Mr. Summers, here, has been maintaining a careful listening can afford to shut down the Drive to make the modifications that you suggest. To begin with, we'll fake patching plates with plastic sheets -- we can't afford to cannibalize any more of the ship's structure -- so as to obscure our name and identification letters. We'll use more plastic to simulate missile launchers and laser projectors; luckily there's plenty of it in the cargo..." "We found more than plastic while we were lookin' for it," said the engineer, licking his lips. "That will do, Mr. Baxter. Never, in normal cirmumstances, should I have condoned..." "These circumstances ain't normal, Skipper, an' we all bloody well know it." "That will do, I say." Craven inhaled deeply, then filled the air of the control room with a cloud of smoke that, thought Grimes, would have reflected laser even at close range. Summers almost choked, and Jane snapped, "Jeremy!" "This, my dear, happens to be my control room." He turned again to the ensign. "It will not be necessary, Mr. Grimes, to relocate the real weapons. They functioned quite efficiently where they are and, no doubt, will do so again. And now, as soon as I have shut down the Drive, I shall hand the watch over to you. You are well rested and refreshed." "Come on," said Jane to Baxter. "Let's get suited up and get that sheeting out of the airlock." "Couldn't Miss Pentecost hold the fort, sir?" asked Grimes. He added, "I've been through the camouflage course at the Academy." "And so have I, Mr. Grimes. Furthermore, Miss Pentecost has had experience in working outside, but I don't think that you have." "No, sir. But .'..." "That will be all, Mr. Grimes." At Craven's orders the Drive was shut down, and outside the viewports the sparse stars became stars again, were no longer pulsing spirals of multicolored light. Then, alone in the control room, Grimes actuated his scanners so that he could watch the progress of the work outside the hull, switched on the transceiver that worked on the spacesuit frequency. This time he ran no risk of being accused of being a Peeping Tom. H e had to admire the competence with which his shipmates worked. The plastic sheeting had no mass to speak of, but it was awkward stuff to handle. Torches glowed redly as it was cut and radiated invisibly in the infrared as it was shaped and welded. The workers, in their bulky, clumsy suits, moved with a grace that was in startling contrast to their attire -- a Deep Space ballet, thought Grimes, pleasurably surprised at his own way with words. From the speaker of the transceiver came Craven's curt orders, the brief replies of the others. "This way a little... That's it " "She'll do, Skipper " "No she won't. Look at the bend on itF IF Then Jane's laughing voice, ' Our secret weapon , Jeremy . A laser that fires round corners!" "That will do, Miss Pentecost . Straighten it, will you?" "Ay, ay, sir. Captain, sir" The two interstellar drive engineers were working in silence, but with efficiency. Aboard the ship were only Grimes and Summers, the telepath. Grimes felt out of it, but somebody had to mind the shop, he supposed. But the likelihood of any customers was remote. Then he stiffened in his chair. One of the spacesuited figures was falling away from the vessel, drifting out and away, a tiny, glittering satellite reflecting the harsh glare of the working floods, a little, luminous butterfly pinned to the black velvet of the ultimate night. Who was it? He didn't know for certain, but thought that it was Jane. The ship's interplanetary drives -- reaction and inertial -- were on remote control, but reaction drive was out; before employing it he would have to swing to the desired heading by use of the directional gyroscopes. But the inertial drive was versatile. He spoke into the microphone of the transceiver. "Secure yourselves. I am proceeding to rescue." At once Craven's voice snapped back, "Hold it, Grimes. Hold it! There's no danger." "But, sir..." "Hold it!" Grimes could see the distant figure now from a viewpoint, but it did not seem to be receding any longer. Hastily he checked with the radar. Range and bearing were not changing. Then, with relative bearing unaltered, the range was closing. He heard Jane call out, "Got it! I'm on the way back!" Craven replied, "Make it snappy -- otherwise young Grimes'll be chasing you all over the universe!" Grimes could see, now, the luminous flicker of a suit reaction unit from the lonely figure. Later, he and the others examined the photographs that Jane had taken. Epsilon Sextans looked as she was supposed to look, like a badly battle-scarred frigate of the Waldegren Navy. I n terms of Space and of Time there was not much longer to go. The two ships -- one knowing and one unknowing -- raced towards their rendezvous. Had they been plunging through the normal continuum there would have been, towards the finish, hardly the thickness of a coat of paint between them, the adjustment of a microsecond in temporal precession rates would have brought inevitable collision. Craven knew this from the results of his own observations and from the encoded position reports, sent at six hourly intervals, by Adler . Worried, he allowed himself to fall astern, a mere half kilometer. It would be enough -- and, too, it would mean that the frigate would mask him from the fire of planetbased batteries. Summers maintained his listening watch. Apart from the position reports he had little of interest to tell IF the captain. Adler , once or twice had tried to get into contact with the main base on Waldegren; but, other then from a curt directive to proceed as ordered there were no signals from the planet to the ship. Dartura Base was more talkative. That was understandable. There was no colony on the planet, and the base personnel must be bored, must be pining for the sight of fresh faces, the sound of fresh voices. They would have their excitement soon enough, promised Craven grimly. Through the warped continuum fell the two ships, and ahead the pulsating spiral that was the Dartura sun loomed ever brighter, ever larger. There were light-years yet to go, but the Drive-induced distortions made it seem that tentacles of incandescent gas were already reaching out to clutch them, to drag them into the atomic furnace at the heart of the star. In both control rooms, watch succeeded watch; but the thoughts and the anticipations of the watchkeepers were not the same. Aboard Adler there was the longing for rest, for relaxation -- although Adler's captain must have been busy with the composition of a report that would clear him (if possible) of blame for his defeat. Aboard Epsilon Sextans there was the anticipation of revenge -- insofar as Craven, Baxter, Jane Pentecost and the survivors of the ship's original personnel were concerned. Grimes? As the hour of reckoning approached he was more and more dubious. He did not know what to think, what to feel. There was the strong personal loyalty to Craven -- and, even now, to Jane Pentecost. There was the friendship and mutual respect that had come into being between himself and Baxter. There was the knowledge that Adler's crew were no better than pirates, were murderers beyond rehabilitation. There was the pride he felt in his own skill as a gunnery officer. (But, as such, was he, himself, any better than a pirate, a murderer? The exercise of his craft aboard a warship would be legal -- but here, aboard a merchantman, and a disguised merchantman at that, the legality was doubtful. What had his motives been when he volunteered -- and as a commissioned officer of the Survey Service he had had no right to do so -- what were his motives now?) He, Grimes, was not happy. He had far too much time to ponder the implications. He was an accessory before, during and after the fact. He had started off correctly enough, when he had tried to prevent Craven from requisitioning the Survey Service cargo aboard Delta Orionis , but after that... After he and Jane... (That, he admitted, was a memory that he wanted to keep, always, just as that other memory, of the bright picture of naked female flesh on the screen, he wished he could lose forever.) He had started off correctly enough -- and then, not only had he helped install the purloined armament but had used it. ( And used it well , he told himself with a brief resurgence of pride.) Furthermore, the disguise of Epsilon Sextans had been his idea. Oh, he was in it, all right. He was in up to the neck. What the final outcome of it all would be he did not care to contemplate. But it would soon be over. He had no fears as to the outcome of the 'battle. The element of surprise would be worth at least a dozen missile launchers. Adler would never have the chance to use her laser. A dler , reported Summers, had shut down her Mannschenn Drive and emerged briefly into normal Space-Time to make her final course adjustment. She was now headed not for the Dartura Sun but for the planet itself -- or where the planet would be at the time of her final -- and fatal -- re-emergence into the continuum. The last ordinates of her planetfall. Epsilon Sextans made her own course adjustment -- simultaneity in Time and a half kilometer's divergence in Space being Craven's objective. It was finicky work, even with the use of the ship's computer, but the captain seemed satisfied. The race -- the race that would culminate in a dead heat -- continued. Aboard the frigate there was, reported Summers, a lessening of tension, the loosening up that comes when a voyage is almost over. Aboard the merchantman the tension increased. The interstellar drive engineers, Grimes knew, were no happier about it all than he was -- but they could no more back out than he could. Craven was calm and confident, and Baxter was beginning to gloat. Jane Pentecost assumed IF the air of dedication that in women can be so infuriating. Grimes glumly checked and rechecked his weaponry. It passed the time. Dartura itself was visible now -- not as tiny disc of light, but as a glowing annulus about its distorted primary. The thin ring of luminescence broadened, broadened. The time to go dwindled to a week, to days, to a day, and then to hours... To minutes... To seconds... Craven and Grimes were in the control room, the others were at their various stations. From the intercom came the telepath's voice, "He's cutting the Drive..." "Out the Drive!" ordered the Captain. In the Mannschenn Drive room the spinning, precessing gyroscopes slowed, slowed, ceased their endless tumbling, assumed the solidity that they exhibited only when at rest. For perhaps two seconds there was temporal confusion in the minds of all on board as the precession field died, Past, Present and Future inextricably mingled. Then there was a gun glaring through the viewports, bright in spite of the polarization -- a sun, and, directly ahead, a great, green-orange planet. There was a ship... There were ships -- ahead of them, astern, on all sides. There were ships -- and, booming from the intership transceiver, the transceiver that was neither tuned nor switched on (but navies could afford induction transmitters with their fantastic power consumption) came the authorative voice, "Inflexible to Adler! Heave to for search and seizure! Do not attempt to escape, our massed fields will hold you!" The effect was rather spoiled when the same voice added, in bewilderment, "Must be seeing double. There's two of the bastards..." The bewilderment did not last long. "Inflexible to Adler and to unidentified vessel. Heave to for search and seizure!" "Hold your fire, Mr. Grimes," ordered Craven, quietly and bitterly. "It's the Survey Service." "I know," replied Grimes -- and pressed the button. H e never knew just why he had had done so. Talking it over afterwards, thinking about it, he was able to evolve a theory that fitted the facts. During that brief period immediately after the shutting down of the Drive, during the short session of temporal disorientation, there had been prescience, of a sort. He had known that Adler, come what may, would attempt one last act of defiance and revenge, just as Adler's captain or Gunnery Officer must have known, in that last spit second, that Nemesis was treading close upon his heels. He pushed the button -- and from the nozzles in the shell plating poured the reflective vapor, the protective screen that glowed , ruddily as Adler's lasers slashed out at it. From the speaker of the dead transceiver, the transceiver that should have been dead, roared the voice of the Survey Service admiral. "Adler! Cease fire! Cease fire, damn you!" There was a pause, then -- "You've asked for it!" She had asked for it and now she got it. Suddenly the blip on Grimes' screen that represented the Waldegren frigate became two smaller blips, and then four. The roiling fog outside Epsilon Sextans viewports lost its luminosity, faded suddenly to drab grayness. The voice from the transceiver said coldly, "And now you whoever you are, had better identify yourself. And fast." Craven switched on the communications equipment. He spoke quitely into the microphone. "Interstellar Transport Commission's Epsilon Sextans. Bound Waverley, with general cargo... "Bound Waverley? Then what the hell are you doing here? And what's that armament you're mounting?" "Plastic," replied the captain. "Plastic dummies." plastic, too. Come off it, Jerry. We've already boarded your old ship, and although your ex-Mate was most reluctant to talk we got a story of sorts from him." "I thought I recognized your voice, Bill. May I congratulate you upon your belated efforts to stamp out piracy?" "And may I deplore your determination to take the law into your own hands? Stand by for the boarding party." G rimes looked at Craven, who was slumped in his seat. The master's full beard effectively masked his expression. "Sir," asked the ensign. "What can they do? What will they do?" "You're the space lawyer, Grimes. You're the expert on Survey Service rules and regulations. What will it be, think you? A medal -- or a firing squad? Praise or blame?" "You know the admiral, sir?" "Yes. I know the admiral. We're old shipmates." "Then you should be safe." "Safe? I suppose so. Safe from the firing squad, but not safe from my employers. I'm a merchant captain, Grimes, and merchant captains aren't supposed to range the spacelanes looking for trouble. I don't think they'll dare fire me; but I know that never can I expect command of anything better than Delta Class ships, on the drearier runs. Grimes saw that Craven was smiling. "But there's still the Rim Worlds. There's still the Sundowner Line, and the chance of high rank in the Rim Worlds Navy when and if there is such a service." "You have... inducements, sir?" "Yes. There are... inducements." "I thought, once," said Grimes, "that I could say the same. But not now. Not any longer. Even so... I'm Survey Service, sir, and I should be proud of my service. But in this ship, this merchant vessel, with her makeshift armament, we fought against heavy odds, and won. And, just now, we saved ourselves. It wasn't the Survey Service that saved us." "Don't be disloyal," admonished Craven. IF "I'm not being disloyal, sir. But... Or, shall we say, I'm being loyal. You're the first captain under whom I served under fire. If you're going out to the Rim Worlds I'd like to come with you." "Your Commission, Grimes. You know that you must put in ten years' service before resignation is possible." "But I'm dead." "Dead?" "Yes. Don't you remember I was snooping around in the Mannschenn Drive room, and I got caugjit in the temporal precession field. My body still awaits burials; it's in a sealed metal box in the deep freeze. It can never be identified..." Craven laughed. "I'll say this for you. You're ingenious. But how do we account for the absence of the late Mr. Wolverton? And your presence aboard this drip..." "I can hide, sir, and..." "And while you're hiding you'll concoct some story that will explain everything. Oh Grimes, Grimes... You're an officer I wish I could always have with me. But I'll not stand in the way of your career. All I can do, all I will do, is smooth things over on your behalf with the admiral. I should be able to manage that." J ane Pentecost emerged from the hatch in the control room deck. Addressing Craven she said formalmoved to one side to make way for the flag officer. "Jerry, you bloody pirate!" boomthe left breast of whose shirt was ablaze with ribbons. He advanced with outstretched hand. "Glad to have you aboard, Bill. This is Liberty Hall -- you can spit on the mat and call the cat a bastard!" "Not again!" groaned Grimes. "And who is this young man?" asked the admiral. "I owe you -- or your Service -- an apology, Bill. This is Ensign Grimes, who was a passenger aboard Delta Orionis. I'm afraid that I... er... press-ganged him into my service. But he has been most... cooperative? Uncooperative? Which way do you want it?" "As we are at war with Waldegren -- I'd say cooperative, with reservations. Was it he, by the way, who you all that he did." "At war with Waldegren?" demanded Jane Pentecost. "So you people have pulled your fingers out at last." The admiral raised his eyebrows. "One of my Rim Worlders," explained Craven. "But I shall be a Rim Worlder myself shortly." "You're wise, Jerry. I've got the buzz that the Commission is taking a very dim view of your piracy or privateering or whatever it was, and my own Lords and Masters are far from pleased with you. You'd better get the hell out before the lawyers have decided just what crimes you are guility of." "As bad as that?" "As bad as that." "And young Grimes, here?" "We'll take him back. Six months' strict discipline aboard my flagship will undo all the damage that you and your ideas have done to him. And now, Jerry, I'd like your full report." "In my cabin, Bill. Talking is thirsty work." "Then lead on. It's your ship." "And it's your watch, Mr. Grimes. She'll come to no harm on this trajectory while we get things sorted out." G rimes sat with Jane Pentecost in the control room. Through the ports, had he so desired, he could have watched the rescue teams extricating the survivors from the wreckage of Adler , he could have stared out at the looming bulk of Dartura on the beam. But he did not do so, and neither did he look at his instruments. He looked at Jane. There was so much about her that he wanted to remember -- and, after all, so very little that he was determined to forget. The intercom buzzed. "Mr. Grimes, will you pack whatever gear you have and prepare to transfer ship? Hand the watch over to Miss Pentecost." "But you'll be shorthanded, sir." "The admiral is lending me a couple of officers for the rest of the voyage." "Very good, sir." Grimes made no move. He looked at Jane -- a somehow older, tireder, a more human Jane than the girl he had first met. He said, "I'd have liked to come out to the Rim with you..." She said, "It's impossible, John." "I know. But..." "You'd better get packed." He unbuckled his seat belt, went to where she was sitting. He kissed her. She responded, but it was only the merest flicker of a response. He said, "Good-by." She said, "Not good-by. We'll see you out on the Rim, sometime." With a bitterness that he was always to regret he replied, "Not bloody likely." I by Mack Reynolds A Long Berserker Novelette by Fred Saberhagen by Sam Moskowitz -- and many other top stories and features! -- get your copy today! IF Dear Editor: This is the first time I have written your magazine (or any other!) but since If is a Hugo winner I suppose it is the logical place to start. The strong points of If are the serialized novels and the Gree, Retief, Berserker and Niven series. In the first category you have published, in #, two first-class novels, The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress by Heinlein (best thing ever published in ) and Earthblood by Brown and Laumer, as well as three other good serials. To top this off, the editorials, best features of any magazine. All of these, especially O.M.I.F. deserve to be increased in length. A book reviewer of Budrys's caliber -- del Rey or Leiber perhaps -- is badly needed for If. The only magazine science writer I like is Asimov, although Ley's books are QX. As a special feature could you give a bibliography of Heinlein's work? If anyone reading this knows of a chess association of SF fans (or would like to form one), please drop me a line. Same with a group of Heinlein devotees. First move in four-dimensional chess game: King's Knight, level #, time quanta I to King Knight #, level #, TQ #. -- J. Robert Voelker, # McIntosh Avenue, Akron, Ohio #.    Dear Editor: Just a belated letter in tribute to your creative genius. Your editorial on pictures from computers really fascinated me! So logical, so original, so true -- for a non-program mer to invent. You should now be informed that this cartooning sort of thing is very definitely "old-hat" in the field of computer programming. Especially, in the field of military-computer programming, where various symbols and diagrams must be strategically placed upon various scopes, in proper alignment. An excellent example is the "orientation" program for the Sage System Defense Computer network. When more information (detail) is desired of a certain spot on the scope, a so-called "light-gun" is aimed at that spot, and activates an auxiliary detail-information program sequence. Now, strictly for the visitation of very high brass and civilians, this "orientation" program has a topless belly dancer swinging a mean grass skirt. And when you fire the light-gun at her navel, off drops the grass skirt! Since that program, and the other information above, is unclassified, it is legal for me to tell you about it. I wonder whether I should also tell you that I was told -- by an executive -- that it cost about # of taxpayers' money to write and check out that "orientation" program? This was done # or more years ago. Certainly, programming is cheaper than stage shows and movies. The main reason is because programmers are cheaper to hire than actors, stagehands, props, etc. However, large sums of money are still required, since checkout can be very time-consuming -- and machine-time is very expensive, at least on the large computers. However, the process of microminiaturization of electronic components should, eventually, reduce the prices of large-scale, high-speed ligital computers. Incidentally, I was told that was available only at the original programming contractor's location computer sites around the country. On second thought, let's not print this letter. Let's just keep it at the level of information for you. OK? I have enjoyed your stories, and your magazines, for many years now. But I am selective! I browse through any magazine sci-fi or otherwise, before I decide whether or not to buy that particular issue. # We didn't want to keep this valuable bit of information from you, so we coaxed the author of the above to let us publish it, and he agreed -- providing we didn't give his name I -- Editor .    Dear Editor: May I make a suggestion? Each month you publish a First that has never seen print before. Often it is easy to pick out the first, because, all the other writers you've seen before. This is not always true. Could you possibly include this on the page where the story starts? Say the top right comer, opposite the "short story" or whatever? Talking of firsts, if I'm not mistaken, On the Shallow Seas was the first for January '#. I think that it is one of the best you've printed so far and you've printed some good ones in '#. There was Steve Buchanan, H. H. Hollis, A. A. Walde and Gardner Raymond Dozois. All of them from good to great. I'm glad to see that Budrys decided to come back and write some more and if his new novel is as good all the way through (I have no doubt that it is) as the first part, he'll have next year's Hugo all but wrapped up. Which brings me to the congratulations. You deserved that Hugo, and I'm betting on you having it ten years at least, or do you think Galaxy might grab it? By the way, when are you going to bring us Rogue Star? If not soon then I would suggest you write a story and (get it printed fast -- if there's one thing this mag lacks, it's stories by you! -- Nick Grimshawe, R. R. ##, Alliston, Ontario, Canada.  Principal reason we don't identify "First" stories at the beginning of the stories themselves is that we feel they must compete for your atIF tention with the other stories by the regular professionals -- otherwise we have no business printing them. But there's something to be said for the other way, too, and maybe we ought to try it for a while... Rogue Star (it now seems) will start in the July issue of If. Hope it's been worth waiting for ! -- Editor.    Dear Editor: ner's letter quite disturbing. Are the members so sure they are not the bottom # of the population in intelligence? If a man gifted with superior intelligence feels he is a misfit, is his intelligence really superior? If he has so much intelligence he should be able to live yith his inferiors with little problem. The "lonely heads" club really has no reasonto be in existence. I appreciate any personal correspondence from readers. -- Ronald Weintstock, # Sunset Road, Lawrence, New York #.    Dear Editor: amused to notice a little point at the end of "The Moon... Manuel makes reference to a member of the family, named Hazel, who changes her name to Stone, Hazel a novel -- one of his "juveniles", called The Rolling Stones, in which the main character was an old woman named Hazel Stone -- and she was an engineer who lived on the moon. I wonder how many of your readers caught this. Anyway, I hope that there will be many more Heinlein serials in If; many, many more. And while I'm writing, two other things. First, a complaint about your covers. They never seem to change, and they always look like so methin g complaints about critics not taking SF seriously. No wonder! Secondly, a question. I imagine that every fan who's been a fan for more than a year has heard or read the phrase "The Music of the Spheres". Have you any idea whence this haunting term came? -- Brian Kappler, # Buckingham Drive, Windsor, Ontario, Canada. # We turned your question over to the eminent classicist Miss JudyLynn Benjamin, B.A., noted author of various monographs and papers, editor of the recent and penetrating critique of James Joyce's Ulysses, The Celtic Bull, etc., and our esteemed Associate Editor. Says Judy-Lynn: "Pythagoras, having ascertained that the pitch of notes depends on the rapidity of vibration, and also observing that the planets move at different velocities through the heavens, concluded that each planet must make a sound in its motion according to its speed; and, as all things in nature are harmoniously made, the different sounds must harmonize. Plato went a step farther by stating that a siren must sit on each planet, carolling a sweet song, agreeing to the motion of her own particular planet yet harmonizing with all the others." So much for the classical view. Since the beginning of radio-telescopy the "sounds" -- i.e., the radio waves, which can be read-out as audible frequencies as well as anything else -- of various radio-emitting heavenly bodies is sometimes called "the music of the spheres." Only thing wrong, it ain't harmonious! (Sounds like squeaks, hums, putt-putts and squeals.) -- Editor .    Dear Editor: I, and I suppose a multitude of science-fiction fans, want to thank you for drawing our attention to the proposed cancellation of the TV show "Star Trek". For the very first time in my life I sat down and wrote to a network (and an editor) to protest having a show taken off the air. Not that I have any doubt of the outcome of it all: The show will be cancelled, the way the rating-game is played. It would be gratifying if you could suggest to the writers who contributed to the scripts to put them into book-form. As you probably know, there is an adaption of "StarTrek" episodes by James Blish on the bookstands, a very poor one. It is one of the rare instances in which a book is far inferior to the show which bears its name. Characterization is non-existent, the relationship of the three main characters toward each other, which makes the show so enjoyable and which, I am sure, is the interpretation intended by the original authors, and which is one of friendship, respect, loyalty and subtle humor, are completely forgotten and ignored in the book version. It is quite unbelievable, as the book has it, that the commander of a starship, who spends years in space to find new civilizations, should feel uneasy and kind of patronizingly amused at the different ways his alien first officer has. Why spend all that time in space, if you expect to find exactly everything as on Earth? Quite illogical and very provincial. There is another point which the show also raises, but which I dismissed as nitpicking in view of the overall excellence of the show, but which is very irritating in the book: The supposed absence of any and all emotions in Vulcans. There just is no such thing, anyone like that is a robot. Loyalty, friendship, integrity, courage -- all of these attributes Mr. Spock possesses -- are emotions. And Mr. Spock is supposed to be the offspring of a Vulcan father and a human mother, so somebody must have loved someone at some time. I would love to see "Star Trek" in book form, written by writers who know their craft. -- Mrs. Fred Witten, #-# #st Street, Long Island City #, New York.    Dear Editor: I request that you or one of your readers help me. Do you or your readers know of any group preparing for the day when it will be possible to establish either on the Moon or under the sea a society or a group of societies which will be more or less independent of those which now exist? Does anyone have any practical plans to produce a good or perfect society in the near future? (I do not include L.B.J.) -- Patrick J. Kelly, Jr., #I South Wickham Road, Baltimore, Maryland #. # That does it for another month. This issue's "First" story is by B. K. Filer. We think you'll be seeing QQ IF won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. GF-# by Emsh No. GF-# by Emsh ;oo O C) y.  ooooo # The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted Ail Postpaid. Add state sales tax, il any. Your Subscription is Your Private Window On Baby is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smih The Big Time Fritz' Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All if akes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to you door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy ?n its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do I Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman ( Farenheit #. Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet ( The Space Merchants ) Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Star s (Way Station ) Clifford D. Sftnak Horn  from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley JUNE # Wizard's World A Novelette of a Planet of Sorcerers Driftglass and other top stories by your science-fiction favorites Your Subscription Is Your Private Window On the stars in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! Galaxy Publishing Corp. #I Hudson Street New York, N.Y. #  Yes, start my subscription to Galaxy right away.  my check or money order for;       enclose   P I I # issues for # Q # issues for #   Name...  Address   City  State Zip Code   U.S. only. Add #c per issue foreign postage.#  Please check whether  new or Q renewal.  Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smith The Big Time Fritx Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do  Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants) Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walli The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Bey VoJ #, No. # Frederik PobI, Editor David Perfon, Production Manager Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by Andre Norton by Howard L. Morris by Samuel R. Delany by Keith Laumer by Fred Saberhagen by Jack B. Lawson by Stan Elliott by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation. Robert M. Guli President. Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York. #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # In the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York. N.Y. # IF  Editorial T ime was when everyone knew that the Earth was flat -- after all, you could look at it and see its flatness for yourself. Then along came Eratosthenes to say it was round, and prove it by measuring the height of the sun at midday in two locations. (The see-foryourself people didnt really believe him, wherefore the world went right back to assuming it was flat for another thousand years or more; but ' that's only a detail ; he was right, and sooner or later Galileo, Giordano Bruno and others came along to confirm what he said.) Then, quite recently as historical time (goes, the great geodetic surveys of the last hundred years revealed that it was not a sphere but what we learned in school to call an oblate spheroid. All of this was reasonably satisfactory and comfortable for most people -- once they'd got over the first instinctive horror at concluding our enormous Earth was only a little pebble rolling around a vast and empty universe, anyway. It all made sense. The Earth spins, right? We know that spinning objects bulge out at their equators if they can -- that is, if the centrifugal force generated exceeds the rigidity of the object. So naturally our Earth bulges too -- Only it shouldn't bulge as much as it does. Unless we're very wrong in some basic assumptions, we know quite accurately how much it should bulge. The radius of the Earth at the equator ought to be about # miles more than at the poles. But it isn't exactly. We now have a chance to measure this radius with great precision by tracking the orbits of the hundreds of manmade satellites we've put up... and the confounded thing bulges # feet more than it ought to. How much of a difference does that make? Up at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory a fellow named E. M. Gaposchkin puts it this way: A RE the tales of stwngehian powers false? Can themystefipus feats erformed by the mystics of the Orient e explained away as only illusions? Is there an intangible bond with the universe beyond which draws mankind on? Does a mighty Cosmic intelligence from the reaches of space ebb and flow through the deep recesses of the mind, forming a river of wisdom which can carry men and women to the heights of personal achievement? Have You Had These Experiences?... that unmistakable feeling that you have taken the wrong course of action, that you have violated some inner, unexpressed, better judgement? The sudden realization that me silent whisperings of self are cautioning you to keep your own counsel -- not to speak words on the tip of your tongue in the presence of another. That something which pushes you forward when you hesitate, or restrains you when you are apt to make a wrong move. lliese urges are the subtle influence which when understood and directed has made thousands of men and women masters of their lives. There IS a source of intelligence within you as natural as your senses of sight and hearing, and usmg now! Challenge this statement! Dare the Rosicrucians to reveal the funaions of this Cosmic mind and its great possibilities to you. Let This Free Book Explain lyte this infinite power into your partnership. You can use it in a rational and practical way without interference with your religious beliefs or personal affairs. The Rosicrucians, a world-wide philosophical movement, invite you to write today for your Free copy of the fascinating book, "The Mastery of Life" which explains further. Address your request to Scribe N.C.O, San Jose, California # Please Include Your Zip Code "Tlie Earth has in fact the shape that it would have in theory if it rotated so fast that a day was # instead of # hours long." Further, Gaposchkin points out, there is some pretty good evidence to believe that at a point in the geological past, perhaps fifty million years ago. Earth's day was # hours. Could there be some sort of We don't know; but Gaposckin adds, "We do know though, that the force which produced that extra oblateness, and is therefore in a sense trapped in it, is about #x # ergs... enough... to raise the temperature of all of the oceans by # Fahrenheit, right now." I nteresting? We thought so; and it led us to wonder about something else. The resistance produced when one object is rubbed against another is called friction; to us it looks mostly like a uniform force, which we measure in terms of the drag of an aircraft winig, the braking distance of a car under varying conditions of speed, road surface, tires, and so on, etc. Careful study has shown us, though, that on the microscopic scale the friction between two solids isn't aU that uniform. It appears to operate in a sort of stick-slip progression, with the two surfaces alternately microwelding to each other land breaking free, welding and breaking) free again. So what appears to the eye as a uniform deceleration is, to a micro-observer, perhaps better described as a series of jolting shocks, dizzying slides, crunching halts and brief periods of stability. You might even say that the micro-observer would think himself involved in tectonic activity... a sort of great San Francisco earthquake that goes on and on. And now we wonder this: Suppose on our macroscopic scale the same sort of stick-slip resistance is happening, at intervals of eons instead of microseconds. Suppose the Earth's crust at some point in time gives up the struggle for rigidity, sighs, relaxes its grip and allows that accumulated #-foot equatorial hump to assume its proper shape... releasing all those # x # ergs in the form of heat. And suppose, right about then or shortly afterward in the macro-time scale, some curious extraterrestrials send a space probe past the Earth to see what it's like. They mght even call it Mariner II... What a devil of time they would have, trying to account for the temperatures and pressures they would find! P ersonal note: The other day we made an informal study of stick-slip effects as they apply to automobile brakes on slippery roads. The results were inconclusive, but not altogether unpleasant: we survived. However we are now, and will be for some months in the future, wearing a handsome plaster oast on the left arm, on which we have inscribed the Eleventh Commandment. ("Keep thy seat belt fastened, chowderhead, if thou wouldst have thy days long on this Earth.") To those who have sent us expressions of sympathy and so on, our appreciation... and apologies. We'd like to answer each letter individually, but -- well, have # rou ever (for instance) tried to change a typewriter ribbon with one hand? -- The Editor IF  Complete Short Novel The woman was a witch -- no surprise on this mad planet where wizardry ruled and death lurked everywhere! I C raike's swollen feet were agony, every breath he drew fought a hot band imprisoning his laboring lungs. He clung weakly to a rough spur of rock in the canyon wall, swayed against it, raking his flesh raw on the stone. That weathered red and yellow rock was no more unyielding than the murderous wills behind him. And the stab of pain in his calves no less than the pain of their purpose in his dazed mind. He had been on the run so long, ever since he had left the E-Camp. But until last night -- no, two nights ago -- when he had given himself away at the gas station, he had not known what it was to be actually hunted. The will-to-kill which fanned from those on his trail was so intense it shocked his Esper senses, panicking him completely. Now he was trapped in wild country, and he was city born. Water -- Craike flinched at the thought of water. Espers should control their bodies, that was what he had been taught. But there come times when cravings of the flesh triumph over will. He winced, and the spur grated against his half-naked breast. They had a "hound" on him right enough. And that brain-twisted Esper slave who fawned and served the mob masters would have no difficulty in trailing him straight to any pocket into which he might crawl. A last remnant of rebellion sent Craike reeling on over the gravel of the long-dried stream bed. Espers had once been respected for their "wild talents," then tolerated warily. Now they were used under guard for slave labor. And the day was coming soon when the fears of the normals would demand their extermination. They had been trying to prepare against that. First they had worked openly, petitioning to be included in spaceship crews, to be chosen for colonists on the Moon and Mars; then secretly when they realized the norms had no intention of allowing that. Their last hope was flight to the waste spots of the world, those refuse places resulting from the same atomic wars which had brought about the birth of their kind. Craike had been smuggled out of an eastern E-Camp provided with a cover, sent to explore the ravaged area about the one-time city of Reno. Only he had broken his cover for the protection of a girl, only to learn, too late, shp was bait for an Esper trap. He had driven a stolen speeder until the last drop of fuel was gone, and after that he had kept blindly on, running, until now. The contact with the Esper "hound" was clear; they must almost be in sight behind. Craike paused. They were not going to take him alive, wring from him knowledge of his people, recondition him into another "hound." There was only one way, he should have known that from the first. His decision had shaken the "hound." Craike bared teeth in a death's-head grin. Now the mob would speed up. But their quarry had already chosen a part of the canyon wall where he might pull his tired and aching body up from one hold to another. He moved deliberately now, knowing that when he had lost hope, he could throw aside the need for haste. He would be able to accomplish his purpose before they brought a gas rifle to bear on him. A t last he stood on a ledge, the sand and gravel some fifty feet below. For a long moment he rested, steadying himself with both hands braced on the stone. The weird beauty of the desert country IF was a pattern of violent color under the afternoon sun. Craike breathed slowly; he had regained a measure of control. There came shouts as they sighted him. He leaned forward and, as if he were diving into the river which had once run there, he hurled himself outward to the clean death he sought. Water, water in his mouth! Dazed, he flailed water until his head broke surface. Instinct took over, and he swam, fought for air. The current of the stream pulled him against a boulder collared with froth, and he arched an arm over it, lifting himself, to stare about in stupified bewilderment. He was close to one bank of a river. Where the colorful cliff of the canyon had been there now rolled downs thickly covered with green growth. The baking heat of the desert had vanished; there was even a slight chill in the air. Dumbly Craike left his rock anchorage and paddled ashore, to lie shivering on sand while the sun warmed his battered body. What make sense of it, the effort hurt his mind almost as much as had the "hound's" probe. The Esper Hound! Craike jerked up, old panic stirring. First delicately and then urgently, he cast a thought-seek about him. There was life in plenty. He touched, classified and disregarded the flickers of awareness which mingled in confusion -- animals, birds, river dwellers. But nowhere did he meet intelligence approaching his own. A wilderness world without man as far as Esper ability could reach. Craike relaxed. Something had happened. He was too tired, too drained to speculate as to what. It was enough that he was saved from the death he had sought, that he He got stiffly to his feet. Time was the same, he thought -- late afternoon. Shelter, food -- he set off along the stream. He found and where birds raided before him. Then squatting above a side eddy of the stream, he scooped out a fish, eating the flesh raw. The land along the river was rising, he could see the beginning of a gorge ahead. Later, when he had clinubed those heights, he caught sight through the twilight of the fires. Four of them burning some miles to the southwest, set out in the form of a square! Craike sent out a thought probe. Yes -- men! But an alien touch. This was no hunting mob. And he was drawn to the security of the fires, the camp of men in the dangers of the night. Only, as Esper, he was not one with them but an outlaw. And he dare not risk joining them. He retraced his path to the river and holed up in a hollow not large enough to be termed a cave. Automatically he probed again for danger. Found nothing, but animal life. He slept at last, drugged by exhaustion of mind and body. T he sky was gray when he roused, swung cramped arms, stretched. Craike had awakened with the need to know more of that camp. He climbed once again to the vantage point, shut his eyes to the early morning and sent out a seeking. A camp of men far from home. But they were not hunters. Merchants -- traders! Craike located one mind among the rest, read in it the details of a bargain to come. Merchants from another country, a caravan. But a sense of separation grew stronger as the fugitive Esper sorted out thought streams, absorbed scraps of knowledge thirstily. A herd of burden-bearing animals, nowhere any indication of machines. He sucked in a deep breath -- he was  -- he was in another world! Merchants traversing a wilderness -- a wilderness? Though he had been driven into desert the day before, the land through which he had earlier fled could not be termed a wilderness. It was overpopulated because there were too many war-poisoned areas where mankind could not live. But from these strangers he gained a concept of vast, barren territory broken only by small, sparse, strips of cultivation. Craike hurried. They were breaking camp. And the impression of an unpeopled land they had given him made him want to trail the caravan. There was trouble! An' attack -- the caravan animals stampeded. Craike received a startlingly vivid mind picture of a hissing, lizard thing he could not identify. But it was danger on four scaled feet. He winced at the fear in those minds ahead. There was a vigor of mental broadcast in these men which amazed him. Now, the lizard thing had been killed. But the pack animals were scattered. It would take hours to find them. The exasperation of the master trader was as strong to Craike as if he stood before the man and heard his outburst of complaint. The Esper smiled slowly. Here -- handed to him by Fate -- was his chance to gain the good will of the travelers. Breaking contact with the men, Craike cast around probe webs, as a fisher might cast a net. One panic crazed animal and then another -- he touched minds, soothed, brought to bear his training. Within moments he heard the dull thud of hooves on the mossy ground, no longer pounding in a wild gallop. A shaggy mount, neither pony nor horse of his knowledge, but like in ways of each, its dull hide marked with a black stripe running from the root of shaggy mane to the base of its tail, came toward him, nickered questionly. And then fell behind Craike, to be joined by another and another, as the Esper walked on -- until he led the full train of runaways. H e met the first of the caravan men within a quarter of a mile and savored the fellow's astonishment at the sight. Yet, after the first surprise the man did not appear too amazed. He was short, dark of skin, a black beard of wiry, tightly curled hair clipped to a IF point thrusting out from his chin. Leggings covered his limhs, and he wore a sleeveless jerkin laced with thongs. This was belted by a broad strap gaudy with painted designs, from which hung a cross-hilted sword and a knife almost as long. A peaked cap of silky white fur was drawn far down so that a front flap shaded his eyes, and another, longer strip brushed his shoulders. "Many thanks, Man of Power -- " the words he spoke were in a clicking tongue, but Craike read their meaning mind to mind. Then, as if puzzled on his closer examination of the Esper, the stranger frowned, his indecision slowly turning hostile. "Outlaw! Begone, horned one!" The trader made a queer gesture with two fingers. "We pass free from your spells -- " "Be not so quick to pass judgment, Alfric -- The newcomer was the Master Trader. As his man, he wore leather, but there was a gemmed clasp on his belt. His sword and knife hilt were of precious metal, as was a badge fastened to the fore of his yellow and black fur head gear. "This one is no local outlaw." The MastSir stood, feet apart, studying the fugitive Esper as if he were a burden pony offered as a bargain. "Would such use his power for our aid? If he is a horned one -- he is unlike any I have seen." "I am not what you think -- " Craike said slowly, fitting his tongue to the others alien speech. The Master Trader nodded. "That is true. And you intend us no hann; does not the sun-stone so testify?" His hand went to the badge on his cap. "In this one is no evil, Alfric, rather does he come to us in aid. Have I not spoken the truth to you, stranger from the wastes? Craike broadcast good will as strongly as he could. And they must have been somewhat influenced by that. power!" Alfric burst forth. "He has power,' the Master corrected him. "But has he striven to possess our minds as he could do? We are still our own men. No -- this is no renegade Black Hood. Come!" He beckoned to Craike, and the Esper, the animals still behind him, followed on into the camp where the rest of the men seized upon the ponies to adjust their packs. The Master filled a bowl from the contents of a three-legged pot set in the coals of a dying fire. Craike stew. When he had done, the Master indicated himself. "I am Kaluf of the Children of Noe, a far trader and trail master. Is it your will, Man of Power, to travel this road with us?" Craike nodded. This might all be see it to its end. A day with the Caravan, the chance to gather more information from the men here, should give him some inkling as to what had happened to him and where he now was. IF II C raike's day with the traders became two and then three. Esper talents were accepted by this company matter-of-factly, even asked in aid. And from the travelers he gained a picture of this world which he could not reconcile with his own. His first impression of a large continent broken by widely separated holdings of a frontier type remained. In addition there was knowledge of a feudal government, petty lordlings holding title to lands over men of lesser birth. Kaluf and his men had a mild contempt for their customers. Their own homeland lay to the southeast, where, in some coastal cities, they had built up an overseas trade, retaining its cream for their own consumption, peddling the rest in the barbarous hinterland. Craike, his facility in their click speech growing, asked questions which the Master answered freely enough. "These inland men know no difference between Saludian silk and the weaving of the looms in our own Kormonian quarter." He shrugged in scorn at sudh ignorance. "Why should we offer Salud wihen we can get Salud prices for Kormon lengths and the buyer is satisfied? Maybe -- if these lords ever finish their private quarrels and live at peace so that there is more travel and they themselves come to visit in Larud or the other cities of the Children of Noe, then shall we not make a profit on lesser goods." "Do these Lords never try to raid your caravans?" Kaluf laughed. "They tried that once or twice. Certainly they saw there was the profit in seizing a train and paying nothing. But we purchased trail rights from the Black Hoods, and there was no more trouble. How is it with you, Ka-rak? Have you lords in your land who dare to stand against the power of the Hooded Ones?" Craike, taking a chance, nodded. And knew he had been right when some reserve in Kaluf vanished. "That explains much, perhaps even why such a man of power as you should be adrift in the wilderness. But you need not fear in this country, your brothers hold complete rule -- " A colony of Espers! Craike tensed. Had he, through some weird chance, found here the long-hopedfor refuge of his kind. But where was here? His old bewilderment was lost in a shout from the fore of the train. "The outpost has sighted us and raised the trade banner." Kaluf quickened pace. "Within the hour we'll be at the walls of Sampur. lUifl" raike made for the head of the line. Sampur, by the reckoning of the train, was a city of respectable size, the domain of a Lord Ludicar with whom Kaluf had had mutually satisfactory dealings for some time. And the Master anticipated a profitable stay. But the man who had ridden out to greet them was full of news. Racially he was unlike the traders, taller, longer of arm. His bare chest was a thatch of blond-red hair as thick as a bear's pelt, long braids swung across his shoulders. A leather cap, reinforced with sewn rings of metal was crammed down over his wealth of hair, and he carried a shield slung from his saddle pad. In addition to sword and knife, he nursed a spear in the crook of his arm, from the point of which trailed a banner strip of blue stuff. "You come in good time. Master. The Hooded Ones have proclaimed a horning, and all the outbounders have gathered as witnesses. This is a good day for your trading, the Oloudy Ones have indeed favored you. But hurry, the Lord Ludicar is now riding in and soon there will be no good place from which to watch -- " Craike fell back. Punishment? An execution? No, not quite that. He wished he dared ask questions. Certainly the picture which had leaped into Kalufs mind at the mention of "horning" could not be true! Caution kept the Esper aloof. Sooner or later his alien origin must be noted, though Kaluf had supplied him with a fur cap, leather jerkin, and boots from the caravan surplus. The ceremony was to take place just outside the main gate of the stockade, which formed the outer rampart of the town. A group of braided, ring-helmed warriors hemmed in a more imposing figure with a feather plume and a blue cloak, doubtless Lord Ludicar. Thronging at a respectful distance were the townfolk. But they were merely audience; the actors stood apart. Craike's hands went to his head. The emotion which beat at him from that party brought the metallic taste of fear to his mouth, aroused his own memories. Then he steadied, probed. There was terror there, broadcast from two figures under guard. Just as an impact of Esper power came from the three black-hooded men who walked behind the captives. He used his own talent carefully, dreading to attract the attention of the men in black. The townsfolk opened an aisle in their ranks, giving free passage to the open moorland and the green stretch of forest not too far away. Fear -- in one of those bound, stumbling prisoners it was abject, the same panic which had hounded Craike into the desert. But, though the other captive had no hope, there was a thick core of defiance, a desperate desire to strike back. And something in Craike arose to answer that. Othei men, wearing black jerkins and no hoods, crowded about the prisoners. When they stepped back Craike saw that the drab clothing of the two had been torn away. Shame, blotting out fear, came from the smaller captive. And there was no mistaking the sex of the curves that white body displayed. A girl, and very young. A violent shake of her head loosened her hair to flow, black and long, clothing her nakedIF ness. Craike drew a deep breath as he had before that plunge into the canyon. Moving quickly he crouched behind a bush. The Black Hoods went about their business with dispatch, each drawing in turn certain designs and lines in the dust of the road until they had created an intricate pattern about the feet of the prisoners. A chant began in which the townspeople joined. The fear of the male captive was an almost visible cloud. But the outrage and anger of his feminine companion grew in relation to the chant, and Craike could sense her will battling against that of the assembly. r ie watching Esper gasped. He could not be seeing what his eyes reported to his brain! The man was down on all fours, his legs and arms stretched, a mist clung to them, changed to red-brown hide. His head lengthened oddly, horns sprouted. No man, but an antlered stag stood there. And the girl -- ? Her transformation came more slowly. It began and then faded. The power of the Black Hoods held her, fastening on her the form they visualized. She fought. But in the end a white doe sprang down the path to the forest, the stag leaping before her. They whipped past the bush where Craike had gone to earth, and he was able to see through the illusion. Not a red stag and a White doe, but a man and woman running for their lives, yet already knowing in their hearts there was no hope in their flight. Craike, hardly knowing why he did it or who he could aid, followed, sure that mind touch would provide him with a guide. He had reached the murky shadow of the trees when a sound rang from the town. At its summoning he missed a step before he realized it was directed against those he trailed and not himself. A hunting horn! So this world also had its hunted and its hunters. More than ever he determined to aid those who fled. But it was not enough to just run blindly on the track of stag and doe. He lacked weapons. And his wits had not sufficed to save him in his own world. But there he had been conditioned against turning on his hunters, hampered, cruelly designed from birth to accept the quarry role. That was not true here. Esper power -- Craike licked dry lips. Illusions so well done they had almost enthralled him. Could illusion undo what illusion had done? Again the call of the horn, ominous in its clear tone, rang in his ears, set his pulses to pounding. The fear of those who fled was a cord, drawing him on. But as he trotted among the trees Craike concentrated on his own illusion. It was not a white doe he pursued but the slim, young figure he had seen when they stripped away the clumsy stuff which had cloaked her, before she had shaken loose her hair veil. No doe, but a woman. She was not racing on four hooved feet, but running free on two, her hair blowing behind her. No doe, hut a maidi And in that moment, as he constructed tihat picture clearly, he contacted her in thought. It was like being dashed by sea-spray, cool, remote, very clean. And, as spray, the contact vanished in an instant, only to returm "Who are you?" "One who follows," he answered, holding to his picture of the running girl. "Follow no more, you have done what was needful?" There was a burst of joy, so overwhelming a release from terror that it halted him. Then the cord between them broke. Frantically Craike cast about seeking contact. There was only a dead wall. Lost, he put out a hand to the rough bark of the nearest tree. Wood things lurked here, then only did his mind touch. What did he do now? His decision was made for him. He picked up a wave of panic again -- spreading terror. But this was the fear of feathered and furred things. It came to him as ripples might run on a pool. Fire! He caught the thought distorted by bird and beast mind. Fire which leaped from tree crown to tree crown, cutting a gash across the forest. Craike started on, taking the way west, away from the menace. Once he called out as a deer flashed by him, only to know in the same moment that this was no illusion but an animal. Small creatures tunnelled through the grass. A dog fox trotted, spared him a measuring gaze from slit eyes. Birds whirred, and behind them was the scent of smoke. A mountain of flesh, muscle and fur snarled, reared to face him. But Craike had nothing to fear from any animal. He confronted the great red bear until it whined, shuffled its feet and plodded on. More and more creatures crossed his path or ran beside him for a space. It was their instinct which brought them, and Craike, to a river. Wolves, red deer, bears, great cats, foxes and all the rest came down to the saving water. A cat spat at the flood, but leaped in to swim. Craike lingered on the bank. The smoke was thicker, more animals broke from the wood to take to the water. But the doe -- where was she? He probed, only to meet that blank. Then a spurt of flame ran up a dead sapling, advance scout of the furnace. He yelped as a floating cinder stung his skin and took to the water. But he did not cross, rather did he swim upstream, hoping to pass the flank of the fire and pick up the missing trail again. Ill S moke cleared as Craike trod water. He was beyond the path of the fire, but not out of danger. For the current against which he had fought his way beat here through an archway of masonry. Flanking that arch were two squat towers. As an erection it was far more ambitious than anything he had seen during his brief glimpse of Sampur. Yet, as he eyed it more closely, he IF could see it was a ruin. There were gaps in the narrow span across the river, a green hush sprouted from the summit of the far tower. Craike came ashore, winning his way up the steep bank by handholds of vine and bush no alert castellan would have allowed to grow. As he reached a terrace of cobbles stippled with bunches of coarse grass, a sweetish scent of decay drew him around the base of the tower to look down at a broad ledge extending into the river. Piled on it were small baskets and bowls, some so rotted that only outlines were visible. Others new and all filled with mouldering food stuffs. But those who left such offerings must have known that the tower was deserted. Puzzled Craike went back to the building. The stone was undressed, yet the huge blocks which formed its base were fitted together with such precision that he suspected he could not force the thin blade of a pocket knife into any crack. There had been no effort at ornamentation, at any lighting of the impression of sullen, brute force. Wood, split and insect bored, formed a door. As he put his hand to it Craike discovered the guardian the lonig-ago owners of the fortress had left in possession. His hands went to his head, the blow he felt might have been physical. Out of the stronghold before him came such a wave of utter terror and dark promise as to force him back. But no farther than the edge of the paved square about the building's foundation. Grimly he faced that challenge, knowing it for stored emotion and not the weapon of an active will. He had his own defense against such a formless enemy. Breaking a dead branch from a bush, he twisted about it whisps of the sun-bleached grass until he had a torch of sorts. A piece of smoldering tinder blown from the fire gave him a light. Craike put his shoulder to the powdery remnants of the door, bursting it wide. Light against dark. What lurked there was nourished by dark, fed upon the night fears of his species. A round room, bare except for some crumbling sticks of wood, a series of steps jutting out from the wall to curl about and vanish above. Craike made no move toward further exploration, holding up the torch, seeking to see the real, not the threat of this place. Those who had built it possessed Esper talents. And they had used that power for twisted purposes. He read terror and despair trapped here by the castellans art, horror, an abiding fog of what his race considered evil. Tentatively Craike began to fight. With the torch he brought light and heat into the dark and cold. Now he struggled to offer peace. Just as he had pictured a girl in flight in place of the doe, so did he now force upon those invisible clouds of stored suffering calm and hope. The gray window slits in the stone were uncurtained to the streaming sunlight. Those who had set that guardian had oot intended it to hold against aa Esper. Once he began the task, Craice found the opposition melting. The terror seep as if it sank into the floor wave by wave. He stood in a room which smelt of damp and, more faintly, of the rotting food piled below its window slits; but now it was only an empty shell. Craike was tired, drained by his effort. And he was puzzled. Why had he fought for this? Of what importance to him was the cleansing of a ruined tower? Though to stay here had certain advantages. It had been erected to control river traffic. Though that did no matter for the present, just now he needed food more -- H e went back to the rock of offerings, treading a wary path through the disintegrating stuff. Close to the edge he came upon a clay bowl containing coarsely ground grain and, beside it, a basket of wilted leaves filled with overripe berries. He ate in gulps. Grass made him a matted bed in the tower, and he kindled a fire. As he squatted before its flames, he sent out a questing thought. A big cat drank from the river. Craike shuddered away from that contract with blood lust. A nigjht-hunting bird provided a trace of awareness. There were small rovers and hunters. But nothing human. Tired as he was Craike could not sleep. There was the restless sensation of some demand about to be made, some task waiting. From time to time he fed the fire. Towards morning he dozed, to snap awake. A night creature drinking, a screech overhead. He heard the flutter of wings echo hollowly through the tower. Beyond -- darkness -- blank, that curious blank which had fallen between him and the girl. Craike got to his feet eagerly. That blank could be traced. Outside it was raining, and fog hung in murky bands among the river hollows. The blank spot veered. Craike started after it. The tower pavement became a trace of old road he followed, weaving through the fog. There was the sour smell of old smoke. Charred wood, black muck clung to his feet. But his guide point was now stationary as the ground rose, studded with outcrops of rock. So Craike came to a mesa jutting up into a steel gray sky. He hitched his way up by way of a long-ago slide. The rain had stopped, but there was no hint of sun. And he was unprepared for the greeting he met as he topped the lip of a small plateau. A violent blow on the shoulder whirled him half-way around, and only by a finger's width did he escape a fall. A cry echoed his, and the blank broke. She was there. Moving slowly, using the same technique he knew to sooth frightened animals, Craike raised himself again. The pain in his shoulder was sharp when he tried to put much weight upon his left arm. But now he saw her clearly. She sat cross-legged, a boulder at her back, her hair a rippling IF cloud of black ( through which her hands and arms shown starkly white. She had the thin, three-cornered face of a child who has known much harshness; there was no beauty there -- the flesh had been too much worn by spirit. Only her eyes, watohful-wary as those of a feline, considered him bleakly. In spite of his beam of good will, she gave him no welcome. And she tossed another stone from hand to hand with the ease of one who had already scored with such a weapon. "Who are you?" she spoke aloud. "He who followed you," Craike fingered the bruise wound on his shoulder, not taking his eyes from hens. "You are no Black Hood." It was a statement not a question. "But you, also, have been horned." Another statement. Craike nodded. In his own time and place he had indeed been "horned." Just as her thrown stone had struck without warning, so came her second attack. There was a hiss. Within striking distance a snake flickered a forked tongue. Craike did not give ground. The snake head expanded, fur ran over it; there were legs, a plume of tail fluffed. A dog fox yapped once at the girl and vanished. Craike read her recoil, the first faint uncertainty"You have the power!" "I have power," he corrected her. But her attention was no longer his. She was listening to something he could hear with neither ear nor mind. Then she ran to the edge of the mesa. He followed. O n this side the country was more rolling, and across it now came mounted men moving in and out of mist pools. They rode in silence, and over them was the same blanketing of thought as the girl had used. Craike glanced about. There were loose stones, and the girl had already proven her marksmanship with such. But they would be no answer to the weapons the others had. Only flight was no solution either. The girl sobbed once, a broken cry so unlike the iron will she had shown that Craike started. She leaned perilously over the drop, staring down at the horsemen. Then her hands moved with desperate speed. She tore hairs from her head, twisted and snarled them between her fingers, breathed on them, looped them with a stone for weight, casting the tangled mass out to land before the riders. The mist curled, took on substance. Where there had been only rock there was now a thicket of thorn, so knotted that no fleshed creature could push through it. The hunters paused, then they rode on again, but now they drove a reeling, naked man, a man kept going by a lashing whip whenever he faltered. Again the girl sobbed, burying her face in her hands. The wretched captive reached the thorn barrier. Under his touch it melted. He stood there, weaving drunkenly. A whip sang. He went to his knees under its cut, a trapped animal's wail on the wind. Slowly, with a blind seeking, his hands went out to small stones about him. He gathered them, spread them anew in patterns. The girl had raised her head, watched dry-eyed, but seething with hate and the need to strike back. But she did not move. Craike dared lay a hand on her narrow shoulder, feeling through her hair the chill of her skin, while the hair itself clung to his fingers as if it had the will to smother and imprison. He tried to pull her away, but he could not move her. The naked man crouched in the midst of his pattern, and now he chanted, a compelling call the girl could not understand. She wrenched free of Craike's hold. But as she went she spared a thought for the man who had tried to save her. She struck out, her fist landing on the stone bruise. Pain sent him reeling back as she went over the rim of the mesa, her face a mask which no friend nor enemy might read. But there was no resignation in her eyes as she was forced to the meeting below. IV B y the time Craike reached a vantage point the girl stood in the center of the stone ring. Outside crouched the man, his head on his knees. She looked down at him, no emotion showing on her wan face. Then she dropped her hand on his thatch of wild hair. He jerked under that touch as he had under the whip which had printed the scailet weals across his back and loins. But he raised his head, and from his throat came a beast's mournful howl. At her gesture he was quiet, edging closer to her as if seeking some easement of his suffering. The Black Hood drew in. Craike's probe could make nothing of them. But they could not hide their emotions as well as they concealed their thoughts. And the Esper recoiled from the avid blood lust which lapped at the two by the cliff. A semicircle of the black jerkined retainers moved too. And the man who had led them lay on the earth how, moaning softly. But the girl faced them, head unbowed. Craike wanted to aid her. Had he time to climb down the cliff? Clenching his teeth against the pain movement brought to his shoulder, the Esper went back, holding a mind shield as a frail protection. Directly before him now was one of the guards. His mount caught Craike's scent, stirred uneasily, until the quieting thought of the Esper held it steady. Craike had never been forced into such action as he had these past few days; he had no real plan now, it must depend upon chance and fortune. As if the force of her enemies' wills had slammed her back against the rock, the girl was braced by the cliff wall, a black and white figure. Mist swirled, took on half substance of a monstrous form, was swept away in an instant. A clump IF of dried grass broke into flame, sending the ponies stamping and snorting. It was gone, leaving a black smudge on the earth. Illusions, realities -- Craike watched. This was so far beyond his own experience that he could hardly comprehend the lightning moves of mind against mind. But he sensed these others could beat down the girl's resistance at any moment they desired, that her last futile struggles were being relished by those who decreed this as part of her punishment. And Craike, who had believed that he could never hate more than he had when he had been touched by the fawning "hound" of the mob, was filled with a rage tempered into a chill of steel determination. T he girl went to her knees, still clutching her hair about her, facing her tormenters with her still-held defiance. Now the man who had wrought the magic which had drawn her there crawled, all humanity gone out of him, wriggling on his belly back to his captors. Two of the guards jerked him up. He hung limp in their hands, his mouth open in an idiot's grin. Callously, as he might tread upon a worm, the nearest Black Hood waved a hand. A metal axe flashed, and there came the dull sound of cracking bone. The guards pitched the body from them so that the bloodied head almost touched the girl. She writhed, a last frenzied attempt to break the force which pinned her. Without haste the guards advanced. One caught at her hair, pulling it tautly from her head. Craike shivered. The thrill of her agony reached him. This was what she feared most, fought so long to prevent. If ever he must move now. And that part of his brain which had been feverishly seeking a plan went into action. Ponies pawed, reared, went wild with panic. One of the Black Hoods swung around to face the terrorized animals. But his own mount struck out with teeth and hooves. Guardsmen shouted, and above their cries arose the shrill squeals of the animals. Craike stood his ground, keeping the ponies in terror-stricken revolt. The guard who held the handful of hair slashed at the tress with his knife, severing it at a palm's distance away from her head. But in that same moment she moved. The knife leaped free from the man's grasp, while the severed hair twined itself about his hands, binding them until the blade buried itself in his throat; and he went down. One of the Black Hoods was also finished, tramped into a feebly squirming thing by the ponies. Then from the ground burst a sheet of flame which split into balls, drifting through the air or rolling along the earth. The Esper wet his lips -- that was not his doing! He did not have to feed the panic of the animals now; they were truly mad. The girl was on her feet. Before his thought could reach her she was gone, swallowed up in a mist which arose to blanket the fire balls. Once more she cut their contact; there was a blank void where she had been. Now the fog thickened. Through it came one of the ponies, foam dripping from its blunt muzzle. It bore down on Craike, eyes gjeaming red through a tangled forelock. With a scream it reared. Craike's hand grabbed a handful of mane as he leaped, avoiding teeth and hooves. Then, somehow, he gained the pad saddle, locking his fingers in the coarse hair, striving to hold his seat against the bucking enraged beast. It broke into a run, and the Esper plastered himself to the heaving body. For the moment he made no attempt at mind control. Behind, the Black Hoods came out of their stunned bewilderment. They were questing feverishly, and he had to concentrate on holding his shield against them. A pony fleeing in terror would not excite them; a pony under control would provide them with a target. Later he could circle about and try to pick up the trail of the witch girl. Flushed with success, Craike was sure he could provide her with a rear guard no Black Hood could pass. The fog was thick, and the pace ef the pony began to slacken. Once or twice it bucked half-heartedly, giving up when it could not dislodge its rider. Craike drew his fingers in slow, soothing sweeps down the sweating curve of its neck. There were no more trees about, and the unshod hooves pounded on sand. They were in a dried water course, and Craike did not try to turn from that path. Then his luck ran out. What he had ignorantly supposed to be a rock ahead, heaved up seven feet or more. A red mouth opened in a great roar. He had believed the bear he had seen fleeing the fire to be a giant, but this one was a nightmare monster. The pony screamed with an almost human note of despair and whirled. Craike gripped the mane again and tried to mind control the bear. But his surprise had lasted seconds too long. A vast clawed paw struck, ripping across pony hide and human thigh. Then Craike could only cling to the running mount. How long he was able to keep his seat he never knew. Then he slipped; there was a throb of pain as he struck the ground, to be followed by blackness. I t was dusk when he opened his eyes, fighting agony in his head, his leg. But later there was moonlight. And that silver-white spotlighted a waiting shape. Green slits of eyes regarded him remotely. Dizzily he made contact. A wolf -- hungry -- yet with a wariness which recognized in the prone man an enemy. Craike fought for control. The wolf whined, then it arose, its prick ears sharp cut in the moonlight, it's nose questing for the scent of other, less disturbing prey, and it was gone. Craike edged up against a boulder and sorted out sounds. The rush of water. He moved a paper dry IF tongue over cracked lips. Water to drink -- to wash his wounds -- water! With a groan Oraike worked his way to his feet, holding fast to the top of the rock when his torn leg threatened to buckle under him. The same inner drive which had kept him going through the desert brought him down to the river. By sunrise he was seeking a shelter, wanting to lie up, as might the wolf, in some secret cave until his wounds healed. All chance of finding the witch girl was lost. But as he crawled along the shingle, leaning on a staff he had found in drift wood, he kept alert for any trace of the Black Hoods. It was midmorning on the second day that his snail's progress brought him to the river towers. And it took another hour for him to reach the terrace. Gaunt and worn, his empty stomach complaining, he wanted nothing more than to sink down in the nest of grass he had gathered and cease to struggle. Perhaps he might have done so had not a click-clack of sound from the river put him on the defensive, his staff now a club. But these were not Black Hoods. Farmers, local men bound for the market of Sampur with products of their fields. They had paused, were making a choice among the least appetizing of their wares for a tribute to be offered to the tower demon. Craike hitched stiffly to a point where he could witness that sacrifice. But when he assessed the contents of their dugout, the heaping basket piled between the paddlers, his hunger took command. Fob off a demon with a handful of meal and a too-ripe melon would they? Vith three haunches of cured meat and all that other stuff on board! Craike voiced a roar which could have done credit to the red bear, a roar which altered into a demand for meat. The paddlers nearly lost control of their crude craft. But one reached for a haunch and threw it blindly on the refuse covered rock, while his companion added a basket of small cakes into the bargain. "Enough, little men -- " Craike's voice boomed hollowly. "You may pass free." They needed no urging, they did not look at those threatening towers as their paddles bit into the water, adding impetus to the pull of the current. Craike watched them well out of sight before he made a slow descent to the rock. The effort he was forced to expend warned him that a second such trip might be impossible, and he inched back to the terrace dragging both meat and cakes. The cured haunch he worried into strips, using his pocket knife. It was tough, not too pleasant to the taste and unsalted. But he found it more appetizing than the cakes of baked meal. With this supply he could afford to lie up and favor his leg. About the claw rents the flesh was red and puffed. Craike had no dressing but river water and the leaves he had tied over the tears. Samjpur was beyond his power to reach, and to contact men traveling on the river would only bring the Black Hoods. He lay in his grass nest and tried to sort out the events of the past few days. This was a land in which Esper powers were allowed free range. He had no idea of how he had come here, but it seemed to his feverish mind that he had been granted another chance -- one in which the scales of justice were more balanced in his favor. If he could only find the girl, learn from her -- Tentatively, without real hope, he sent out a questing thought. Nothing. He moved impatiently, wrenching his leg, so that his head swam with pain. Throat and mouth were dry. The lap of water sounded in his ears. Water -- he was thirsty again. But he could not crawl down slope and up once more. Craike closed his eyes wearily. V C raike's memory of the hours which followed thereafter was doorway? A slavering wolf? A red bear? Then the girl sat there, crosslegged as he had seen her on the mesa, her cloak of hair about her. A hand emerged from the cloak to lay wood on the fire. Illusions? But would an illusion turn to him, put firm, cool fingers upon his wound, somehow driving out by touch the pain and fire which burned there? Would an illusion raise his head, cradling it against her so that the soft silk of her hair lay against his cheek and throat, urging on him liquid out of a crude bowl? Would an illusion sing softly to herself while she drew a fish-bone comb back and forth through her hair, until the song and the sweep of the comb lulled him into a sleep so deep that no dream walked there? He awoke, clear headed. Yet that last illusion lingered. For she came from the sun-drenched world without, a bowl of fruit in her hand. For a long moment she stood gazing at him searchingly. But when he tried mind contact, he met that wall. Not unheeding -- but a refusal to answer. Her hair was now braided. But about her face the lock which the guardsman had shorn made an untidy fringe. While around her thin body was a strip of hide, purposefully arranged to mask all femininity. "So," Craike spoke rustily, "you are real -- " She did not smile. "I am real. You no longer dream with fever." "Who are you?" He asked the first of his long hoarded questions. "I am Takya." She added nothing to that. "You are Takya, and your are a witch -- " "I am Takya, and I have the power." It was an assertion of fact rather than agreement. She settled in her favorite crosslegged position, selected a fruit from her bowl and examined it with the interest of a housewife IF who has shopped for supplies on a limited budget. Then she placed it in his hand before she chose another for herself. He bit into the plumlike globe. If she would only drop her barrier, let him communicate in the way which was fuller and deeper than speech. "You also have the power -- " Craike decided to be no more communicative than she. He replied to that with a curt nod. "Yet you have not been horned -- " "Not as you have been. But in my own world, yes."" "Your world?" Her eyes held some of the feral glow of a hunting cat's. "What world, and why were you homed there, man of sand and ash, power?" Without knowing why Craike related the events of the days past. Takya listened, he was certain, with more than ears alone. She picked up a stick from the pile of firewood and drew patterns in the sand and ash, patterns which had something to do with her listening. "Your power was great enough to break a world wall." She snapped the stick between two fingers, threw it into the flames. "A world wall?" "We of the power have long known that different worlds lie together in such a fashion." She held up her hand with the fingers tight lying one to another. " Sometimes there comes a moment when two touch so closely that the power can carry one through. If at that moment there is a desperate need for escape. But those places of meeting can not be readily found, and the moment of their touch can lay only for an instant. Have you in your world no reports of men and women who have vanished almost in sight of their fellows?" emembering old tales he nodded. "I have seen a summoning from another world," she continued with a shiver, running both hands down the length of her braids as if so she evoked a shield for both mind and body. "To summon so is a great evil, for no man can hold in check the power of someiing alien. You broke the will of the Black Hoods when I was a beast running from their hunt. When I made the serpent to warn you off, you changed it into a fox. And when the Black Hoods would have shorn my power -- " she looped the braids about her wrists, caressing, treasuring them against her small breasts, "again you broke their hold and set me free for a second time. But this you could not have done had you been born into this world, for our power must follow set laws. Yours lies outside out patterns and can cut across those laws -- even as the knife cut this -- " She touched the rough patch of hair at her temple. "Follow patterns? Then it was those patterns in stone which drew you down from the mesa?" "Yes. Takyi, my womb-brother, whom they slew there, was blood of my blood, bone of my bone. When they crushed him, then they could use him to draw me, and I could not resist. But in tihe slaying of his husk they freed me -- to their great torment, as Tousuth shall discover in time." "Tell me of this country. Who are the Black Hoods and why did they horn you? Are you not of their breed since you have the power?" But Tayka did not answer at once in words. Nor did she, as he had hoped, lower her mind barrier. Her fingers now held one long hair she had pulled from her head, and this she began to weave in and out, swiftly intricately, in a complicated series of loops and crossed strands. After a moment Craike did not see the white fingers, nor the black hair they passed in loops from one to another. Rather did he see the pictures she wrought in her weaving. A wide land, largely wilderness. The impressions he had gathered from Kaluf and the traders crystalized into vivid life. Small holdings here and there, ruled by petty lords, new settlements carved out by a scattered people moving up from the south in great wheeled wains, bringing flocks and herds, their carefully treasured seed. Stopping here and there for a season to sow and reap, until they decided upon a site for their final rooting. Tiny city-states, protected by the Black Hoods -- the Esper born who purposefully interbred their own gifted stock, keeping their children apart. Takya and her brother coming, as was sometimes -- if rarely -- true, from the common people. Carefully watched by the Black Hoods. Then discovered to be a new mutation, condemned as such to ibe used for experimentation. But for a while protected by the local lord who wanted Takya. But he might not take her unwilling. For the power that was hers as a virgin was wholly rift from her should she be forced. And he had wanted that power, obedient to him, as a check upon the monopoly of the Black Hoods. So with some patience he had set himself to a peaceful wooing. But the Black Hoods had moved first. Had they accomplished her taking, the end they had intended for her was not as easy as death. And she wove a picture of it, with all its degradation and shame stark and open, for Craike's seeing. "Then the Hooded ones are evil?" "Not wholly." She untwisted the hair and put it with care into the fire. "They do much good, and without them people would suffer. But I, Takya, am different. And after me, when I mate, there will be others also different. How different we are not yet sure. The Hooded Ones want no change, by their thinking that means disaster. So they would use me to their own purposes. Only I, Tayka, shall not be so used!" "No, you shall not." The vehemence of his own outburst startled him. Craike wanted nothing so much at that moment than to come to grips with the Black Hoods, who had planned this systematic hunt. "What will you do now?" He IF asked more calmly, wishing she would share her thoughts with him, "This is a strong place. Did you cleanse it?" He nodded impatiently. "So I thought. That was also a task one born to this world might not have performed. But those who pass are not yet aware of the Cleansing. They will not trouble us, but pay tribute." C raike found her complacency irritating. To lie up here and live on the offerings of river travelers did not appeal to him. "This stone piling is older work than Sampur and much better," she continued. "It must have been a fortress for some of those forgotten ones who held lands and then vanished long. before we came from the south. If it is repaired no lord of this district would have so good a roof." "Two of us to rebuild it?" he laughed. "Two of us -- working thus." A block of stone, the size of a brick, which had fallen from the sill of one of the needle-narrow windows, arose slowly in the air, settled into the space from which it had tumbled. Illusion or reality? Craike got to his feet and lurched to the window. His hand fell upon the stone which moved easily in his grasp. He took it out, weighed it, and then gently returned it to its place. Not illusion. "But illusion too -- if need be." There was, for the first time, a warm not of amusement in her tone. "Look on your tower, river lord!" He limped to the door. Outside it was warm, sunny, but it was a site of ruins. Then the picture changed. Brown drifts of grass vanished from the terrace, the fallen stone was all in place. A hardfaced sentry stood wary-eyed on a repaired river arch. Another guardsman led out ponies saddle-padded and ready, other men were about garrison tasks. Craike grinned. The sentry on the arch lost his helm, his jerkin. He now wore the tight tunic of the Security. Police, his spear was a gas rifle. The ponies misted, and in their place a speedster sat on the stone. He heard her laugh. '"Your guard, your traveling machine. But how grim, ugly. This is better!" Guards, machine, all were swept away. Craike caught his breath at the sight of delicate winged creatures dancing in the air, displaying a joy of life he had never known. Fawns, little people of the wild, came to mingle with such shapes of beauty and desire that at last he turned his head away. "Illusion," her voice was hard, mocking. But Craike could not believe that what he had seen had been bom from hardness and mockery. "All illusions. We shall be better now with warriors. As for plans, can you suggest any better than to remain here and take what fortune sends -- for a space?" "Those winged dancers -- where?" "Illusions!" She returned harshly. "But such games tire one. I do not think we shall conjure up any garrison before they are needed, one from which he had come. Come, do not tear open those Whether it was also haunted Craike wounds of yours anew, for healing did not know. But, as he looked is no illusion and drains one even about, he could see the sense of more of the power." Tayka's suggestion. A few illusioa The clawed furrows were healsentries would discourage any oring cleanly, though he would bear dinary intrusion, their scars for life. He hobbled back Takya's housekeeping had changed to the grass bed and dropped upon the rock of offerings. All the rotit, but regretted the erasure of the ting debris was gone and none of sprites she had shown him. the odor of decay now offended the nostrils at a change of wind. O nce he was safely in place. But at best it was a most uncerTakya left with the curt extain source of supply. There could planation she had things to do. But not be too many farms up river, Craike was restless, too much so to nor too many travelers taking the remain long inside the tower. He water way. waited until she had gone and then. As if to refute that, his Esper with the aid of his staff, climbed to sense brought him sudden warning the end of the span above the river, of strangers beyond the upper bend. From here the twin tower on the But, Craike tensed, there were no other bank looked the same as the peasants bound for the market at Sampur. Fear, pain, anger, such emotions heralded their coming. There were three, and one was hurt. But they were not Esper, nor did they serve the Black Hoods. Though they were, or had been, fighting men. A brutal journey over the mountains where they had lost comrades, the finding of this river, the theft of the dugout they now used so expertly -- it was all there for him to read. And beneath that something else, which, when he found it, gave Craike a quick decision in their favor -- a deep hatred of the Black Hoods! Outlaws, very close to despair, keeping on a hopeless trail because it was not in them to surrender. Craike contacted them subtly. They must not think they were heading into an Esper trap! Plant a little hope, a faint suggestion that there was a safe camping place ahead, that was all he could do at present. But so he drew them on. "No!" A ruthless order cut across his line of contact, striking at the delicate thread with which he was playing the strangers in. But Craike stood firm. "Yes, yes, and yes!" He was on guard instantly. Takya, mistress of illusion as she had proved herself to be, might act. But surprisingly she did not. The dugout came into view, carried more by the current than the efforts of its crew. One lay full length in the bottom, while the bow paddler had slumped forward. But the man in the stern was bringing them in. And Craike strengthened his invisible, unheard invitation to urge him on. VI B ut Takya had not yet begun to fight. As the dugout swung in toward the offering ledge one of the Black Hoods' guardsmen appeared there, his drawn sword taking fire from the sun. The fugitive steersman faltered until the current drew his craft on. Craike caught the full force of the stranger's despair, all the keener for the hope of moments before. The Esper irritation against Takya flared into anger. He made the illusion reel back, hands clutching at his breast from which protruded the shaft of an arrow. Craike had seen no bows here, but it was a weapon to suit this world. And this should prove to Takya he meant what he had said. Tlie steersman was hidden as the dugout passed under the arch. There was a scrap of beach, the same to which Craike had swum on his first coming. He urged the man to that, beaming good will. But the paddler was almost done, and neither of his companions could aid him. He drove the crude craft to the bank, and its bow grated on the rough gravel. Then he crawled over the bodies of the other two and fell rather than jumped ashore, turning to pull up the canoe as best he could. Craike started down. But he might have known that Takya was not so easily defeated. Though they maintained an alliance of sorts she accepted no order from him. A brand was teleported from the tower fire, striking spear-se in the dry brush along the slope. Craike's mouth set. He tried no more arguments. They had already tested power against power, and he this was not the time. However the fire was no illusion, and he could not fight it, crippled as he was. Or could he? It was not spreading too fast -- though Takya might spur it by the forces at her command. Now -- there was just the spot! Craike steadied himself against a mound of fallen masonry and swept out his staff, dislodging a boulder and a shower of gravel. He had guessed right. The stone rolled to crush out the brand, and the gravel he continued to push after it smothered the creeping flames. Red tongues dashed spitefully high in a sheet of flame, and Craike was angry. He produced a giant pail in the air, tilted it forward, splashed its contents into the heart of that conflagration. He felt the lash of her rage, standing under it unmoved. So might she bring her own breed to heel, but she would learn he was not of that ilk. "Holla!" That call was no illusion, it begged help. Craike picked a careful path down slope until he saw the dugout and the man who had landed it. The Esper waved an invitation and at his summons the fugitive covered the distance between them. He was a big man of the same IF brawny race as those of Sampur, his braids of reddish hair hanging well below his wide shoulders. There was the raw line of a halfhealed wound down the angle of his jaw, and his sunken eyes were very tired. For a moment he stood down-slope from Craike, his hands on his hips, his head back, measuring the Esper with the shrewdness of a canny officer who had long known how to judge and handle raw levies. "I am Jorik of the Eagles' Tower." The statement was made with the same confidence as the announcement of rank might have come from one of the petty lords. "Though," he shrugged, "the Eagles' Tower stands no more with one stone upon the other. You have a stout lair here -- " he hesitated before he concluded, "friend." "I am Craike," the Esper ananswered as simply, "and I am also one who has run from enemies. This lair is an old one, though still useful." "Might the enemies from whom you run wear black hoods?" countered Jorik. "It seems to me that things I have just seen here have the stink of that about them." "You are right. I am no friend to the Black Hoods." "But you have the power -- " "I have power," Craike tried to make the distinction clear. "You are welcome, Jorik. So all are welcome here who are no friends to Black Hoods." The big warrior shrugged. "We can no longer run. If the time has come to make a last stand, this is as good a place as any. My men are done." He glanced back at the two in the dugout. "They are good men, but we were pressed when they caught us in the upper pass. Once there were twenty hands of us," he held up his fist and spread he fingers wide for counting. "They drew us out of the tower with their sorcerers' tricks, and then put us to the hunt." "Why did they wish to make an end to you?" Jorik laughed shortly. "They dislike those who will not fit into their neat patterns. We are free mountain men, and no Black Hood helped us win the Eagles' Tower; none aided us to hunt. When we took our furs down to the valley they wanted to levy tribute. But what spell of theirs trapped the beasts in our dead-falls, or brought them to our spears? We pay not for what we have not bought. Neither would we have made war on them. Only, when we spoke out and said it so, there were others who were encouraged to do likewise, and the Black Hoods must put an end to us before their rule was broken. So they did." "But they did not get all of you," Craike pointed out. "Can you bring your men up to the tower? I have been hurt and can not walk without support or I would lend you a hand." "We will come." Jorik returned to the dugout. Water was splashed vigorously into the face of the man in the bow, arousing him to crawl ashore. Then the leader of the fugitives swung the third man out of the craft and over his shoulder in a practiced carry. W hen Craike had seen the unconscious man established on his own grass bed, he stirred up the fire and set out food. While Jorik returned to the dugout to bring in their gear. Neither of the other men were of the same size as their leader. The one who lay limp, his breath fluttering between his slack lips, was young hardly out of boyhood, his thin frame showing bones rather than muscled flesh under the rags of clothing. The other was short, dark skinned, akin by race to Kaluf's men, his jaw sprouting a curly beard. He measured Craike with suspicious glances from beneath lowered red lids, turning that study to the walls about him and the unknown reaches at the head of the stair. Craike did not try mind touch. These men were rightly suspicious of Esper arts. But he did attempt to reach Takya, only to meet that nothingness with which she cloaked her actions. Craike was disturbed. Surely now that she was convinced he was determined to give the harborage to the fugitives, she would oppose him. They had nothing to fear from Jorik and his men, but rather would gain by joining forces. Until his wounds were entirely healed he could not go far. And without weapons they would have to rely solely upon Ester powers for defense. Having witnessed the efficiency of the Hooded Ones' attack, Craike doubted a victory in any engagement to which those masters came fully prepared. He had managed to upset their spells merely because they had not known of his existence. But the next time he would have no such advantage. On the other hand the tower could be defended by force of arms. With bows -- Craike savored the idea of archers giving a Hooded force a devastating surprise. The traders had had no such arm, as sophisticated as they were. And he had seen none among the warriors of Sampur. He'd have to ask Jorik if such were known. In the meantime he sat among his guests, watching Jorik feed the semiconscious boy with soft fruit pulp and the other man wolf down dried meat. When the latter had done, he hitched himself closer to the fire and jerked a thumb at his chest. "Zackuth," he identified himself. "From Larud?" Craike named the only city of Kaluf's people he could remember. The dark man's momentary surprise had no element of suspicion. "What do you know of the Children of Noe, stranger?" "I journeyed the plains with one called Kaluf, a Master Trader of Larud." "A fat man who laughs much and wears a falcon plume in his cap?" "Not so," Craike allowed a measure of chill to ice his reply. "The Kaluf who led this caravan was a lean man who knew the edge of a good blade from its hilt. As for cap ornaments -- he had a red IF stone to the fore of his. Also he swore by the Eyes of the Lady Lor." Z ackuth gave a great bray of laughter. ""Vou are no stream fish to be easily hooked, are you, tower dweller? I am not of Larud, but I know Kaluf, and those who travel in his company do not wear one badge one day and another the next. But, by the looks of you, you have fared little better than we lately. Has Kaluf also fallen upon evil luck?" "I traveled safely with his caravan to the gates of Sampur. How it fared with him thereafter I can not tell you." Jorik grinned and settled his patient back on the bed. "I believe you must have parted company in haste. Lord ELa-rak?" Craike answered that with the truth. "There were two who were homed. I followed them to give what aid I could." Jorik scowled, and Zackmth spat into the fire. "We were not horned; we have no power," the latter remarked. "But they have other tricks to play. So you came here?" "I was clawed by a bear," Craike supplied a meager portion of his adventures, "and came here to lie up until I can heal me of that hurt." "This is a snug hole," Jorik was appreciative. "But how got you such eating?" He popped half a fruit into his mouth and licked his juicy fingers. "This is no wilderness feeding." "The tower is thought to be demon haunted. Those taking passage down stream leave tribute." Zackuth slapped his knee. "The Gods of the Waves are good to you, Lord Ka-rak, that you should stumble into such fortune. There is more than one kind of demon for the haunting towers. How say you. Lord Jorik?" "That we have also come into luck at last, since Lord Ka-rak has made us free of this hold. But perhaps you have some other thought in your head?" He spoke to the Esper. Craike shrugged. "What the clouds decree shall fall as rain or snow," he quoted a saying of the caravan men. I t was close to sunset, and he was worried about Takya. He could not believe that she had gone permanently. And yet, if she returned, what would happen? He had been careful not to use Esper powers. Takya would have no such compunctions. He could not analyze his feelings about her. She disturbed him, awoke emotions he refused to face. There was a certain way she had of looking sidewise -- But her calm assumption of superiority pricked beneath his surface armor. And the antagonism fretted against the feeling which had drawn him after her from the gates of Sampur. Once again he sent out a quest-thought and, to his surprise, was answered. "They must go!" "They are outlaws, even as we. One is ill, the others worn with long running. But they stood against the Black Hoods. As such they have a claim on roof, fire and food from us." "They are not as we!" again arrogance. "Send them or I shall drive them. I have the power -- " "Perhaps you have the power, but so do I!" He put all the assurance he could muster into that. "I tell you, no better thing could happen then for us to give these men aid. They are proven fighters -- " "Swords can not stand against the power!" Craike smiled. His plans were beginning to move even as he carried on this voiceless argument. "Not swords, no, Takya. But all fighting is not done with swords nor spears. Nor with the power either. Can a Black Hood think death to his enemy when he himself is dead, killed from a distance, and not by mind power his fellows could trace and be armored against. He had caught her attention. She was acute enough to know that he was not playing with words, that he knew of what he spoke. Quickly he .built upon that spark of interest. "Remember how your illusion guard died upon the offering rock when you would warn off these men?" "By a small spear." She was contemptuous again. "Not so." He shaped a picture of an arrow and then of an archer releasing it from the bow cord, of its speeding true across the river to strike deep into the throat of an unsuspecting Black Hood. "You have the secret of this weapon?" "I do. And five such arms are better than two, is that not the truth?" She yielded a fraction. "I will return. But they will not like that." "If you return, they will welcome you. These are no hunters of witch maidens -- " he began, only to be disconcerted by her obvious amusement. Somehow he had lost his short advantage over her. Yet she did not break contact. "Ka-rak, you are very foolish. No, these will not try to mate with me, not even if I willed it so. As you will see. Does the eagle mate with the hunting cat? But they will be slow to trust me, I think. However, your plan has possibilities, and we shall see." T akya had been right about her reception by the fugitives. They knew her for what she was, and only Craike's acceptance of her kept them in the tower. That and the fact, which Jorik did not try to disguise, that they could not hope to go much farther on their own. But their fears were partly allayed when she took over the nursing of the sick youngster, using on him the same healing power she had produced for Craike's wound. By the new day she was feeding him broth and demanding service from the others as if they had been her liegemen from birth. The sun was well up when Jorik came in whistling from a dip in the river. "This is a stout stronghold, IF Lord Ka-rak. And with the power aiding us to hold it, we are not likely to be shaken out in a hurry. Doubly is that true if the Lady aids us." Takya laughed. She sat in the shaft of light from one of the narrow windows, combing her hair. Now she looked over her shoulder at them with something approaching a pert archness. In that moment she was more akin to the women Craike had known in his own world. "Let us first see how the Lord Ka-rak proposes to defend us." There was mockery in that, enough to sting, as well as a demand that he make good his promise of the night before. But Craike was prepared. He discarded his staff for a hold on Jorik's shoulder, while Zackuth slogged behind. They climbed into the forest. Craike had never fashioned a bow, and he did not doubt that his first attempts might be failures. But, as the three made their slow progress, he explained what they must look for and the kind of weapon he wanted to produce. They returned within the hour with an assortment of wood lengths with which to experiment. After noon Zackuth grew restless and went off, to come back with a deer, visibly proud of his hunting skill. Craike saw bowstrings where the others saw meat and hide for the refashioning of foot wear. For the rest of the day they worked with a will. It was Takya, who had the skill necessary for the feathering of the arrows after Zackuth netted two black river birds. Four days later the tower community had taken on the aspect of a real stronghold. Many of the fallen stones were back in the walls. The two upper rooms of the tower had been explored, and a vast collection of ancient nests had been swept out. Takya chose the topmost one for her own abode and, aided by her convalescing charge, the boy Nickus, had carried armloads of sweet scented grass up for both carpeting and bedding. She did not appear to be inconvenienced by the bats that still entered at dawn to chitter out again at dusk. And she crooned a welcome to the snowy owl that refused to be dislodged from a favorite roost in the very darkest corner of the roof. River travel had ceased. There were no new offerings on the rock. But Jorik and Zackuth hunted. And Craike tended the smoking fires which cured the extra meat against coming need, while he worked on the bows. Shortly they had three finished and practiced along the terrace, using blunt arrows. J orik had a true marksman's eye and took to the new weapon quickly, as did Nickus. Blut Zackuth was more clumsy, and Craike's stiff leg bothered him. Takya was easily the best shot when she would consent to try. But while agreeing it was an excellent weapon, she preferred her own type of warfare and would sit on the wall, braiding and rebraiding her hair with flying fingers, to watch their shooting at marks and applaud or jeer lightly at the results. Howev#r, their respite was short. Craike had the first warning of trouble. He awoke from a dream in which he had been back in the desert panting ahead of the mob. Awoke, only to discover that some malign influence filled the tower. There was a compulsion on him to get out, to flee into the forest. He tested the silences about him tentatively. The oppression which had been in the ancient fort at his first coming had not returned, that was not it. But what? Someone moved restlessly in the dark. "Lord Ka-rak?" Nickus' voice was low and hoarse, as if he struggled to keep it under contral. "What is it?" "There is trouble -- " A bulk which could only belong to Jorik heaved up black against the faint light of the doorway. "The hunt is up," he observed. "They move to shake us out of here like rats out of a nest." "They did this before with you?" asked the Esper. Jorik snorted. "Yes. It is their favorite move to battle. They would give us such a horror of our tower that we will burst forth and scatter. Then they can cut us down as they wish." But Craike could not isolate any thought beam carrying that night terror. It seeped from the walls about them. He sent probes unsuccessfully. There was the pad of feet en the stairs, and then he heard Takya call: "Build up the fire, foolish ones. They may discover that they do not deal with those who know nothing of them." Flame blossomed from the coals to light a circle of sober faces. Zackuth caressed the spear l)dng across his knees, but Nickus and Jorik had eyes only for the witch maid as she knelt by the fire, laying out some bundles of dried leaf and fern. Her thoughts reached Craike. "We must move or these undefended ones will be drawn out from here as nut meats are picked free from the shell. Give me of your power -- in this matter I must be the leader." hough he resented anew her calm assumption of authority, Craike also recognized in it truth. But he shrank from the task she demanded of him. To have no control over his own Esper arts, to allow her to use them to feed hers -- it was a violation of a kind, the very thing he had so feared in his to kill himself to escape it. Yet now she asked it of him as one who had the right! "Forced surrender is truly evil -- but given freely in our defense this is different." Her thoughts swiftly answered his wave of repulsion. The command to flee the tower was growing stronger. Nickus got to his feet as if dragged up. Suddenly Zackuth made for the door, only to have Jorik reach forth a long arm to trip him. "You see," Takya urged, "they IF are already half under the spell. Soon we shall not be able to hold them, either by mind or body. And then they shall be wholly lost -- for ranked against us now is the high power of the Black Hoods." Craike watched the scuffle on the floor and then, still reluctant and inwardly shrinking, he limped around the fire to her side, lying down at her gesture. She threw on the fire two of her bundles of fern, and a thick, sweet smoke curled out to engulf them. Nickus coughed, put his hands uncertainly to his head and slumped, curling up as a tired child in deep slumber. And the struggle between Jorik and his man subsided as the fumes reached them. Takya's hand was cool as it slipped beneath Craike's jerkin, resting over his heart. She was crooning some queer chant, and, though he fought to hold mind contact, there was a veil between them as tangible to his inner senses as the fern smoke was to his outer ones. For one wild second or two he seemed to see the tower room through her eyes instead of his own, and then the room was gone. He sped bodiless across the night world, casting forth as a hound on the trail. All that had been solid in his normal sight was now without meaning. But he was able to see the dark cloud of pressure closing in on the tower and trace that back to its source, racing along the slender thread of its spinners. There was another fire, and about it four of the Black Hoods. Here, too, was scented smoke to free minds from bodies. The essence which was Craike prowled about that fire, counting guardsmen who lay in slumber. With an effort of will which drew heavily upon his strength, he concentrated on the staff which lay before the leader of the company. Setting upon it his own commands. It flipped up into the air, even as its master roused and clutched at it, falling into the fire. There was a flash of blue light, a sound which Craike felt rather than heard. The Hooded Ones were on their feet as their master stared straight across the flames to Craike's disembodied self. His was not an evil face, rather did it hold elements of nobility. But the eyes were pitiless, and Craike knew that now it was not only war to the death between them, but war beyond death itself. The Esper sensed that this was the first time that other had known of his existence, had been able to consider him as a factor in the tangled game. There was a flash of lightning knowledge of each other, and then Craike was again in the dark. He heard once more Takya's crooning, was conscious of her touch resting above the slow, pulsating beat of his heart. "That was well done," her thought welcomed him. "Now they must meet us face to face in battle." "They will come." He accepted the dire promise that Black Hood had made. "They will come, but now we are more equal. And there is not the Rod of Power to fear." G raike tried to sit up and discovered that the weakness born of his wounds was nothing to that which now held him. Takya laughed with some of her old mockery. Do you think you can make the Long Journey and then romp about as a fawn, Ka-rak? Not three days on the field of battle can equal this. Sleep now and gather again the inner power. The end of this venture is still far from us." He could no longer see her face, the glimmer of her hair veiled it, and then that shimmer reached his mind and shook him away from consciousness; and he slept. It might have been early morning when he had made that strange visit to the camp of the Black Hoods. By the measure of the sun across the floor it was late afternoon when he lifted heavy eyelids again. Takya gazed down upon him. Her summons had brought him back, just as her urging had sent him to sleep. He sat up with a smile, but she did not return it. "All is right?" "We have time to make ready before we are put to the test. Your mountain captain is not new to this game. Matters of open warfare he understands well, and he and his men have prepared a rude welcome for those who come. And," her faint smile deepened. "I, too, have done my poor best. Come and see." He limped out on the terrace and for a moment was startled. Illusion, yes, but some of it was real. Jorik laughed at the expression on Craike's face, inviting the Esper with a wave of the hand to inspect the force he captained. For there were bowmen in plenty, standing sentinel on the upper walls, arch, and tower, walking beats on the twin buildings across the river. And it took Craike a few seconds to sort out the ones he knew from those who served Takya's purposes. But the real had been as well posted as their illusionary companions. Nickus, for his superior accuracy with the new weapon, held a vantage point on the wall, and Zackuth was on the river arch where his arrows needed only a short range to be effective. "Look below," Jorik urged, "and see what shall trip them up until we can pin them." A gain Craike blinked. The illusion was one he had seen before, but that had been a hurried erection on the part of a desperate girl, this was better contrived. For all the ways leading to the river towers were cloaked with a tangled mass of thorn trees, the spiked branches interlocking into a wall no sword, no spear could hope to pierce. It might be an illusion, but it would require a weighty counterspell on the part of the Hooded Ones to clear it. "She takes some twigs Nickus finds, and a hair, and winds them together, then buried all under a stone. After she sings over it -- and we have this!" Jorik babbled. "She is worth twenty hands -- no, twice twenty hands, or fighting men, is the Lady Takya! Lord Ka-rak, I say that there is a new day coming IF for this land when such as you two stand up against the Hooded Ones." "Aaaay -- " the warning was soft but clear, half whistle, half call, issuing from Nickus lofty post. "They come!" "So do they!" That was a sharp echo from Zackuth, "and down river as well." "For which we have an answer," Jorik was undisturbed. Those in the tower held their fire. To the confident attackers it was as such warfare had always been for them. If half their company was temporarily halted by the spiny maze, the river party had only to land on the offering rock and fight their way in, their efforts reinforced by the arts of their Masters. But, as their dugout nosed in, bow cords sang. There was a voiceless scream which tore through Craike's head as the hooded man in its bow clutched at the shaft protruding from his throat and fell forward into the river. Two more of the crew followed him, and the rest stopped paddling, dismayed. The current pulled them on under the arch, and Zackuth dropped a rock to good purpose. It carried one of the guardsmen down with it as it hit the craft squarely. The dugout into the water. Zackuth laughed; Jorik roared. "Now they learn what manner of blood letting lies before them!" he cried so that his words must have reached the ears of the besiegers. "Let us see how eagerly they come to such feasting." I t was plain that the Black Hoods held their rulership by more practical virtues than just courage. Having witnessed the smashing disaster of the river attack, they made no further move. Night was coming, and Craike watched them withdraw downstream with no elation. Nor did Jorik retain his cheerfulness. "Now they will try something else. And since we did not fall easily into their jaws, it will be harder to face. I do not like it that we must so face it during the hours of dark." "There will be no dark," Takya countered. One slim finger pointed at a corner of the terrace, and up into the gathering dusk leaped a pencil of clear light. Slowly she turned and brought to life other torches on the roof of the tower over river, on the arch spanning the water, on the parapet -- And in that radiance nothing could move unseen. "So!" Her fingers snapped, and the beacons vanished. "en they are needed, we shall have them." Jorik blinked. "Well enough. Lady. But honest fire is also good, and it provides warmth for a man's heart as well as light for his eyes." She smiled as a mother might smile at a child. "Build your fire. Captain of Swords. But we shall have ample warning when the enemy comes." She called. A silent winged thing floated down and alighted on the arm she held out to invite it. The white owl, its eyes seeming to observe them all with intelligence, snapped its wicked beak as Takya stared back at it. Then with a flap of wings, it went. "From us they may hide their thoughts and movements. But they can not close the sky to those things whose natural home it is. Be sure we shall know, and speedily, when they move against us." They did not leave their posts however. And Zackuth readied for action by laying up pieces of rubble which might serve as well as his first lucky shot. It was a long night, wearing on the tempers of all but Takya. Time and time again Craike tried to probe the dark. But a blank wall was all he met. Whatever moves the Black Hoods considered, they were protected by an able barrier. Jorik took to pacing back and forth on the terrace, five strides one way, six the other, and he brought down his bow with a little click on the time-worn stones each time he turned. "They are as busy hatching trouble as a forest owl is in hatching an egg! But what kind of trouble?" Craike had schooled himself into an outward patience. "For the learning of what we shall have to wait. But why do they delay -- ?" Why did they? The more on edge he and his handful of defenders became, the easier meat they were. And he had no doubt that the Black Hoods were fertile in surprise. Though, judging by what Takya and Jorik reported, they were not accustomed to such determined and resourceful opposition to their wills. Such opposition would only IF firm their desire to wipe out the ' rebels. "They move," Takya's witch fires leaped from every point she had earlier indicated. In that light she sped across the terrace to stand close to Jorik and Craike, close to the parapet wall. "This is the lowest hour of the night when the blood runs slow and resistance is at its depth. So they choose to move -- " Jorik snapped his bow cord, and the thin twang was a harp's note in the silence. But Takya shook her head. "Only the Hooded On come, and they are well armored. Seel" She jumped to the parapet and clapped her hands. TTie witch light shown down on four standing within the thorn barrier, staring up from under the shadow of their hoods. An arrow sang, but it never reached its mark. Still feet away from the leader's breast it fell to earth. B ut Jorik refused to accept defeat. With all the force of his arm he sent a second shaft after the first. And it, too, landed at the feet of the silent four. Craike grasped at Takya, but she eluded him, moving to call down to the Hooded Ones: "What would you, men of power -- a truce?" "Daughter of evil, you are not alone. Let us speak with your lord." She laughed, shaking out her unbound hair, rippling it through her fingers, gloatingly. "Does this show that I have taken a lord, men of power? Takya is herself, without division, still. Let that hope die from your hearts. I ask you again, what is it you wish -- a truce?" "Set forth your lord, with him we will bargain." She smoothed back her hair impatiently. "I have no lord, I and my power are intact. Try me and see, Tousuth. Yes, I know you Tousuth, the Master, and Salsbal, Bulan, Yily -- " she told them off with a pointed forefinger, a child counting, out in some game. Jorik stirred and drew in a sharp breath, and the men below shifted position. Craike caught thoughts -- to use a man's name in the presence of hostile powers, that was magic indeed. "Takya!" It was a reptile's hiss. Again she laughed. "Ah, but the first naming was mine, Tousuth. Did you believe me so poor and power lost that I would obey you tamely? I did not at the horning, why should I now when I stand free of you? Before you had to use Takyi to capture me. But Takyi is gone into the far darkness, and over me now you can lay no such net! Also I have summoned one beside me -- " Her hand closed on Craike's arm, drawing him forward. He faced the impact of those eyes meeting them squarely. Raising his hand he told them off as the girl had done: "Tousuth, Master of women baiters, Salsbal, Bulan, Yily, the wolves who slink behind him. I am here, w ' at would you have of me?" Hut they were silent, and he CO lid feel them searching him out, niiking thrusts against his mind shield, learning in their turn that he was of their kind; he was Esper bom. "What. would you have?" he repeated more loudly. "If you do not wish to treat -- then leave the night undisturbed for honest men's sleep." "Changling!" It was Tousuth who spat that. It was his turn to point a finger and chant a sentence or two, his men watching him with confidence. But Craike, remembering that other scene before Sampur, was trying a wild experiment of his own. He concentrated upon the man Takya had named Yily. Black cloak, black hood making a vulture's shadow against the rock. Vulture -- vulture! He did not know that he had pointed to his chosen victim, nor that he was repeating that word aloud in the same intonation as Tousuth's chant. "Vulture!" Cool hand closed about his other wrist, and from that contact power flowed to join his. It was pointed, launched -- # tT culture!" V A black bird flapped and screamed, arose on beating wings to fly at him, raw red head outstretched, beak agap. There was the twang of a bow cord. A scream of agony and despair and a black cloaked man writhed out his life on the slope by the thorn thicket. "Good!" Takya cried. "That was well done, Ka-rak, very well done! But you can not use that weapon a second time." IF C raike was filled with a wild elation, and he did not listen to her. His finger already indicated Bulan and he was chanting: "Dog -- " But to no purpose. The Black Hood did not drop to all fours, he remained human; and Craike's voice faded. Takya spoke in swift whisper: "They are warned, you can never march against them twice by the same path. Only because they were unprepared did you succeed. Ho, Tousuth," she called, "do you now believe that we are well armed? Speak with a true tongue and say what you want of us." "Yes," Jorik boomed, "you can not take us. Master of power. Go your way, and we shall go ours -- " "There can not be two powers in any land, as you should know, Jorik of the Eagles' towers, who tried once before to prove that and suffered thereby. There must be a victor here -- and to the vanquished -- naught!" Craike could see the logic in that. But the Master was continuing: As to what we want here -- it is a decision. Match your power against ours, changling. And since you have not taken the witch, use her also if you wish. In the end it will come to the same thing, for both of you must be rendered helpless." "Here and now?" asked Craike. "Dawn comes, it will soon be another day. By sun or shadow, we care not in such a battle." The elation of his quick success in that first try was gone. Craike fingered the bow he had not yet used. He shrank inwardly from the contest the other proposed, he was too uncertain of his powers. One victory had come from too little knowledge. Takya's hand curled about his stiff fingers once again. The impish mockery was back in her voice, ruffling his temper, irritating him into defiance. "Show them what you can do, Lord Ka-rak, you who can master illusions." He glanced down at her, and the sight of that cropped lock of hair at her temple gave him an odd confidence. Neither was Takya as allpowerful as she would have him believe. "I accept your challenge," he called. "Let it be here and now." "WE accept your challenge!" Takya's flash of annoyance, her quick correction, pleased him. Before the echo of her words died away she hurled her first attack. Witch fire leaped down slope to ring in the three men, playing briefly along the body of the dead Yily. It flickered up and down about their feet and legs so they stood washed in palid flame. While about their heads darted winged shapes which might have been owls or other night hunters. There was a malignant hissing, and the slope sprouted reptiles, moving in a wave. Illusions? All -- or some. But designed, Craike understood, to divert the enemy's minds. He added a few of his own -- a wolfish shape crouching in the shadow -- leaping -- to vanish as its paws cut the witch fire. Swift as had been Takya's attack, so did those below parry. An oppressive weight, so tangible that Craike looked up to see if some mountain threatened them from overhead, began to close down upon the parapet. He heard a cry of to be seen now, a giant press closing upon them. Balls of witch fire flashed out of the light pillars, darted at those on the parapet. One flew straight at Craike's face, its burning breath singeing his skin. "Fool!" Takya's thought was a whip lash, "Illusions are only real for the believer." H e steadied, and the witch ball vanished. But he was badly shaken. This was outside any Esper training he had had, it was the very thing he had been conditioned against. He felt slow, clumsy, and he was ashamed that upon Takya must the burden of their defense now rest. Upon her -- Craike's eyes narrow. He loosened her hold on him did not try to contact her. There was too much chance of selfbetrayal in that. His plan was utterly wild, but it had been well demonstrated that the Black Hoods could only be caught by the unexpected. Another witch ball hurtled at him, and he leaped to the terrace, landing with a force which sent a lance of pain up his healing leg. But on the parapet a Craike still stood, shoulder to shoulder with Takya. To maintain that illusion was a task which made him sweat as he crept silently away from the tower. He had made a security guard to astonish Takya, the wolf, all the other illusions. But they had been only wisps, things alive for the moment with no need for elaboration. To hold this semblance of himself was in some ways easier, some ways harder. It was easier to make, for the image was produced of selfknowledge, and it was harder, for it was meant to deceive masters of illusion. Craike reached the steps to the rock of the offerings. The glow of the witch lights here was pale, and the ledge below dark. He crept down, one arrow held firmly in his hand. Here the sense of oppression was a hundredfold worse, and he moved as one wading through a flood which entrapped limbs and brain. Blind, he went to all fours, feeling his way to the river. He set the arrow between his teeth in a bite which indented its shaft. A knife would have been far better, but he had no time to beg Jorik's. He slipped over, shivering as the chill water took him. Then he swam under the arch. It was comparatively easy to reach the shingle where the dugout of the Black Hoods had turned over. As he made his way to the shore he brushed against watersoaked cloth and realized he shared this scrap ofgravel with the dead. Then, arrow still between his teeth, Craike climbed up behind the Black Hoods' position. IF IX T he thorn hedge cloaked the rise above him. But he concentrated on the breaking of that illusion, wading on through a mass of thorns, intact to his eyes, thin air at his passing. Then he was behind the Black Hoods. Takya stood, a black and white figure on the wall above, beside the illusion Craike. Nowl The illusion Craike swelled a little more than life size, while his creator gathered his feet under him, preparatory to attack. Tlie Craike on the wall altered -- anything to hold the attention of Tousuth for a crucial second or two. Monster grew from man, wings, horns, curved tusks, all embellishments Craike's imagination could add. He heard sihouts from the tower. But with the arrow as a dagger in his hand, he sprang, allowing himself in that moment to see only, to think only of a point on Tousuth's back. The head drove in and in, and Tousuth went down on his knees, clutching at his chest, coughing. While Craike, with a savagery he had not known he possessed, leaned on the shaft to drive it deeper. Fingers hooked about Craike's throat, cutting off air, dragging him back. He was pulled from Tousuth, loosing his hold on the arrow shaft to tear at the hands denying him breath. There was a r fog which even the witch lights could not pierce and the roaring in his head was far louder than the shouts from the tower. Then he was flat on the ground, still moving feebly. But the hands were gone from his throat, and he gasged in air. Around him circled balls of fire, dripping, twirling, he closed his eyes against their glare. "Lord -- Lord!" The hail reached him only faintly. Hands pulled at him, and he tried to resist. But when he opened his eyes it was to see Jorik's brown face. Jorik was at the tower -- how had Craike returned there? Surely it all illusion? "He is not dead." Whether or not that was said to him, Craike did not know. But his fingers were at his throat and he winced from his own touch. Then an arm came under his shoulders, lifting him, and he had a dizzy moment until earth and gray sky settled into their proper places. Takya was there, with Nickus and Zackuth hovering in the background of black jerkined guardsmen who stared back at her sullenly over the bodies of the dead. For they were all dead -- the Hooded Ones. There was Tousuth, his head in the sand. And his fellows crumpled beside him. The witch girl chanted, and in her hands was a cat's cradle of black strands. The men who followed Tousuth cringed, and their fear was a cloud Craike could see. He grabbed at Jorik, won to his feet, and tried to hail Takya. But not even a croak came from his tortured throat. So he flung himself at her, one hand out like a sword blade to slash. It fell across that wicked net of hair, breaking it, and went to close upon Takya's wrist in a crushing grip. "Enough!" He could get out that command mind to mind. She drew in upon herself as a eat crouches for a spring, and spat, her eyes green with feral lusting fire. But he had an answer to that, read it in her own spark of fear at his touch. His hands twined in her hair. 'They are men," he pulled those black strands to emphasize his words," they only obeyed orders. We have a quarrel with their masters, but not with them!" "They himted, and now they shall be hunted!" "I have been hunted, as have you, witch woman. And while I live there shall be no more such hunts -- whether I am hound or quarry." "While you live -- " her menace was ready. S uddenly Craike forced out a hoarse croak meant for laughter. "You, yourself, Takya, have put the arrow to this bow cord!" He kept one hand tangled in her hair. But with the other he snatched from her belt the knife she had borrowed from Nickus and not returned. She screamed, beat against him with her fists, tried to bite. He mastered her roughly, not loosing his grip on that black silk. And then in sweeps of that well whetted blade he did what the Black Hoods had failed in doing, he sawed through those lengths. "I am leaving you no weapons, Takya. You shall not rule here as you have thought to do -- " The exultation he had known when he had won his first victory against the Black Hoods was returning a hundredfold. "For a while I shall pull those pretty claws of yours!" He wondered briefly how long it would take her hair to regrow. At least they would have a breathing spell before her powers returned. Then, his arm still prisoning her shoulders, the mass of her hair streaming free from his left hand, he turned to face the guardsmen. 'Tell them to go," he thought, "taking their dead with them." "You will go, taking these with you," she repeated aloud, stony calm. One of the men dropped to his knees by Tousuth's body, then abased himself before Craike. "We are your hounds. Master." Craike found his voice at last. "You are no man's hounds -- for you are a man. Get you gone to Sampur and tell them that the power is no longer to make hind nor hound. If there are those who wish to share the fate of Tousuth, perhaps when they look upon him as dead they will think more of it." "Lord, do you come also to Sampur to rule?" the other asked timidly. Craike laughed. "Not until I have established my lordship elsewhere. Get you back to Sampur and trouble us no more." He turned his back on the guardsmen and, drawing the silent Takya, still within the circle of his arm, with him, started back to the towIF er. The bowmen remained behind, and Craike and the girl were alone as they reached the upper level. He paused then and looked down into her set, expressionless face. "What shall I do with you?" You have shamed me and taken my power from me. What does a warrior do with a female slave?" She formed a stark mind picture, hurling it at him as she had hurled the stone on the mesa. With his left hand he whipped her hair across her face, smarting under that taunt. "I have taken no slave, nor any woman in that fashion, nor shall I. Go your way, Takya, and fight me again if you wish when your hair has grown." S he studied him, and her astonishment was plain. Then she laughed and clutched at the hair, tearing it free from his grasp, bundling it into the front of her single garment. "So be it, Ka-rak. It is war between us. But I am not departing hence yet a while." She broke away, and he could hear the scuff of her feet on the steps as she climbed to her own chamber in the tower. "They are on their way, Lord, and they will keep to it." Jorik came up. He stretched. "It was a battle not altogether to my liking. For the honest giving of blows from one's hand is better than all this magic, potent as it is." Craike sat down beside the fire. He could not "have agreed more heartily with any suggestion. Now that it was over he felt drained of energy. "I do not believe they will return," he wheezed hoarsely, very conscious of his bruised throat. Nickus chuckled, and #ckuth barked his own laughter. "Seeing how you handled the Lady, Lord, they want nothing more than to be out of your grasp and that as speedily as possible. Nor, when those of Sampur see what they bring with them, do I think we shall be sought out by others bearing drawn swords. Now," Jorik slapped his fat middle, "I could do with meat in my belly. And you. Lord, have taken such handling as needs good food to counter." There was no mention of Takya, nor did any go to summon her when the meat was roasted. And Craike was content to have it so. He was too tired for any more heroics. Nickus hummed a soft tune as he rubbed down his unstrung bow before wrapping it away from the river damp. And Craike was aware that the younger man glanced at him slyly when he thought the Esper's attention elsewhere. Jorik, too, appeared highly amused at some private thoughts, and he had fallen to beating time with one finger to Nickus' tune. Craike shifted uncomfortably. He was an actor who had forgotten his lines, a novice required to make a ritual move he did not understand. What they wanted of him he could not guess, for he was too tired to mind toudi. He only wanted sleep, and that he sought as soon as he painfully swallowed his last bite. But he heard through semistupor a surprised exclamation from Nickus. "He goes not to seek her -- to take her!" J orik's answer held something of approval in it. "To master such as the Lady Takya he will need full strength of power and limb. His is the wisest way, not to gulp the fruits of battle before the dust of the last charge is laid. She is his by shearing, but she is no meek ewe to come readily under any man's hand." Takya did not appear the next day, nor the next. And Craike made no move to climb to her. His companions elaborately did not notice her absence as they worked together, setting in place fallen stones, bringing the tower into a better smoke the meat. For as Jorki pointed out: "Soon comes the season of cold. We must build us a snug place and have food under our hands before then." He broke off and gazed thoughtfully down stream. "This is also the fair time when countrymen bring their wares to market. There are traders in Sampur. We could offer our hides, even though they be newly fleshed, for salt and grain. And a bow -- this Kaluf of whom you have spoken, would he not give a good price for a bow?" Craike raised an eyebrow. "Sampur? But they have little cause to welcome us in Sampur." "You and the Lady Takya, Lord, they might take arms against in fear. But if Zackuth and I went in the guise of wandering hunters -- and Zackuth is of the Children of Noe, he could trade privately with his kin. We must have supplies. Lord, before the coming of the cold, and this is too fine a fortress to abandon." So it was decided that Jorik and Zackuth were to try their luck with the traders. Nickus went to hunt, wrecking havoc among the flocks of migrating fowl, and Craike held the tower alone. A s he turned from seeing them away, he sighted the owl wheel out from the window slit of the upper chamber, its mournful cry sounding loud. On sudden impulse he went inside to climb the stair. There had been enough of her sulking. He sent that thought before him as an order. She did not reply. Craike's heart beat faster. Was -- had she gone? The rough outer wall, was it possible to climb down that? He flung himself up the last few steps and burst into the room. She was standing there, her shorn head higji as if she and not he had been the victor. When he saw her Craike 'Stopped. Then he moved again, faster than he had climbed those stairs. For in that moment the customs of this world were clear, he knew what he must do, what he wanted to do. If this revelation was some spell of Takya's he did not care. Later he was aroused by the caress of silk on his body, felt her cool fingers as he had felt them drawing the poison from his wounds. It was a black belt, and she IF was making fast about him, murmuring words softly as she interwove strand with strand about his waist until there was no beginning nor end to be detected. "My chain on you, man of power." Her eyes slanted down at him. He buried both his hands in the ragged crop of hair from which those threads had been severed and so held her quiet for his kiss. "My seal upon you, witch." "What Tousuth would have done, you have accomplished for 'him," she observed pensively when he had given her a measure of freedom once again. "Only through you may I now use my power." "Which is perhaps well for this land and those who dwell in it," he laughed. "We are now tied to a common destiny, my lady of river towers." She sat up running her hands through her hair with some of her old caress. "It will grow again," he consoled. "To no purpose, except to pleasure my vanity. Yes, we are tied together. But you do not regret it, Ka-r-ak -- " "Neither do you, witch." There was no longer any barrier between their minds, as there was none between their bodies. "What destiny will you now spin for the two of us?" "A great one. Tousuth knew my power-to-come. I would now realize it." Her chin went up. "And you with me, Ka-rak. By this," her hand rested lightly on the belt. "Doubtless you will set us up as rulers over Sampur?" he said lazily, lazily. "Sampur!" she sniffed. 'This world is wide -- " Her arms went out as if to encircle all which lay beyond the tower walls. Ctraike drew her back to him jealously. "For that there is more than time enough. This is an hour for something else, even in a warlock's world." Two Complete Short Novels by Keith Laumer by Hayden Howard Also stories and features by top science-fiction writers: -- and many others! April Issue of Galaxy on sale now -- get your copy today! IF  Short Story The berserker owned them and would destroy them when if chose -- unless they could somehow destroy if firsti T lie ship had been a human transport once, and it still transported humans, hut now they rode like well cared for cattle on the road to market. Control of their passage and destiny had been vested in the electronic brain and auxiliary devices built into the New England after its capture in space by a berserker machine. GUberto Klee, latest captive to be thrust aboard, was more frightened than he had ever been before in his young life, and trying not to ew it. Why the berserker had kept him alive at all he did not know. He was afraid to think about it. Like evetyone else he had heard the horror stories -- of human brains, stMl halfalive, built into berserker computers as auxiliary circuits; of human bodies used in the berserkers' experiments intended to produce convincing artificial men; of humans kept os test-targets for new berserker death-rays, toxins, ways to drive men mad. After the raid Gil and the handful of others who had been taken with him -- for aU they knew, the only survivors of their planet -- had been separated and kept in solitary compartments aboard the great machine in space. And now the same berserker devices that had captured him, or other devices like them, had taken him from his cell and led him to an interior dock aboard the planetoid-sized berserker; and before they put him aboard this ship that had been a human transport once, he had time to see the name New England on her hull. Once aboard, he was put into a chamber about twenty paces wide and perhaps fifty long, twelve or fifteen feet high. Evidently all interior decks and paneling, everything non-essential, had been ripped out. There was left the inner hull, some plumbing, some light, artificial gravity and air at a good level. There were eight other people in the chamber, standing together and talking among themselves; they fell silent as the machines opened the door and thrust Gil in with them. #T Tow do," said one man to Jn Gil, as the door closed behind the machines again. The speaker was a thin guy who wore some kind of spaceman's uniform that now bagged loosely on his frame. As he spoke he took a cautious step forward and nodded. Everyone was watching Gil alertly -- just in case he should turn out to be violently crazy, Gil supposed. Well, it wasn't the first time in his life he'd been thrown in with a group of prisoners who looked at him like that. "My name is Rom," the thin guy was saying. "Ensign Rom, United Planets Space Force." "Gilberto Klee." Everyone relaxed just slightly, seeing that he was fairly normal. "This is Mr. Hudak," said Ensign Rom, indicating another young, once-authoritative man. Then he went on to name the others, but Gil couldn't remember all their names at once. Three of them were women, one of them young enough to make Gil look at her with some interest. Then he saw how she kept half-crouching behind the other people, staring smiling at nothing, fingers playing omceasingly with her long and imkempt hair. Mr. Hudak had started to ask Gil questions, bis voice gradually taking on the tone used by peoplein-charge conducting an examination. In school. Youth Bureau, police station. Resettlement, always there was that certain tone of voice used by processors when speaking to the processed -- though Gil had never put the thought in just those words. Hudak was asking him: "Were you on another ship, or what?" On a ship. You were not a spaceman, of course, said the tone of authority now. You were just a boy being processed somewhere, we see that by looking at you. Not that the tone of authority was intentionally nasty. It usually wasn't. "I was on a planet," said Gil. "Bella Coola." "My God, they hit that too?" "They sure hit the part where Iwas, anyway." Gil hadn't seen anything to make him hopeful about the rest of the planet. At the Resettlement Station where he was they had had just a few minutes' warning from the military, and then the radios had gone silent. There wasn't much the people at the Station could do with the little warning they had been given. Already they could see the berserker heat-rays and dust-maohines playing over the woods, which was the only concealment they might have to run to. Still, some of the kids had been trying to run when the silvery, poisonous-looking dart that was the berserker's launch had appeared descending overhead. The Old Man had come tearing out of the compound into the fields on his scooter -- maybe to tell his young people to run, maybe to tell them to stand still. It didn't seem to make much difference. The ones who ran were rayed down by the enemy, and the ones who didn't were rounded up. What Gil recalled most clearly about the other kids dying was the look of agony on the Old Man's face -- that one face of authority that had never seemed to be looking at Gil from the other side of a glass wall. When all the survivors of the Station had been herded together in a bunch, standing in a little crowd under the bright sky in the middle of a vine-grown field, the machines singled out the Old Man. Some of the machines thk had landed were in the shape of metal men, some looked more like giant steel ants. "Thus to all life, save that which serves the cause of Death," said a twanging metal voice. And a steel hand picked a squash from a vine and held the fruit up and squeezed through it so it fell away in broken pulpy halves. And then the same hand, with squash-pulp still clinging to the bright fingers, reached to take the Old Man by the wrist. The twanging voice said: "You are to some degree in control of these other life-units. You will now with us." The Old Man only shook his head, no. Muttered something. The bright hand squeezed, slowlyThe Old Man squeezed, but did not fall. Neither did he give any order for co-operation. Gil was sitonding rigid, and silent, but screaming in his own mind for the Old Man to give in, to fall down and pass out, anything to make it stop... But the Old Man would not fall, or pass out, or give the order that was wanted. Not even when the berserker's big hand came up to clamp around his skull, and the pressure was once more applied, slowly as before. #'lThat was on Bella Coola?" V V Ensign Rom was asking him. "I mean, military?" "Not much, I guess," said Gil. "I on't know much about military stuff. I was just sort of studying to be a farmer." "Oh." Rom and Hudak, the two sharp, capable-looking ones among the prisoners, exchanged glances. Maybe they knew the farms on Bella Coola had been just a sort of reform-school setup for tough Idds from Barth and other crowded places. Gil told himself he didn't give a damn what anyone thought. And then he realized that he had always been telling himself that and that maybe now, for the first time in his life, it was the truth. In a little while the prisoners were fed. A machine brought in a big cake of mottled pink and green stuff, the same tasteless substance Gil had lived on since his capture eight or ten days ago. While he ate he sat off to one side by himself, looking at nothing and listening to the two sharp guys talking to each other in low voices. IF Rom was saying: "Look we're in what was the crew quarters, right?" "If you say so." "Right. Now they brought me in through the forward compartment, the control room, and I had a chance to take a quick look around there. And I've paced off the length of this chamber we're in. I tell you I served aboard one of these ships for a year, I know 'em inside out." "So?" "Just this." There was a faint scrape and shudder through the hull. When Rom spoke again his low voice was charged with excitement. "Feel that? We're going spacebome again, the big machine's sending this ship somewhere, for some reason. That means we would have a chance, if only... Listen, the circuitry that makes up the brain that's controlling this ship and keeping us prisoner -- it has to be spread out along that plastic bulkhead at the forward end of this compartment we're in. On the control room side there's another plastic slab been installed, and the circuitry must be sandwiched in between the two." "How can you know?" Hudak sounded skeptical. Rom's voice dropped even lower, giving arguments most of which Gil could not hear. "... as well protected there against outside attack as anywhere in the ship... paced off the distance... overhead here, look at the modifications in the power conduits going forward..." Hudak: "You're right, I guess. Or at least it seems probable. That plastic barrier is all that keeps us from getting at it, then. I wonder how thick." Gil could see from the corner of his eye that the two sharp guys were trying not to look at what they were talking about; but he was free to stare. The forward end of the big chamber they were in was a blank greenish plastic wall, pierced along the top for some pipes, and at one side by the door through which Gil had been brought in. "Thick enough, of course. We don't have so much os a screwdriver, and we'd probably need a cutting torch or a hydraulic jack -- " Hudak nudged Rom and they fell silent. The door forward had opened, and one of the man-sized machines came in. "Ghberto Klee," it twanged. "Come." R om had been right; they were spacebome again, away from the big berserker. In the forward compartment Gil had a moment to look out before the man-sized machine turned him away from a view of stars and faced him toward a squat console, a thing of eyelike lights and a radiolike speaker, which seemed to crouch before the front of the plastic wall. "Gilberto Klee," said the console's speaker. "It is my purpose to keep a number of human life-units alive and in goodhealth." For a while, Gil thought. The speaker said: "The standard nutrient on which prisoners are fed is evidently lacking in one or more necessary trace ingredients. In several places where prisoners are ibeing held, symptoms of nutritional deficiency have developed, including general debility, loss of sight, loss of teeth." Pause. "Are you aware of my meaning?" "Yeah. I just don't talk much." "You Gilberto Klee, are experienced at growing lifeforms to be consumed by human life-units as food. You will begin here in this ship to grow food for yourself and other human lifenits." There was a pause that stretched on. Gil could see the Old Man very plainly and hear him scream. "Squash would be good," Gil said at last. "I know how to raise it, and there's lots of vitamins and stuff in the kind of squash we had at the Station. But I'd need seeds, and soil..." "A quantity of soil has 'been provided," said the console. And the man-sized machine picked up and held open a plastic case that was divided into many compartments. "And seeds," the console added. "Which are the ones for squash?" When Gil was returned to the prison chaimiber other machines were already busy there with the modifications he had said would be needed. They were adding more overhead lights and covering most of the deck space with wide, deep trays. These trays were set on the transverse girders of the inner hull, revealed by the removal of decking. Under the trays drainage pipes were being connected, while sprinklers went high overhead. Into the trays the machines were dumping soil they carted in from somewhere. Gil gave his fellow prisoners an explanation of what was going on. "So that's why it took you and some of the other farmers alive," said Hudak. "There must be a lot of different places where human prisoners are being held and maybe bred for experiments. Lots of healthy animals needed." "So," said Rom, looking sideways at Gil. "You're going to do what it wants?" "A guy has to keep himself alive," Gil said, "before he can do anything else." Rom began in a heated whisper: "Is it better that a berserker's prisoners should ibe kept -- " But he broke off when one of the mansized machines paused nearby, as if it was watching and listening. T hey came to call that machine the Overseer, because from then on it never left the humans, though the other machines departed when the construction job was done. Through the Overseer, the berserker-Jbrain controlling the ship informed Gil that the other prisoners were mainly a labor pool, should he need human help in food-growing. Gil thought it over briefly. "I don't need no help -- yet. Just leave the people stay here for now, but I'll do the planting." Spacing the hills and dropping the seeds was easy enough, though the machines had left no aisles between the trays of soil except a small passage leading to the door. The trays farthest forward almost touched the plastic bulkhead, and others were laid edge to edge back IF to within a few paces of the rear. The machines gave Gil a platform the size of a short surfboard, on which he could sit or lie while hovering at a steady two feet above the soil. Hudak said the thing must work by a kind of hole in the artificial gravity field. On the platform was a simple control lever by means of which Gil could cause it to move left or right, forward or back. Almost as soon as the planting was done, he had to start tending his fast-growing vines. The vines had to be twisted to make them grow along the soil in the proper direction, and then there were extra blossoms to be pinched off. A' couple of the other prisoners offered to help, despite Rom's scowling at them, but Gil refused the offer. You have to have a knack, he said, and some training. And he did it all himself. The two sharp guys had little to say to Gil about anything any more. But they were plainly interested in his surfboard, and one day while the Overseer's back was turned Rom took Gil hurriedly aside. Rom whispered quickly and feverishly, like a man taking what he knows is a crazy chance, fed up enough to take it anyway. "The Overseer doesn't pay much attention to you any more when you're working, Gil. You could take that platform of yours -- ," Rom's right hand, extended horizontally, rammed the tips of its fingers into the palm of his vertical left hand -- "into the wall. If you could only make a little crack in the plastic, a hole big enough to stick a hand through, we'd have some kind of chance. I'd do it but the Overseer won't let anyone but you near the plaform." Gil's lip curled. " ain't gonna try nothin' like that." The thin sickly man was not used to snotty kids talking back to him, and he flared feebly into anger. "You think the berserker's going to take good care of you?" "The machine built the platform, didn't it?" Gil demanded. Wouldn't give us nothing we could bust through there with. Not if there's anything so important as you think back there." For a moment Gil thought Rom was going to swing at him, but other people held Rom back. And suddenly the Overseer was no longer standing on the other side of the chamber with its back turned, but right in front of Rom, staring at him with its lenses. A few long, long seconds passed before it was plain that the machine was not going to do anything this time. But maybe its hearing was better than the sharp guys had thought. # # 'They ain't ripe yet, but we canL eat some of 'em anyway," said Gil a couple of weeks later, as he slid off his platform to join the other people in the few square yards of living space left along the chamber's rear bulkhead. Cradled in Gil's arm were half a dozen dull yellowish ovoids. He turned casually to the Overseer and asked: "Got a knife?" There was a pause. Then the Overseer extended a hand, from vfhich a wicked blade extended itself like an extra finger. "I will divide the fruit," it said, and proceeded to do so with great jfrecision. The little group of prisoners had come crowding around, some interest stirring in their dull eyes. They ate greedily the little morsels that the Overseer doled out; anything ta'. OvI good after weeks or months of nothing but the changeless pinkand-green cake. Rom, after a scarcely perceptible hesitation, joined the others in eating some raw squash. He showed no enjoyment as the others did. It was just that a man had to be healthy, he seemed to be thinking, before he could persuade others to get themselves killed, or let themselves sicken and die. Under the optimum conditions provided by the berserker at Gil's direction, only weeks rather than months were needed for the trays to become filled with broad roundish leaves, spreading above a profusion of thickening, ground-hugging vines. Half of the fast-growing fruit was hidden under leaves, while others burgeoned in the full light, and a few hung over the edges of the trays, resting their new weight on the girders under the trays or sagging all the way to the deck. Gil maintained that the time for a proper harvest was still an indefinite number of days away. But each day he now came back to the living area with a single squash to be divided by the Overseer's knife; and each day the fruit he brought was larger. He was out in the middle of his "fields," lying prone on his platform and staring moodily at a swelling squash, when the sound of a sudden commotion back in the living area made him raise himself and turn his head. The center of the commotion was the Overseer. The machine was hopping into the air again and again, as if the brain that controlled it had gone berserker indeed. The prisoners cried out, scrambling to get away from the Overseer. Then the machine stopped its mad jumping, and stood turning in a slow circle, shivering, the knife-finger on its hand flicking in and out. "Attention, we are entering battle," the Overseer proclaimed suddenly, dead monotone turned up to deafening volume. "Under attack. All prisoners are to be -- they will all -- " It said more, but at a speed no human ear could follow, gibbering up the frequency scale to end in something like a human scream. The mad girl who never spoke let out a blending yell of terror. The Overseer tottered and swayed, brandishing its knife. It babbled and twitched -- like an old man with steel fingers vising his head. Then it leaned forward, leaned further, and fell on its face, disappearing from Gil's sight below the level of trays and vines, striking the deck with a loud clang. That clang was echoed, forward, by a cannon-crack of sound. Gil had been keeping himself from looking in that direction, but now he turned. The plastic wall had been split across the center third of its extent by a horizontal fissure a few feet above the trays. IF Gil lay still on his platfonn, watching cautiously. Ensign Rom came charging across the trays and past him, trampling the crop unheedingly, to hurl himself at the wall. Even cracked, it resisted his onslaught easily, but he kept pounding at it with his fists, trying to force his fingers into the tiny crevice. Gil looked back the other way. The Overseer was still down. Hudak was trying the forward door and finding it locked. Then first he, and then the other people, were scrambling over trays to join Rom and help him. Gil tested his platform's control and found that it no longer worked, though the platform was still aloft. He got up from it, setting foot in soil for the first time in a couple of months; it was a good feeling. Then he lifted the thin metal platform sideways out of its null and carried it over to where everyone else was already struggling with the wall. "Here," Gil said, "try sticking the corner of this in the crack and pryin'." I t took them several hours of steady effort to make a hole in the wall big enough for Rom to squeeze through. In a minute he was back, crying and shouting, announcing freedom and victory. They were in control of the ship! en he came back the second time, he was in control of himself as well, and puzzled. "What cracked the wall, though? There's no fighting, no other ships around -- " He fell silent as he joined Hudak in staring down the narrow space between the farthest forward tray and the slightly bulged-in section of wall where the strain had come to force the first crack above. Gil had already looked down there into the niches between wall and transverse girder. Those niches were opened up now, displaying their contents -- the dull yellowish fruit Gil had guided into place with a pinch and a twist of vine. The fruit had been very small then, but now they were huge, and cracked gently open with the sudden release of their own internal pressure. Funny pulpy things that a man could break with a kick, or a steel hand squeeze through like nothing... "But growth is stobborn, boys," the Old Man always said, squinting to read a dial, then piling more weights onto the machine with the growing squash inside it, a machine he'd set up to catch kids' eyes and minds. "Can't take a sudden shock. Slow. But now, look. Five thousand pounds pressure per square inch. All growing, aU together. Ever see a tree root swell under a concrete walk?" It was on Rom's and Hudak's faces now that they understood. Gil nodded at them once and ' smiled just faintly to make sure they knew it had been no accident. Then the smile faded from his face as he looked up at the edges of broken plastic, the shattered tracery wiched printed circuits. "I hope it was slow," Gil said. "I hope it felt the whole thing." IF  Novelette The baron's job was to prevent a revolt -- by passing on the message that would trigger it! I T he Chief Porter of Ness House tiptoed into the study of the man who to him represented omnipotence. Omnipotence was in a good mood. Sir Hubert Wulf-Leigh, K.K. S., Baron Minor, was usually in a good mood when he was totaling up the monthly reports on the wine duty which fell to the Lord Deputy Warden of the Ness by delegation of royal prerogative. Looking up smiling from his accounts, he asked casually, "Who is it this time?" "The Senior Captain of the merchanters, m'Lord. 'E says 'ee sent for him." "Hugh Cruffin, eh? That's right, I did send for him. Show him in." There was a few moments' pause and then the dean of merchant captains entered. He was a tall, though now somewhat stooped, figure of a man, whose cap clutched in gnarled arthritic fingers revealed an unruly and rather sparse head of white hair as he followed the porter in. Seeing the captain obviously ill at ease, the baron began with amenities of the more commonplace variety. "Some rum, captain? No? Then you'll try some of this wine, best Madura, out of a Spiniel prize, ni keep you company on this cigar. The damn doctors have warned me to avoid the delights of the grape lest my old liver trouble kick up anew, and my darling Arabella keeps careful tabs on the wine flasks." This confession of human frailty did much to put Captain Hugh at his ease. "You sent for me, 'Lord. I hope we can do the business quickly. I sail on Milady o' Plymness at four bells of the afternoon watch. That's two o'clock, sir." For a moment Sir Hubert frowned slightly. "I know that. Master Cruffin. You know I was Confidential Clerk to the Board of Lord High Admirals and was sort of a seaman by proxy. Now to the point: I remember that when the Freunchies and their sky boats threatened the Ness, you told me about false lighters and wreckers, didn't you?" "Aye, I told 'yee all right. And 'ee used it to give 'en a royal rousting." The old man chuckled appreciatively at the recalled memory. "Now tell me this after a moment of careful thought: Are there any more wreckers on this coast?" "No, my Lord." The aged captain did not hesitate more than a few seconds. "There be none. The Navy and the Coast Patrol cleaned 'em out fifteen or twenty years ago, and I'll fight any man that says different." "I'm afraid the men who made the charges aren't much on fighting," was the placatory response of the official ruler of the Ness. "You've heard of the Compassionate Confraternity of St. Angus of the Open Hands." A puzzled look came over Cruffin's face. "The compassionate Confraternity, who be'en? Oh, 'ee means the black 'uns." A look of feral hatred now came over the merchantman's face. "He'd know it would be'en with sneaking ways and 'eir oaths to the Bishop of New Byzantium; besides which 'en are Pantlerists." The Warden mildly chided him for this display of bigotry. "Captain Hugh, you shouldn't talk that way. You sound as if the Act of Forbearance was never passed." The old man waved a triumphant finger in Sir Hubert's face. "Ajid 'oo sat in Lindesnes Palace when mun was passed? Rupert Pantler, the last Pantler, that's who mun was!" T Tell, a lot of water has flown VV under Lindesnes Bridge since then. At any rate, you know that the Augus brothers have the responsibility for the burial of all Cullenlanders who die on our shores or in our country and, as many of them do, die destitute. You also know about the wreck on Exmouth Head the other day?" The dean of captains nodded gravely. "Aye, I do. But mun was not wreckers. Mun was foolishments. 'En showed too much canvas, 'en did. Fore and main sails, fore and main topsails and main t'gallants, 'en was making. And to come about Exmouth Head with twenty knots o' wind blowing man was not foolishments, mun was suicide." "Well, foolishness or suicide, they were thrown onto Exmouth Head four days past and all hands perished. The next day the sea gave up one of her victims -- a redheaded man, and bythat red head, a medal round his neck and th' cut o' his clothes identified as a Cullenlander. We gave him over to the Angus Brothers and the next day the Superior of the order called on me, said there were indications he was carrying papers of importance to his family in Cullenland and that those papers were no longer on him. I convinced him of the innocence of the Ness or the Navy and he suggested wreckers. I thought of you and had you sent for." "As I said, m'Lord, 'ere be no more wreckers, but -- " the old man's face brightened -- " 'ere still be strand-gleaners. A strand-gleaner be not outlawed. He can take any goods found on the shore, not on the person of a corpse and broken clear of the hull of a ship." Sir Hubert made a tent of his fingers and looked through them at the captain smiling ironically. "And what act of Parliament made this strand-gleaning lawful?" "'Ere be no act of Parliament made mun lawful. Mun be the law of the sea-folk joined with the strand-dwellers and handed down father to son for six hundred years. Mun is older than Parliament." Sir Hubert shrugged. "I guess that is potent law. But in this case, I think we can tap stronger sources like the King's prerogative in flotsam and jetsam. I shall look further into this strand-gleaning. Tell me, are there many strand-gleaners at Exmouth Head?" "Oh no, m'Lord. 'En be agreed be the strand-gleaners that one on 'en shall have a stretch of coast to munself. The strand-gleaner at Exmouth Head be the taverner Will Devers and mun came down from his father Jack Devers and his gaffer Tom Devers an' back all the way in 'eir line. 'En be main proud of the honor, m'Lord." "I don't doubt it," snapped the Lord Deputy. "Picking the bones of Briden's merchant ships! I shall call on Mr. Devers. And I pray you. Captain, do not send word to Master Devers that I am coming. I plan to fall on Mr. Devers by accident. I'll arrange that accident soon." The captain chuckled appreciatively. " 'E be a smooth 'un, 'ee be. 'Ee plans an accident. Mun be some accident." "Yes," frowned Wilfly, "we plan accidents around here. Here are two royals for your trouble. Captain, and there'll be two royals more for your silence too if the innkeeper is taken by surprise." "Tie me up and throw me in the chain locker, should mun get out by my fault. Why, bewig me, ni have the sailmaker sew up my lips with linen thread." IF "That won'e be necessary, Captain. Just go on board the Milady o Plymness and leave the rest to me." A fter the mariner went out the Baron Minor sat a few moments lost in thought, then snapped his fingers and walked from his study to the front hall. He called up the stairs, "Arabella, my love!" "Coming, Wilfly," came the prompt and melodious answer of Dame Arabella Pepinart Wulf-Leigh, the beautiful daughter of Lord High Admiral Alexander Pepinart, a slender, sparkling-eyed, curlyhaired brunette. She had wed the Lord Deputy Warden of the Ness eighteen months previous, two months after the defeat of the Freunch descent on the Plymness. "What id you call me for, my dear?" "Partly to look at you and see how lovely you are," cooed the Knight of the King's Strand, "and that's most important. Of somewhat lesser importance is an invitation. How would you like to leave Wilfly Junior here with his governess, pack a hamper of cold lunch and go out for a day on the green and possibly spend the night at a country inn?" "Corking!" she enthused, then frowned. "And what about work? Do you have some scheme of inspection or some other job in mind while you're down there enjoying life on the green?" Sir Hubert grinned, an abashed sheepish grin. "My darling, you should have been a thief catcher for the Royal Assizes. I did intend to go down to Exmouth to inspect the lighthouse there. I have a responsibility, you know, and whenever a ship is cast up I must go down and quiz the lighthouse keeper. I haven't done it yet in the wreck of the Leveret a few nights back. So if that would spoil it for you -- " He trailed off into an embarrassed silence. "You darling old work-donkey of a man! Of course you wouldn't spoil it. We'll still be together on the coach and lunching on the green, and at the country inn. You ought to be kissed for thinking of this, in fact." She fitted action to the suggestion and threw her arms about his neck. She planted a light but tender smack on his lips, then darted away, laughing, before he could catch her up. "Not now, my love. Later on the green and still better later at the inn; now I must go and order the steward to pack a good lunch and get myself into some country clothing. I'll be down in half an hour." Noting Wulf Leigh's eyebrows raised in amused and quizzical challenge, she amended hastily: "Well, in an hour at any rate." II I t was a glowingly radiant couple that Will Devers, the Taverner of Exmouth, welcomed to his courtyard under his grimly ominous sigh of the "Foundered Ship" that evening. Milady's eyes sparkled. Her every gesture was filled with the innocent enjoyment of the afternoon and the promise of earthier pleasures in the night to come. The Deputy Warden was tanned and relaxed. Hiere a slight knittmg of bis brows as if some unhappy thout lay in ambush at the back of his brain. Will Devers was in seventh heaven. He bustled around and burbled as he bustled. "No, m'Lord, Milady, mun be'nt often that quality folk like 'ee honor my humble way station. Avast, ye lubber!" he bellowed at a porter. "Don't handle her Ladyship's portateau so roughly." "You were Navy?" Sir Hubert inquired, stirred by the turn of the host's speech. "Aye, sir. Mun's right, I was four years cook's mate on the Lyonesse, six years cook on the old Indomitable and two years captain's steward on the Thunderer. Then I came back here a trained man and took over the inn from my old dad. Mun's been the way we Dever's have readied oursens for three or four generations." The Baron Minor chuckled. "I'm glad you mentioned that service as steward; else I was set to walk out. Navy ration cooking isn't my idea of good backround for a taverner." "No, my Lord, mun ben't," agreed the landlord. He ushered them to seats at a large oak table, and began to lavish attentions on them. "Some wine, m'Lord, Milady? I have some good Chambergnon, some passable Madura -- " "Don't bother with your list, Master Devers, just bring a bottle of Rossa." "Darling." The soft word was made all full of sharp and thorny edges, and Lady Arabella's glance would have frozen the wine in its flagons. Sir Hubert got the message. "I'm afraid I forgot. Master Taverner," he explained, "that my doctor in Lindesnes forbade me the pleasures of the vine. I indulged a little too much in those pleasures in recent years and my liver survives only on sufferance." The landlord stood in silent sympathy for this sudden revelation of human frailty in one of so great a station, then shook his head sadly. "Ten bells!" the unusual sailor's oath burst from his lips. "To be so rich and yet so poor." Then his face brightened. " 'Er doctor didn't warn 'ee beyond the vine, did he? He didn't warn 'ee to beware the fruits of the tree, did he?" The Baron Minor fixed him with an intense stare. "No, he didn't. Master Devers. What do you have in mind?" "Well, sir, mun's perry, made of pears, from a tree. So wholesome mun be, the doctors hereparts give mun to colicky children. Shall I bring 'ee some?" The Lord Deputy Warden looked at his wife who shrugged a grudging assent. "Very well, host, you may bring us some." T he perry, when it came, was not exactly an attractive drink, a murky gray color with some slight overtones of green and gold. Wulf Leigh raised his glass to Lady Arabella in a brave toast. "Here's to you, my lady, may this drink exceed its looks in the quality of its IF taste as you, my lady, exceed all other ladies in beauty." With a comical grimace, he murmured: "It had better I For in its looks, it puts me in mind of some of those half poisonous potions they fed me when I was taking the cure at Inverhocking." They were very pleasantly surprised. The perry went down smoothly and sweetly, with just enough fermentation in the drink to add a faintly acrid tang. They enjoyed a second glass before the roast was on the table and at the end of the meal. Sir Hubert ordered the landlord to put six bottles with their baggage and contracted for the weekly delivery of six bottles to the steward of Ness House. "And if the good King comes to Ness House, I shall introduce him to your perry. And a pox take me," enthused the Warden of the Ness, "if you don't get a warrant or patent or whatever they call it as the royal purveyor of perry to His Majesty "'Is blood!" gasped the innkeeper. Then, suddenly abashed, "Regretting the profanity to 'er Ladyship, but mun gave such a start; me a warranted royal purveyor with the right to stamp the royal coat of arms on every bottle. Why, I'd have to double-size my orchard!" "I don't doubt it," gruffed the eminent semi-naval person. Then his face, which had been relaxed a few moments before, now suddenly straightened into the grim visage of a sentencing judge. "If my Lordship can, I can also take away. I'd have a word with you. Master Devers, in your cabinet or study or counting room or wherever you keep your accounts. Arabella, go up to your chambers and indulge yourself in the totally unnecessary fripperies that you needlessly undergo to make yourself beautiful." The former Miss Pepinart gasped in pleasure. "Why, Wilfly, that's one of the nicest things you've ever said to me. Get done with your business quickly. I'll be waiting up." With an arch-conspiratorial smile on her face, she flitted nimbly upstairs. The taverner led the way into his counting room and watched uneasily as his lordship shut the door as soon as he had lit the candle. "If mun's the Chambergnon that ires 'ee 'ere are lawful ways of getting mun. I can explain..." "Don't worry about that, host. I'm not after smuggled merchandise tonight, even though it migjit go better with you if you turned up at the prize auction at Plymness more often than you do now if you're going to sell Freunch wines. I aim to make inquiry into another and more delicate matter. I refer of course to one of the ways in which you acquire property." " 'Ee means, sir?" The innkeeper assumed a baffled look. Sir Hubert's words were sharp and incisive. "I mean, sir, an infringement upon one of the King's rights, the right of the King to possession of all valuables cast up or thrown overboard from wrecks or ships in danger of foundering, the prerogative of flotsam and jetsam. I charge you. Master Devers, with infringement of that right. I charge you with being the strand-gleaner for Exmouth-Kead." B lustered the hosteler, " oo told 'ee that? Mun be a lie!" "The man I got the information from is quite reliable," Wulf-Leigh responded coldly. "I would not advise you to deny it or I shall have to take strong measures." Poor Will shivered. "And ee'd be the man to do mun." Then, a little defiantly. "Very well, my Lord. I own to mun. I be the Strand-gleaner for Exmouth and my father and his father before him as far back as our family Bible shows." The Deputy Warden spoke through tautened lips with a grim smile on his face. "You are not setting up a prescriptive right adverse to the King, are you, Taverner? That is called constructive treason and the penalty is death -- in the case of a commoner by hanging, or of a noble by the axe -- forfeiture of all goods and chattels, attainder of real property and burial in Pauper's Ground." "My Lord," sobbed the new terrified Devers, " 'ee'd do mun to a poor man for picking a few gauds and baubles off the beach? " "Don't be alarmed. Will, I'm not going to do that to you yet. But you must work with me. You know the wreck of the Leveret three or four nights ago? There was a Cullenlander washed up on the beach. He is reported by some powerful persons of my acquaintance to be carrying papers when he drowned. Do you have those papers?" The strand-gleaner hesitated a moment, weighing the advantages of truth against lie. Truth won. "Aye, m'Lord, I do; as I have most everything else I have ever gleaned from the strand. Mun be strandgleaner's law that he must hold and not sell the gifts of the sea lest he be in dire straits." With which words he pulled out a two by four foot trunk and opened it to reveal the fruits of two hundred years of Devers's gleaning. Bracelets, brooches, gold and silver candlesticks, piles of coins glittered dully along with leather objects, books, piles of banknotes still stained by the sea. The Baron Minor whistled in adroyals worth of goods in that chest. You're a rich man. Landlord." " 'Ere mus' be. But I've never counted mun. Mun be bad luck for a strand-gleaner to count his goods. Gaffer did mun, and the next day he got caught in a patch of sink-sand and was nought left o him but his hat. 'Ere be the papers ye're wanting. I broke the seal on the package and found nought but six o' those five Naflon pieces and a silly letter." He handed over a thin packet of oilskin . The government representative huffed imperiously, "You shouldn't break seals, even Naflon seals. It's a bad habit to get into. Silly letter, eh? What's silly about it?" "See for yourself, m'Lord. Mun be nought to understand save the name at the end, Ian Macconnail. Mun be the name o' one of the Cullenlanders rebels who fled to Naflon's court." IF S ir Hubert looked at the now unfolded paper with growing interest and intensity. Aside from the bold signature of Ian Macconail there were eight lines divided into two groups, one of six lines and one of two. The first group read in large capital script: Then having a third of the page blank were the small case script letters : o.l.r.e.h.r.d.a.a.n.e.h.w.i.l. r.e.l.a.h.w.i.o.i.u. "Mun be queer, ben't mun?" probed the innkeeper, breaking in on Wulf-Leigh's iritense scrutiny. "Mun be queer indeed," ironically answered the safekeeper of the Ness. "It's the kind of queer thing that deserves a further looking into by my office. Taverner Devers, I shall look into the possibility of getting you hereditable letters patent as strand-gleaner of Exmouth Head for the good service you rendered the commonweal in preserving this letter." " 'ee means," squeaked the innkeeper, "that mun'd be legal to glean the strand? I don't know, sir. Would take all the joy out of mun, knowing mun were within the law. But thank 'ee kindly, sir." "Ha!" the Warden teased triumphantly. "So you admit you've been acting outside the law! I could confiscate all your ill-gotten gains. But I shan't. You shall have your letters patent at any rate. You may even keep five of the six Naflon sinkers that you have from the dead Cullenlander. I'll need the sixth for evidence if the message reads as I think it will." Will Devers was agog, trying to keep up with the fast-acting mind of the Ness chief. " 'ee means 'ee's solved mun?" "Not yet," acknowledged Sir Hubert. "But I shall and soon. I would advise you strongly to say nothing of this to anyone. Let no one know that you gave me this paper; not even your wife." The ex-Particular Clerk to the Board of Lord High Admirals opened the door of the counting room and walked out, the letter clutched in his fist, muttering: "So the Compassionate brethren of St. Angus have friends whose family receives letters from Ian Maconnail. This will require looking into." He came up into the chambers prepared for him, kissed his wife lightly as she waited his coming clad in a night-rail and with the pillows propped up behind her and then, lighting a spill from the low burning coals on the hearth, lit two tapers, took a sheet of paper from his dispatch case and set out to break the message. Lady Arabella watched for a few moments with impatience and annoyance writ large on her face and finally spoke. "Darling -- " the endearment had an icy edge -- IF "aren't you going to come to bed? I thought we were going to do nothing but enjoy ourselves at the inn. That can surely wait tiU morning." "No, my dear." Sir Hubert's lips were taut. "I'm afraid it can't. I must arrive at Plymness at a reasonable hour of the morning so that none will suspect I've acquired and been working on important papers. Besides which I'm doing it in part for you." tone was less annoyed, more interesting. "How's that?" "It pleases you to be Lady Deputy Warden of the Ness?" He waited her answering nod. "How would you like to be Milady Lieutenant of Cullenland?" "Pooh! No Baroness Minor could have that title. I'd have to be a Viscountess for that. You mean that paper -- " the daughter of Lord High Admiral Pepinard was born and bred to pride of place and pKsition as the reward of service -- "can spell a viscount's rank and the Lord Lieutenancy?" "I can't be sure, but it jolly well might. We will have to solve it first, and then see what message the rebel Ian Maconnail is sending from his exile. Have I your leave to work on, lady love?" She made a half-comic moue of disdain, then murmured in a voice overlaid with tenderness: "Go on, my kind old work-donkey. You'd probably work with my leave or without, so go with your little game and make me a viscountess." "Thank you, wife." He used a gruff tone to hide his own growing passion, and turned again to the hidden message before him. He murmured aloud as his thinking began to warm up: "Let's see now; this can't be too hard a cipher to break. It's one designed to be read by men of limited education as most of these rebels are. This naturally limits the ingenuity of the code. Those letters X and E appear repeated too often to be without meaning. Probably it marks something about the letters before and behind it. Now before is the most logical choice, so to think like a Cullenlander, we'll chose letters after. Let's see now, XE A XE B C. Why, that's nothing more or less than an alphabetic progression! That's a trap for the unwary cipher clerk and I walked into it a little. Let's see what we get with the letters before it. doesn't make sense. How I wish Groberd, the cipher clerk of the Lord High Admirals, were here now! How about those two bottom lines: they don't have XE's. in front of them. Maybe that's meant as an interposition cipher. Let's see now: That's not much better than the first essay. Let's see what else mlght signify a meaning. How about those periods after each of the letters in the last two lines? Are they decorations or do they delimit the words? Let's try again: TO AL TR BE... Suddenly the Warden of the Ness sprang from the table, dashed over to his wife, planted a hearty smack on her unprepared lips and exclaimed: "I've got it! It's a cipher of interposition and abbreviation. Listen to this: 'To all true believers the Prince Edward Pantler lands in Celtland the twenty-fifth all true believers will rise at dawn the twenty-fifth long live Cullenlandl "So there's the message to a needy family that the Father Superior of the Angusards was so concerned about! I think Captain Cruffin was right. They are a pack of Pantlerists." "So what are you going to do about it, my relentless husband?" Though the words were harsh, their tone was melting. His words were crisp and incisive as he pulled open his stock loosened and shed shirt and riding coat. "Tonight, my dear, I will do absolutely nothing. We can't go dashing into town alarming everyone and especially the good brethren of St. Angus. Tomorrow morning we will ride sedately into town, and I shall call on the Father Superior and we shall indulge in a little mutual wool pulling -- he over my eyes and I over his. After that I shall have a talk with my signal yeoman and see how our dry land mast and hoist oonmiunications system works with a message to Lindesnes. As for tonight, I have other fish to fry -- beginning with a delicious little trout who is too fond -- " The warmth and tenderness in his voice belying even the mock anger in his words -- "of calling her loving husband an old work-donkey." "Wilfy." Her voice melted into complete surrender. "Be gentle with me when you devour me, won't you?" lU T he Deputy Warden's coach drew up in front of the grimfacaded, weather-streaked, graystone building that housed the Priory of the Order of St. Angus. The Lord Deputy kissed his wife lightly, dismounted from the coach and entered the ante-hall of the Priory. A novice of the order met him there and said he would announce him to the Father Superior. The ante-hall was dimly lit, as befitted the former ownership of the building, a powerful noble family that had taken part in all the turmoils, intrigues and civil wars that had plagued Briden throughout the dark and middle ages and the beginning of the modem era. To a family of that sort, narrow slits of windows that arrows could be fired through or hot lead and oil dripped out of made sense. Two dim lamps called special attention to one of the walls, where a smoke-begrimed mural showed St. Angus bargaining with one of the pagan petty kings of ancient Cullenland for the freedom of a small enslaved boy. Sir Hubert was engrossed in studying this mural when Father Superior entered noiselessly and coughed softly to attract Wulf-Leigh's attention. "Ah, Father Superior, I'm glad to see you. You're in good health?" "Better in health of the spirit, my Lord Deputy, than of the bcxiy; but we accept whatever bounties in that IF matter the Lord bestows upon us. You, too, seem well. Your old liver complaint has not bothered you?" "Yes," he huffed, "I enjoy good health and expect to fill the Lord's commandment to be fruitful and multiply. You may wonder why I have come?" "I do," the Angusard replied laconically. "I had hoped it might be concerned with the papers of the unfortunate Tachacullen -- pardon me, you eastern folk would call him a Cullenlander, but we of the breed call them sons of Cullen or Tachacullen in the old tongue. His family may suffer great distress if they do not get their hands on the papers," Sir Hubert could be a consumately smooth liar when his country's interests were at stake. He lied now: "I have some strong leads, Father, but they are still not ready for the oven. They are a close-mouthed lot, these men of the Ness shires, and they have some strange customs and odd beliefs. One of the customs is called strand-gleaning, the gathering of chattels spread along the beach by the dark angel of storms. I am fully convinced that the strandgleaners have your unfortunate friend's possessions. But I must move slowly and cautiously. These strand folk have some odd beliefs too." "For instance?" The father's voice was cold, his face an expressionless mask. "They all have a deep and abiding belief that you of the Confraternity are Pantlerists." The eyes in the expressionless mask flickered for an instant -- with hate, defiance, fear? -- then the emotional visor dropped down again. "And you, what do you think? Are we Pantlerists?" Sir Hubert closed up his figurative helmet and gave back just as curtly as his adversary: "I believe nothing I cannot prove before a judge and jury to their satisfaction and that of the public hangman." Now a faint smile cracked the mask. "Then you believe in our innocence of these absurd charges?" #X did not say that," the Knight of the King's Strand pointed up the fine distinction. "I said only that I was not convinced of your guilt. There's a sharp difference between one and the other. There are two things I should like to know to that I can move more effectively against those holding the papers. First off, how did you know of his status as a messenger, and second, why this unseemly .haste about the delivery of the papers?" The priest answered cautiously: "It's more or less a legal matter." Seeing the raised eyebrows of the Deputy Warden, he explained hurriedly, "You know the law of the deadman's hand. It's not in your Bridish law, but in Cullenland and some parts of Celtland, it is still held by. It is decreed that any property belonging to one who has passed must be delivered to either the inheritors, a chief or a priest of the Holy Church within ten days or else must be destroyed or buried with the deceased." Sir Hubert grumped. "That's a strange kind of law. What court handed it down?" Father Superior raised his eyes to heaven momentarily as if calling upon the supernatural powers to free him from his tormentor. "That's very old; the ancient code of Patran-na-Tachan, the fathers of the clan or Chiefs' Law. It is very practical in dealing with property matters in courts where it is still observed." "Oh, of course you mean the hedge courts. I've heard that they cause a great deal of trouble for Bridish justice. But even granting the jurisdiction and rightness of this law you still haven't explained how you knew him to be a courier, and where from he was carrying messages." The priest made the heavenseeking grimace once ag#in. "You know, sir, that he had certain empty wallets and an empty money belt. There were certain marks on those wallets which proclaimed him a courier. As to the origin of his messages, that's a trifle embarrassing. You know in the last Pantlerist risings several hundred Tachacullen were forced to flee their land and settle in Fraunce. These men had family left jn the old land, helpless wives and children, aged mothers and disabled fathers. These men have grown old and died in the fifty years since that futile revolt but their sons and grandsons carry on the task. They serve in Freunch bodyguard troops. Since Naflon has seen fit to honor, to some extent, the Pantler claimant, they serve in the Pantler court and they send money home. They support, 'kinfolk, orphanages, schools." Sir Hubert had caught the priest in a lie, but he chose not to press his advantage. He knew that no wallets or money belts had been on the Cullenlander's body when it was found. "Very well," he lied blandly in retort, "these are good things. We shall for once forget about possible legal results of having intercourse with His Majesty's enemies and shall endeavor to so press the folk of Exmouth so that you shall have the document in the ten days prescribed by the high and puissant court of the hedgerow. Good day. Father Superior." N ess House was regarded as part of the Navy establishment. As a 'result the Deputy Warden of the Ness had at his disposal a signal yeoman and a towering backyard mast that tied into a chain of masts that stretched across the country to provide for speedy communications with Navy House, the headquarters of the Board of Lord High Admirals. Now the youthful signaler came into the study of the master of Ness House, eager to end his long days of relative idleness. "You sent for me, sir. Have a message?" "No," sarcastically drawled Sir Hubert. "I invited you here for a game of chess." Changing to a more kindly tone, he went on: "Yes, I do have a message. You haven't had too many during the last year so I hope your skills are up to it." "Aye, sir. They are. Me and the other signal chaps keep our bands in with messages under a signal that warns practice message, disregard." IF "A good idea. But this message is not for practice. Make: Ness House to Navy House for transmittal to King's First Minister. Have uncovered treasonous plot. Urgent you meet me. Cannot afford to move more than one day's ride from Plymness, WulfLeigh Deputy Warden. Make that message with as few hoists as is possible. How long do you think that will take?" "That will take some doing, sir. Let's see Ness House number, Navy House number, signal forward instead of transmit (with your leave, sir) King's First Minister (one hoist for that) Use an event past hoist instead of have and the respondent signal for guns uncovered leaving off the guns pennant; treasonable, we'll have to spell out; the Navy don't have a signal for treason. Plot we can get easily enough -- put up plot a course and leave off the signal for course. Urgent, thank the Lord is an easy one, almost all our Lord High Admirals' messages have that hoist; meeting we'll use another single hoist; numerical and a day sign; ride we'll have to spell out, make the number for Plynmess. That's twenty-five pennants at five seconds a hoist. That's two minutes and five seconds. Allow ten seconds a pennant for make-ready. That's four minutes and ten seconds or six minutes and fifteen seconds for the whole message. There are twelve masts to Navy House. Allow ten seconds a mast for alerting the yeomen and you get seventy-seven minutes to Lindesnes, allowing a half an hour to deUver the message to King's first and seventy-five minutes foe return (everybody will be alerted by then). And you will have your answer in a little over three hours." A ctually it was three hours and thirty-five minutes before the message came back: "Meeting agreeable. Expect you at Vaughanby house two hours after sunrise tomorrow. Vaughan King's First Minister." Vaughanby was a great, red-brick some men said by the graft and bribe-taking that were almost a prerequisite of a First Minister's early years in the office. Now, with his material needs satisfied, Vaughan thirsted for glory and regard as a pre-eminent statesman. He seemed likely to get that meed of honor for his conduct of the Naf Ionic war. His greeting to Sir Hubert was traditionally laconic. "Well, Wilfly, you've gotten me to ride sixty leagues in a day. You've done the same. That message of yours had better be of earth-shaking importance." "It is, sir," the Baron Minor assured him. "There is to be a rising in Cullenland, and to some extent the Confraternity of St. Angus of the Open Hand are subject to the charge of suborning the revolt." "There is always a revolt coming in Cullenland," the First Minister denigrated, as he led the way to the dining hall where a buffet table awaited them. "The skill in government is to find out when and who and how." "I can give you that information. The rising is set for dawn of the twenty-fifth to coincide with a Pantlerist landing in Celtland. Here are the proofs." He spread out the coded letter and his copy of it, and demonstrated the way he had broken it down. The chief of the government was impressed and studied it carefully while Wulf-Leigh attacked a kipper and pewter mug of steaming tea. Now the First Minister showed some enthusiasm for the find. "This is good show, S'r'ubert. You've given us an exact date on the Pantler Landing which he expected but didn't know quite when. But -- " here Vaugh frowned -- "you've also thrown in a Cullenlander revolt which will divide our forces and may afford the Pantlerists some success." "Suppose, sir, that the Cullenlander revolt and the Pantler landing failed to occur on the same day. Would that help?" "Would that help? By the bones of Henry Pantler, would that help! With four days leeway between them we could crush the Cullenlanders, recross the sea and still be in time to crush Edward Pantler when he lands in Celtland or vice versa. But how are you going to do it? How do you outwit a rather shrewd pack of rebels and the equally astute nest of Angusards whom you've unmasked or are going to unmask?" "My good Lord Vaughan," the watcher of the western gate assured him, "I have some reputation for this sort of deception. In fact I've gotten the sword tap for King's Strand for false-lighting the Freunch to their defeat above Plymness. If I can't do the same to a bunch of Cullenlanders just as easily, I ought to turn back my sashes. Are you sure that given a four-days' switch in the rebel plans you can outfight them?" "If you update the revolt by four days, I'm sure enough to promise you that I'll turn in my seals of office if I fail. You see, Macconnail has his strength concentrated in three areas, the back streets of Elmore city, the glens around Dunican Bay and in what were once, before the rising that broke clan, the Macconnail lands north of Moiree. If we strike those three areas in overwhelming force, the rising will die a -- boming. Do you need any help from Lindesnes?" Wulf-Leigh thought for a moment then nodded, "There is one thing where you could help me. You have a certain influence with the court of Royal Assize and Jail Delivery sitting in Lindesnes?" Vaughan harumphed: "I have that influence. How do you choose to use it? You know it would help the war against Naflon no end to get the Cullenlander rebels off our backs and the Pantlerists over the hip." The Baron Minor outlined the help he sought and got the promise full cooperation, including the use of a communcating mast at Vaughanby for a messa to Lindesnes to get the judges of Royal Assizes off to a running start on the necessary papers for the matter of his request. "Now -- " suddenly growing IF saturnine -- "there comes the bargaining. If you succeed in this design, what quid do you want tor your quo? You surely didn't go to all this trouble fcwr amusement alone." Sir Hubert assumed a mask of injured innocence. "My Lord, my only concern is to better serve my country. But if rewards and punishments are to be handed out, my wife would dearly love the title of Viscountess." "You sly dog," chuckled the King's First Minister, "that's the shrewdest way to ask for a viscounty that I ever heard. Make my wife a Viscountess, my Lord! Why, for that jape alone I'm half inclined to make you a Viscount whether you succeed or fail. And as for serving your country, what would you say to the Lord Lieutenancy of Cullenland when Lord Moreham steps down in about six months? You'll keep of course the revenues from your present office. They're an irrevocable life grant." All the Warden could say was a simple, "Thank you, M'lord." IV T hree days later, one night remaining of the ten days allotted by the chiefs' law of the dead hand, a little gamecock of a man was ushered into the Deputy Warden's study and allowed to introduce himself. "Me nyme's Jemmy Fyker, your worship, a calligrapher from Lindesnes down by the post coach from Lindesnes, hat your service." He made a sweeping bow. His worship was not amused. "Hold it, fellow. I have your fUe before me, and it says that you're Jessamy Cowles, lagged for forgery and sentenced to three years at hard labor to be followed by the amputation of your right thumb. If you'll work honestly for me, I can promise your thumb at least will be spared and your other punishment lessened. So no more of his Jemmy Fyker story." "Hit ayn't no loie, sir," bristled the little man. "Me name's been Jemmy for nigh six years and a calligrapher's happrentice for six years before that. I'm a Grykie, hi haim, a real Grykie born not honly in the shadow o' Gry Kirk o' Fields but in the blooming rectory. Me pa was sexton. Hi was 'is second son. 'Is heldest was to follow 'im as sexton so 'e happrenticed me to a calligrapher. Six years did Jessamy Cowles lybor at the work and learned hall that man could teach 'im. Then h'i asked for moi freedom and me journeyman's pypers but the bond said seven years and 'e swore 'ed 'old me to hit. There was a bit of a wench hin it too, yer honor. So Hi swore hi'd py 'im hout and Hi did. Hi forged 'is nyme and seal to a note of 'and for a 'undred royals and sold hit hon the thieves' market. 'E' didn't 'ave the 'undred royals when hit cyme due and 'e tried to deny the signature. 'E knew 'oo 'ad done hit but 'e couldn't prove hit hand they took 'im awy to debtor's jyle. My bond was forfeited too but no calligrapher would tyke me on. They knew oi was too smart for them. So Jemmy Fyker Hi became, hutterer hof forged notes, false deeds and anything helse you moit need." The Baron Minor's comment was only a laconic: "How many times were you caught?" "Honly this once, yer 'onor," came the proud reply, "hand wouldn't 'ave been now if there 'adn't been a bit of a wench hin hit too. You see." The Deputy Warden cut him off abruptly. "Enough romance. You've been brought by the post coach from Lindesnes to do a particular piece of work, and the question remains to be proven, how good are you at your craft?" "Hi'll show you. Hi will. Wroite yer signature, sir. As a precaution, sir, lest Hi betempted, write hit with yer left 'and. Hi never loikes to see a man's true signature when H'm workin' for 'im". Arabella's husband scrawled a shaky and uncertain "Wulf-Leigh" on the sheet in front of him. Jemmy Fyker took a quick though intense look at it and then, quickly (or anyway relatively quickly) produced a copy indistinguishable from the original in every shake and squiggle. "You'll do," gasped the Knight of the King's Strand. "Now here's what you must do." So saying, he brought out the cipher note. Jemmy took one look at it and said: "Hi can't do hit. That's Freunchie pyper and Hi don't suppose you've hany of that." Sir Hubert smiled. "The Navy can work miracles too." He reached into his draw and took out a dozen sheets of identical weave linen paper. To the astonished forger, he explained laconically, "From a prizer auction, you know. For your share in this, I'll give you two hundred pounds, and Lord Vaughan will get you a King's Covenanted Pardon if our plan works." For once Jemmy Fyker was almost silenced. He burbled a feeble "Crikey!" and set to work. The message from Macconnail was in the hands of the Augusard brothers on the fourth of the month, within the limits of the Chiefs' Law of the dead hand. By the seventh of the month certain messages were going through the back-roads and byways of Cullenland. Men uprooted hearthstone flags and unwound the wrappings form long secreted muskets; axes were sharpened, broadswords taken from ornamental displays and whetted for grimmer use. I n Briden too, preparations were made. On the seventeenth an upland loyalist regiment and two squadrons of Celtland dragoons sailed across the broad strait that was miscalled the Cullenlander Sea and marched across the northern part of Cullenland, timing their march to arrive in Moires late in the evening of the twentieth. On the same evening two regiments usually stationed in the Middle Counties and household Cavalry arrived in the near shore glens of Dunnican Bay. Three companies of marines and a regiment of the Ness-shire militia, blooded and battle-proven against IF the Freunch assault, also made a dark of night landing in Elmore. On the twenty-first at dawn the revolution exploded but there were too many troops in just the right places to wet it down. By noon of the twenty-third the back of the revolt was broken and most of the troops could be withdrawn, put back on the ships that had brought them and sailed back across the Cullenlander Sea to be ready for the Pantler Pretender when that worthy landed near Overwick. By the twenty-seventh Edward Pantler was being marched southward, not at the head of his troops but as a state prisoner bound for trial and execution at Lindesnes Castle. On the thirtieth, the Father Superior of the Confraternity of St. Angus was announced as the Lord Deputy was breakfasting. Hospitably Sir Hubert invited him to enter. "A very good morning to you, your worship. You'll have some eggs and a rasher of bacon." Noting the pained expression on the Byzantine churchman's face he shrugged. "Ah, yes, it's one of your meager days. Then how about a kipper? Make free of the sideboard. There's tea and a half-jug of an excellent beverage called perry by way of beverages. Can I help you in any way. Father?" The priest gulped hard as if about to swallow a nasty dose and spoke in a low voice. "I am afraid I must confess some liability for the recent rising in Cullenland. You see. Lord Deputy, I was not quite frank in our last interview. I knew that the unfortunate man who was cast ashore from the wreck of the Leveret was a Macconnail courier. I knew that which he carried was a cipher calling the people of Cullenland to a revolt. I saw the message was forwarded to the proper people. So much innocent blood lies on my poor head." "To which, Reverend Father," answered a grim-faced Wulf-Leigh, "may be added your own. You realize that your last statement repeated in front of witnesses can bring your conviction on a charge of High Treason; and we do not allow the benefit of clergy in this country any more. My own testimony alone is not sufficient to convict, you, but I can and should have you bound over to the examining magistrates of His Majesty's Court of High Justice." The Father Superior shrugged, raised his eyes toward heaven as though welcoming a martyr's crown. "Bind me over; bring your witnesses; none of your courts can punish me worse than I am punished already." He threw up his arms in a gesture of despair and desolation. "Behold a shepherd who has lost his flock." The baron Minor relaxed slightly his grim-set jaw. "Ah, perhaps my Lord Vaughan already has heard this and decreed banishment. If my poor influence can insure the softening of your exile -- " The Angusards' leader smiled weakly. "No, your lordship, the King's first minister knows naught of this. I am banished by a far sterner tribunal, the hearts and wills IF of my people. You know that I am charged with the aid of unfortunate and desolate Cullenlanders. So when a shipload of poor prisoners arrived in Plymness yesterday from Elmore city, already tried and sentenced to be shipped to the penal colonies in the Antipodes, I and a dozen of my brothers in the Lord went down to aid them and ease their suffering. They would have none of our comforts. They said we had betrayed them, that too many Bridish troops had arrived too soon. They had learned from the over-boastful gaolers that even the comfort of aiding the success of the Pantlerist landing by their demonstration had been dendied them. So they turned a deaf ear to our prayers and answered our supplications by pelting us with hard bread. The captin then ordered us from the ship and chided us for disturbing his prisoners. Come noose, come axe; you can hurt me no worse." The Deputy Warden looked long and hard at the man of the cloth before replying. "I think you're right. No punishment that our justice can mete out will hurt you more than that which you have already received at the hands of your own people. Now if you would write a statement of your involvement..." He paused as the prelate drew out a scroll and handed it to him across the desk, then examined the missive and stuffed it into a cubbyhole. "That's just right. It will serve as -- shall we say -- insurance against your further involvement in Pantlerist plots. With Edward Pantler waiting the axe, and the old King clamant enfeebled by age, there won't be any plotting now for a generation. All true believers will be more cautious next time." At this last phrase the priest's eyebrows rose suddenly. Bereft for a moment of speech he could do no more than point an accusatory finger at the baron minor. The baron minor in matched silent byplay nodded, smiled and fixed the prelate with a stare, as if to say: "That's right, I knew of your letter and gave you an altered copy which caused the rising to be premature. Now you know it but you can't prove it." But all he said aloud was, "Good MTugBOl IF  Feature Our Man in Fandom shows us the wonderful world of fan clubs that span the planet! The Coast-to-Coasters L ast month in this space we were talking about the science-fiction superclubs that were a natural out growth of the "itch to organize" that has always been rife in sf fandom. First the local clubs, then the state organizations, then as a logical progression, somebody comes up with the idea that there should be a coast-to-coast organization covering the whole country and incorporating all of the sciencefiction fans in one whopping big fanclub. I told you about some of the organized by Negro fan James Fitzhalf-dozen or so other Leagues, Associations, Fraternities, Legions and whatever, culminating in the one superclub that really worked ed by Hugo Gemsback and Charles D. Hornig and sponsored by some years before Wonder was sold to another publisher and the local chapters began to split off, dissatisfied with the autocratic, centralized structure of this, the world's largest sf fan club. In its time, though, the League actually had several thousand members, and chapters from one end of the country to the other, including branches overseas. Even though the mighty League collapsed at last, it did serve as an example of just how big and influential a national club could be, and it was an example worth striving to emulate in the years that followed. Here are some of the emulators... The Big Associations had gasped its last gasp, there were people trying to revivify the notquite-extinct cadaver. A small group which split off from the East New get the ball rolling with a thing called the ball refused to roll and the whole thing went under in #. got going. It planned an "official organ" (I'm sorry, but that's what club magazines are called, echh, what an awkward term I) to be named The American Fantasy Magazine, but the organ died in embryo as did its parent organization. Across the pond in Britain, meanwhile, another association was it was open to U.S. members and did indeed have some Amerifans in it. ting on conventions, and through it the British fen organized three anual cons -- each bigger and better than the last, according to reports. The Association looked forward to a bright add happy future, but then along came something called World it became dormant. The Science Fictioneers I suppose it was inevitable, given the success of Wonder's Science Fiction League (which must have helped boost circulation and multiply reader-interest in tihe magazine), that another prozine eventually try the experiment. The one that did was a now-defunct magazine called Super Science Stories, not at all a bad magazine in its day, home of many good Kuttner and Asimov yarns. Super Science announced a club pretty closely on Gernsback's League. The magazine printed names and addresses  of members as they wrote in and organized local branches here and there, but never as many as the League ihad. The Science Fictioneers, while a pale shadow of the great League of yore, did at least get some clubs going in vicinities where no club had previously been organized. The thing might just possibly have succeeded in being another giant-size League, but (again!) World War II came thundering in, and a nasty corollary, the paper shortage, killed the magazine, and the club died instanter. But then, around # or thereabouts, something new came on the scene. It was so ambitious, sounded so active and so very promising, that it took a little time for people to realize just how vague and screwy it was. I am talking about: The Crazy Days of The Cosmic Circle There was once a fan named Claude Deglcr. He wandered about the country hitch-hiking and busriding, trying single-'handedly to organize the nation's fans into an sf superclub to end all superclubs... rather like Peter the Hermit, who went about rabble-rousing for the First Crusade. Degler's crusade was body ever quite knew what it was, but from all the noise and excitea capital B, I, and G. Degler the Hermit contacted fans all over the country, chiefly through names and addresses printed on letters in the prozines; he announced in grandiose terms his Circle, urged them to lurk about newsstands in their town and sign up anybody who bought sf magazines, offered them all sorts of charters and things and generally cut loose in fifteen different directions with a flurry of activity that made most fans look sluggish. He announced local sectors of the Cosmic Circle like one in Tennessee called "The Circle of Atzor" and the "Alabama All-Fans" and the "Valdosta Philosophers" in Georgia. Other local or regional branches of the Cosmic Circle existed (on paper at least, or in Degler's feverish imagination anyway) in Florida, Louisiana, Indiana and so on. The Cosmic Circle was supposed to be a union of anybody anywhere who had a "cosmic outlook." Almost at once, the CC claimed # members, but it was hard to tell exactly who really did belong to it, because Degler filled his various "official" publications with pseudonymous writings. In fact, Claude used so many pen names and mentioned so many fictitious members, that it was never easy at any given time to say whether this or that Cosmic Circle member was a real person or just another facet of the fabulous Degler personality. These magazines poured out in fantastic numbers -- The Cosmic Circle Commentator and Fanevs Analyzer and even one called Spicy Spaceship Stories). Claude planned to stir up so much excitement with all these magazines as to create the illusion of a giant, multistate organization throbbing and rumbling in back of him. But not too many people were fooled, and it quickly became apparent that most of the "contributors" to this deluge of fanzines were Degler himself, writing under phoney names. Degler certainly thought big. He announced the formation of regional Circle organizations in Oklahoma and New Mexico and Nevada. He launched a flurry of special fanservice bureaus: a National Fan Directory, a fan vacation camp in Arkansas, a Circle Amateur Publishers Alliance with a circulation of # (which was mighty interesting, since at this time Circle membership was only supposed to be #). He announced still more regional organizations, a Dixie Fantasy Federation, a Southern Circle, a Gulf Circle, a Northwest Federation, a United Califans, Utah Cosmic Fans, and so on. He bombarded real fandom with a snowstorm of weekly fanzines, news bulletins and such and even -- perhaps from sheer hysteria -- even announced a summer school for the IF cosmically-minded kids of fans! It was all a bit too much. Working on the theory that the CC could be laughed out of its pseudo existence, some irate fans in Boston produced a magazine called the Trivial Triangle Troubadour, which was a lampoon of things Deglerian. Francis T. Laney, prominent fan of the period followed with the Comic Circle Commentator ("comic" -- not "cosmic"). Another lampoon was called the Caustic Square Commentator. Fan-wit Bob Tucker dealt the death-blow, by pretending to found an organization yclept The Cosworms. The whole thing collapsed like a house of cards. And it came out somewhile later that Degler had reputedly been committed some years before to a hospital for the insane (around #-#) and had been allegedly released against the advice of his doctors. That did it. No wonder! The National Fantasy Fan Federation Then there's the one coast tocoaster that did work and actually out-performed even the League. The World Science Fiction Convention of #I was held in Denver, Colorado and was called "The Denvention," the name coined by Donald A. Wollheim. Damon Knight gave a speech calling for the creation of a central fan organization. In those days, Damon Knight was a leading fan; today, of course, he is a leading science-fiction writer. After taking a poll of fans for their ideas and after enlisting their support. Knight and Arthur Widner launched The National Fantasy Fan Federation, called the "N#F" or the A general election was held, and a constitutio i was drawn up and finally agreed upon. The first president of the N#F was Louis Chauvenet (the guy who coined the word "fanzine"). America's entry into World War II, that old bugaboo of fandom, hampered the beginning of the N#F, but, after a slow, steady start, it picked up speed. The original idea was to include all U.S. fans and divide the country into regional oups of affiliated local clubs, with a central administrative core of elected officers, an advisory board and several committees, including some sort of legal or judiciary body. These visionary goals never got to working. The National Fantasy Fan Federation is the only nation-wide central fan organization that ever really worked or lasted, not counting the amateur press associations. It is still with us, believe it or don't and has recently celebrated its first quarter century of existence. What Hath Damon Knight Wrought? If you are eager to get into the fan world, there is no better way to do it than to join the N#F (unless there is a local fan club in your vicinity). To do so, send # to Janie Lamb, Route #, Box #, Heiskell, Tenn. #. You will be on the receiving end of a swarm of friendly letters from members of the Welcom or ""welcoming committee" -- the recruiting adjunct of the Federation. You will ako get two official bi-monthly magazines, Tight beam and The National Fantasy Fan, and a host of little brochures called "fanbooks" which will initiate you into various aspects of fanning, such as the world of fan publishing, the amateur press associations, and so on, including a booklet-dictionary of fan jargon. Also, as a Neffer, you will be able to check the membership list which may give names and addresses of fans in your hometown you never knew were there. You may want to get in touch vth veteran Neffer, Seth Johnson, # Stiles St., Vaux Hall, N.J. #. Seth is a tireless correspondent, who likes to talk and give encouragement to newcomers in fandom. Through his Fanzine Clearing House you can for # get an assortment of recent fanzines which will show you the sort of thing that's going on these days. for no longer than a year, for the valuable "introduction to fandom" material I've described above is about all you'll really get for your membership. Unhappily, Damon Knight's dream of a central fan organization never got off the did anything in fandom. It just sort of sits there, big and old and full of members, but never does much. If all you want from fandom is a few long-distance friends to trade letters with, it will be just what you are looking for. But if you happen to be interested in getting into the middle of the real fan world, the Neiffers have nothing for you. Still, why not give 'em a try, Watch for IF IF  Short Story by Jack B. Lawson Smith's World was rough but not fatal -- except to people who were half dead already! Qhip's log would tell Sherril Kierzek O only two things. First, the voyage to Smith's World had lasted # years so far, leaving -- as she remembered the schedule, anyway -- something more than four years to go. And second, she'd been defrosted on instructions from Lewis Cathcart, who was at present drinking in the observatory. And that was where she found him. He was a small, bony man with the orangish complexion common to people who had switched to Richard's blood, and he was floating in the exact center of the room and sneering at the nipple on the brandy bottle. "Here," he said and pushed the bottle at her. "We're lost, you're going to need a drink." She deflected the bottle, brought it to rest against the wall. "What does that mean? Are we going to die?" "It means we're as likely to end up in the Land of the Boojums as Smith's World. Or more precisely, we might not end up at all. Left to itself this thing we're on isn't ever going to decide to slow down." "It won't tell me anything. Just, you had me waked up. You're a logician, aren't you?" Cathcart had drifted to the far wall and lay stretched out against it, arms and legs spread wide. "We used to call this making an angel," he said, twisting his head up to look at himself. "When you jumped into a snowbank in this position." "Is that supposed to tell me something? An oblique way of saying we're going to die, or what? If you -- You do know what's wrong, don't you? The ship did tell you?" "It's a human-solution problem," he said. "Of course I had to be exposed to a full report; but you weren't, 'so your interpretation wouldn't get contaminated -- supposing I Wanted an interpretation from yotf, which I don't. Ship's log was just being discreet." "It's not the only one being coy either, is it? Please, Lewis. What's wrong?" # # understand anything at jLJ all about the guidance system on one of these things? Spacecraft?" "No. Well, I suppose I can see roughly... You couldn't very well aim it ahead of time, could you? Not over eighteen and a half lightyears." "God. Of course not. You couldn't possibly figure out where to end up close, the universe isn't all that tidy." "And you wouldn't just lock on to the light from your destination. You'd want to lead it, and that would mean maps and some way of comparing them with observational data, and deciding what to do on that basis. It shouldn't be very difficult." "Right. Only it's a little more complicated. Of course. Comparing the maps, and what's out there -- " he pointed at the silver-gray lens of the scope -- "takes two pieces of equipment. A collating machine and a selector. Our trouble's in the selector. A thing like that can be practically feebleminded, you know. It's given a few rules -- basically an axiom set -- and in conjunction with the collation results, these tell it to go on pulling maps at such and such intervals and in such and such order. Or else the view doesn't match up quite and the collator measures the inconsistency. Then the selector informs control, determines which map the view's going to look like when the ship gets back on course and starts a new sequence from there. Feebleminded, essentially. Not a job that ordinarily calls for very stiff reasoning, of course." Cathcart pushed away from the wall and drifted past the scope, managed to drag a foot against the floor, swing around and come back to it. "Here," he said, waving his finger over the row of buttons. He poked one and almost floated out of reach of the machine before he caught a handgrip and stopped. The lens blackened and a swanshaped blur formed over three-quarters of its surface, and then the blur resolved into a cloud of stars and in the corners around the swan other stars pricked through the darkness. Just where the neck curved into the head was an intense jab of white, and below, in an isosceles triangle within the swan's breast, flared three more noticeably bright stars, the apex one with a istinctly green tinge. "Smith's World,". Cathcart said. IF tapping the lower righthand side of the lens. "Which we'll never get to. Because there aren't any maps with this thing on them." He touched the bright star in the swan's neck. "The rock of our shipwreck. As far as our selector's concerned, a sky with that in it is imaginary. Certainly no place to go." on the maps -- that's what it has to be, isn't it?" Cathcart punched another button and the lens went back to silvergray. "So now you know. Very funny, I think. What you have to do is suck the bottle and sort of stroke the nipple toward the tip with your tongue. You can work up a whole swallow with patience." She finally got some of the brandy down. "But we'll die, Lewis! The ship will never know when to slow down. We'll just go on past and -- " "Exactly what I was telling you." "But can't we -- the ship defrosted you, can't you think of a way out? Can't you get this selector to ignore the nova? I mean, if -- " "Oh, if the machine had any brains to speak of, there are lots of things I could do. But the thing is, it doesn't. It's set up to do what I told you. Find a certain map at a certain time. Pass it on to the collator. And if anything's wrong, translate the inconsistency into coursecorrection instructions and pass these on to control. Of course, there are inconsistencies and inconsistencies." "Don't people know when a star's going to nova? This ought to have been anticipated." "No doubt. But that isn't going to help us now." "Anyway, my field's microbiology," she said. "Cross-strand modification. What do you think I can do?" Cathcart made a queer shrugging motion, as if putting his head down between his shoulders. "I got you up because it was cold and silent and I felt lonely, if you really have to know." She floated across and #ok his hand between hers, skin on skin. "Like that?" she said. "Yes. Thanks." He looked off, at the bottle rotating slowly over by the door. "I think what I really want is my mother." "But there's nothing you can do?" "Oh, I can do something. Two kinds of thing, to be precise. I can change the rules the selector works from by erasing the whole set and starting over. Not very helpful, since I haven't any idea what to start over with. Or I can add something to the present rules." "What would that mean? You wouldn't have much chance of putting in anything but an imaginary new destination, would you?" "Well, there's an enormous map log claims. Suppose I eliminated one of the rules of selection, added its contradictory to the axiom set, say. Only ne of those determines the point at which the ship must begin to slow down, so I'd have a fair chance of missing that one. In fact, I think I know which one to avoid." "Then we'll go somewhere?" Sherril said, stroking the back of his hand. "Only not to Smith's World, I suppose." "Hardly. Actually, that's one place you can be sure we won't go. But we'll probably go somewhere like it -- Earthlike planets are characteristic of a certain class of sun, as I remember." "Yes. Only I don't think it works out perfectly. Sometimes there's just nothing. It jdepends on... She was silent for a minute, staring at the upper lefthand corner on the far side of the room. "I don't remember. It's been a long time since I had basic astronomy." "Me too. Well, probably we'll head for the right kind of sun. The point of mo rules has to be to eliminate certain map sequences, so what I'll be doing is opening up some of the other possibilities. Hopefully, at least one of these won't be ruled out by the nova. But we'll have to see what turns up. If anything." omething did. It was almost thirty light-years away, according to ship's log -- a fat, green planet spongy with lakes and capped at one pole by an enormous splay of ice. There was even the right sort of atmosphere -- or so Sherril interpreted the spectograph. But there were no plowed fields, no roads, no citydomes, no ring of satellites. Where ever they were, it was outside the human universe. Cathcart got himself into the exact center of the room again and floated there, spinning slightly, with his hands clasped together across his shins and his eyes closed, while Sherril explained things to Jane Shaw and Todd Braithwate, who were teachers and who watched her lips with wide, intent eyes in still faces, and to Richard Ronaldson, who came in last, broad-shouldered and vague, and then kept drifting away to make faces at the planet in the scope. He was a poet. "So what do we do now?" he said finally. "There aren't any people down there." "We go down, obviously," Cathcart said, without opening his eyes. "And then there will be." "That's crazy. There's no point." "Let's think of it as an adventure," Jane Shaw said in a gray voice. Todd wagged an open hand at the scope. The blue of his eyes almost matched the lake color. "Yes. Dick's right. I say we should try again. I agree, Lewis, you did the only possible thing. Acted very cleverly. But this place won't do, surely you see that. And next time -- " "No doubt. But we've got no choice, you have to consider that. No next time. There probably isn't enough fuel left to get, us out of this system. At least I'd hate to try it." Cathcart opened his eyes and grinned at Todd. "So whatever we should do -- " and he finished it with a high shrug. "But there aren't any people down there," Ronaldson said again, showing his teeth around that word "people." "Really, I think we can live," said Sherril. "Lewis and I went over the IF whole thing carefully. The big risk was that we'd end up somewhere without food. But we're in luck. All that green is live stuff, you know." "So you trust," said Cathcart. "And the ship has a doctor of sorts. Well, what else is there? We'll have to do without all the pills civilized people take, I suppose. And so on. Oh, we'll have some problems, but think about it. There's nothing but brute physical nature down there. We're the end products of six thousand years of civilization, intelligent human beings, and what -- " "Especially me," said Cathcart. "Speaking of end products. I happen to have Richard's blood. Excellent stuff, keeps you young longer and cuts in half the time you need to put in sleeping. But it doesn't renew itself. I'll be dead inside three weeks." # C T didn't think about that," A Sherril said after a while. "I couldn't get up nerve to ask you," he said. "But of course there's nothing you could do, is there?" "It would take -- a high speed equipped with waldoes, and who knows what else? That's not really my field, you know -- actually doing things. I'm more on the math side. Sorry. Very sorry, Lewis." "Already down to four little Indians," Ronaldson said, perhaps to the scope or the image of the planet on it. "Oh, we will have some problems, no doubt." "I gather the idea is," Todd said, pointing his finger first at Cathcart, then Sherril, "we're going to be colonists. Pioneers, first settlers, people like that?" "Well, what do you think?" she said. "Maybe I'm the one who's being stupid just because he doesn't like the situation. Maybe we've got some other choice, a whole higgledepig of choices maybe." "There are people like that," Jane Shaw said. "Certainly used to be. People who got out away from the human race. We'll have to figure out their psychological set. See how doing that sort of thing can make sense." "Ha," said Ronaldson. Todd swung both hands wide, the motion skewing him to ihis left and floating him free of the wall. "I bet nobody has even considered whether it is possible to get down there -- to raise one more stupid objection before we go on with this foolishness." "The ship has an emergency landing unit," Cathcart said. "Why, God knows. Vestigial, maybe -- something regulations demanded a long time ago, and the shipbuilders never got around to asking if they could take it out." All of them except Cathcart looked again at the image of the planet, green and blue and white, with beige flecks around the equator and a crooked mountain range winding up shortly and then disappearing under the icecap. The shadowline began on the other side of the mountains. "So we are actually going down there to live," Todd said in a slow voice. "Tom are," Cathcart said. "Not me. I'm going there to die." Sheril then gave him her hand. "The rest of us aren'tT Ronaldson said, shrill, turning away from the scope. "You know better! All of you! There isn't a thing we can do down there except squat around a natural fire and wait to die. So what if it takes thirty years instead of three weeks That's some kind of advantage?" "Well, isn't even that better than going around the universe in a cake of ice?" Sherril said. Ronaldson showed teeth and made a noise something like a voiced hiss. "I wouldn't be sure," Todd added. "Besides, it's not as if we were so dependent on civilization. We're k. We carry a lot of it around in our heads, you know. Why can't we make things civilized down there?" "I'm a poet' Ronaldson told her. "Just what Godforsaken use do you think I am, to myself or anybody else, without a computer?" "People used to make up poems by themselves," Jane Shaw offered. "Without computers." "No question about it. I've seen poetry like that. Somebody made it up for himself, all right. You can tell." "There are other things," Sherril said. "I mean, later." "Not for me there aren't." "What I started to say, later on there'll be babies, you know. That'll be one of the consequences of doing without pills." "What are the pills all for, I wonder?" Todd flapped his hands loosely. "It can't very well be to keep me from having babies." "You mean -- have them ourselves?" said Jane Shaw and looked at her groin. "Inside us? That doesn't sound like a very good idea." "It's a perfectly feasible way," Sherril said. "That's sort of my field. I can assure you it works. Why not?" "And your children will have children," Caithcart said. "Also by themselves. And your children's children, and so on, and eventually when human beings get out to wherever we are, they'll find they're already here." "Perhaps we'll be rescued some day," Jane Shaw said. "Some of those children will be yours, too, you know," Sherril told Cathcart in a softer voice, tightening her grip on his hand. "No. I don't know that. There's nothing different about the shape of your stomach." "That takes time." Todd got a toe against the wall and pushed himself toward the scope. "We'll have to build things," he said, making square chops in the air with stiff straight hands. "Using natural materials. It will make for some interesting problems." "Impossible's the word," Ronaldson said. "Let's just agree to do what we can," Jane Shaw said. "We all know it's a horrible situation, but if we don't take a positive attitude about it, it will be impossible." "No," Cathcart told her. "I've done my share already, and my situation is impossible right now. I don't intend to do anything. Or to be agreeable either, for that matter." "You've aleardy done a miracle, haven't you?" Sherril said. "You got us a world to live on." IF "Yes," Todd said. "And there ought to be some use tor his body. To scare away animals, something. No, I feel we might as well be honest about it. You don't mind, do you, Lewis?" "As long as you wait," said Cathcart. "In about three weeks I expect not to mind. Just don't do anything with me or talk about it until then, okay?" Xut he died much sooner than that xy -- less than a day after the ship brought them down on to a long open slope, between dark green tangles of growth and a freeform lake with mountains on its far side. The others were fidgeting around in front of the ship -- or what was left of it, the core which had been constructed to pass through a planet's atmosphere -- wondering what to do, and Cathcart lay with his head and shoulders propped against a rock, perhaps fifteen meters away, over by a bend in the river that wound down to the lake, when something big came sprawling around the end of the ship. Then his shout got mixed with a scabrous body and flapping and a nasty smell, and the thing was going from them awkwardly, hopping and lurching and fluttering its bony wings. Ronaldson had taken two steps toward it, but now he came back and stood with them, combing back his hair with rigid fingers, close to the ship. The thing crouched on the lakeshore and ate Cathcart, twisting about a lot. It had a narrow bucktoothed head with lidless round eyes set at the sides and a long scaly ridged neck. Its wings were obviously too small to fly with and now, folded, they stuck out crisscross in pointed folds over its back. There was a thick moving tail, and as the beast crouched the hind legs hunched up fatly against its belly. Its forelegs were long and slender and ended in enormous three-fingered claws and these pushed Cathcart about frantically under the writhing of its head and neck. "A real monster, that," Ronaldson said. "What, do you suppose it's doing to him?" Sherril said eventually. "Spitting him out and washing him, I think," said Todd. "I gather it doesn't much like the taste." "Perhaps it'll leave the rest of us alone, then?" Still, they spent the rest of that day very close to the ship and went inside when the lake turned black. Next morning they found the monster dead, wings projecting straight up, almost at their door. Its eyes had turned an ugly yellow. Todd walked all the way around it and then said: "So he d do something else for us after all." "I should have thought of this," said Sherril. "Of course it hadn't a chance of digesting Lewis -- an alien lifeform. Too many differences in molecular structure." "But we've got to eat too," Jane Shaw said. "If this thing -- " "Yes, but you've got a Nagel stomach, you know," Sherril told her. "Digests practically anything. At least any carbon-based life. Which all this is." And she waved her hand about. "When did that happen?" Ronaldson said. "A stomach? I don't remember anybody doing that to me." "Had to. They wouldn't have let you off Earth otherwise. The differences in what you'd eat on Smith's World are probably as great as here. Greater maybe." "Let's not talk about Smith's World," Ronaldson said. "I'm trying to forget." T 'odd worked most of the morning at separating one of the wing bones from the corpse and failed. He had nothing to cut with except splinters of rock. Nothing in the ship was even like a tool, much less a weapon. There were no points and no sharp edges, and most things were molded into the walls. His idea had been to make a spear or a bow out of the bone -- a bow was a primitive machine, without brains, that could be used to project sharp sticks -- but rocks only scratched the small hard scales of the wing, and by midday he was breathing openmouthed and his fingers no longer held on to things, and he could do no more. "We'll have to do something else for protection," he said, staggering back into the ship. "Dig pits." "With your hands, I suppose," Sherril said, and he looked at wlt had happened to his palms and fingers. But that afternoon birds -- as Ronaldson, who was naming things, decided to call them in spite of their lack of feathers -- began to light on the body, longlegged metallic-green creatures with rounded heads that screwed into the folds of skin and jerked away. A standard week later the bones of the dragon were bare. B y then they were constructing a house. The ship had become unlivable the third day -- tiny crawling things had got inside and eaten boles in the refrigerator plates, and the ship's brains, including the doctor, died. The kitchen stopped preparing meals. Closed doors no longer opened. The air turned foul, and fluid of some sort began to collect in the room where Ronaldson and Jane Shaw were sleeping. So they had to move outside, and well away from the ship because of the stench of the dragon. They had almost a kilometer of flexible tubing, seventeen transparent bags, an empty brandy bottle, three spools of chartreuse tape with a black stripe along the top edge, the lens off a microfilm reader, thirtytwo boxes that wouldn't open and four legless chairs -- these things were what they could salvage from the ship. But they had nothing that could be used to cut down trees or dig holes in the ground. And in any case the ground was rocky. To make a reasonably deep hole in it they would have needed some sort of explosive; and the trees were made of layer after layer of rough fiber that would have spread and bent under the weight of a roof. So while Todd kept watch beside his pile of throwing-stones, the others gathered branches and underbrush for a geodesic. The most complicated problems with that sort of house were mathematical, and all of them still knew how to do elemenIF tary trig. It took just four days to lash together and cover a dome that measured roughly seven meters across -- big enough, everybody hoped, to keep out a second dragon. But the earleaf and mud did little to keep out the rain which began to fall that evening, and kept on late into the night. uTn the morning we must dig all A the way around and make a channel so some of the water will run off." Jane Shaw said suddenly in the dark. "Must we?" said Sherril. "I'm lying in a puddle too, at least most of me is. But it's a comfortable puddle. Warm and soothing. Why can't we just live with it?" "Don't count on its always being warm." "We've got tools now," Todd said. "I think maybe I can rig up some kind of spade from the vertebrae." "What's a spade?" asked Ronaldson. "It's a thing for digging with," Todd told him. "So we can do this all-day job of Jane's in maybe a couple of hours." "Maybe." "My hands won't close now," Sherril said. "They're getting thick on the inside and they always hurt. Couldn't we just rest for a while?" "Symptoms of the primitive life," Ronaldson said. "The hands, I mean. Hardly the resting." He gave a long noisy sigh. "I've had an idea," Todd said. "If we filled in the river -- that would just mean throwing in lots of rocks, it wouldn't be hard -- then I think the way the ground slopes, the water would have to go around on the other side of the ship. We would be here in the middle, on a sort of triangle of ground with water around and that might be good protection against dragons." "Hop right over," said Ronaldson. "Maybe there aren't any more dragons," Sherril said. Ronaldson splashed about, came back. "It might be stopping. Who knows?" "Watch out, you're trying to sit on me," Jane Shaw said. "What happens to where the river used to be?" Sherril asked. "When you fill it in? There won't be any water there, will there, Todd?" "I didn't think about that," he said finally. "Well, if we dig a channel and divert only part of the river, that ought to work." "I suppose that just means I've made an even bigger job out of it." "I'll bet there's a way to get food out of the river too, when we get to work on it. Sooner or later we're going to run out of animals that'll stand still while we throw rocks at them." "You know," she said, sitting up -- the water trickled off her louder, briefly, then the sound of rain outside -- "that's worth thinking about. There are bound to be things in the river. Environments fill up, and the more different stuff we eat the better." "We need to store a few things away too," Jane Shaw said. "Out in natural environments there are winters. The air gets cold, and it's supposed to be harder to find food." The rain paused, then scattered a long last gust and was gone, and they were left with the ticking of drops inside the dome. "We're getting an edge on things now," Ronaldson said. "If you don't think about how meaningless it all is. But we're alive. We've got shelter, sort of, and the dragon's going to make a fair supply of things to cut and dig with, spades, tools." "The things we've absolutely got to have," Todd said. "And we can even start thinking about the future. We're actually making it." "You know what made all the difference, don't you?" Sherril said. "It was the dragon's eating Lewis. We've got a lot to thank Lewis for." She lay back down, crooked her head over out of a puddle. "We ought to think about light and heat," said Jane Shaw. A nd then Jane Shaw was dead. She didn't get up in the morning, and Sherril called her twice and went over to shake her awake before noticing her eyes were open and their surfaces dry, faintly puckered. They stripped off the tattered freezer coverall, but there were no unexpected marks on her body. She was simply dead. Todd rolled her back over, and she lay with her eyes, if that was the thing to call them now, fixed on the center of the dome. "It's like suddenly finding a hole in the world," Ronaldson said. "As if it. wasn't real the way you'd always thought it was." Todd moved her jaw up and down slowly. "at are you doing, trying to make a poem out of it?" "But what happened to her?" Sherril said. "Surely people don't just die "Well, in a way I've been expecting something like this," said Todd. "I've thought about it a lot. Of course without a doctor we'll never know why Jane died, but it was almost predictable. How much stuff were you taking back on Earth, Dick? How many pills a week, for example?" "Seventeen, eighteen. I never knew what they were for." "Sherril?" "Three. You mean she had some organic defect, don't you? Her body couldn't assimilate something it needed or get rid of its own poisons without help? I suppose I ought to have thought of that." "I can't know, of course. But isn't it likely? Aren't there a lot of people like that? Obviously all the stuff I and everybody I ever knew took was supposed to do something. "It's because there are so many laws about modifying human embryos," Sherril said. "I've got -- I had friends who used to gripe about it. You couldn't always change something even if you knew it was wrong. Not that you can always detect things in the embryo, for that matter. I suppose most human beings have something seriously wrong with them -- but you can't discriminate against their genes, you know. That's illegal too. Of course it doesn't matter ordinarily." IF "So there's something wrong with us," Ronaldson said. "Only we don't know what Surprise! Maybe my head falls off." "I know one thing that's likely to be wrong," said Todd. "At least part of the stuff all of us took was an I.E. An intelligence enhancer. Human beings aren't naturally intelligent enough to deal with the kind of civilization they've got." "Naturally they're what you'd even call stupid, I suppose," Sherril said. "When did the I.E.'s come in? # ? # ?" "I don't remember exactly," Todd said. "But I do know before that the race was degenerating fast. I've taught history. In the countries that did any testing, England, America, there was a loss of as much as three I.Q. points a decade. Of course, I expect those weren't accurate tests." "And the stupid ones would be the ones who had children," Sherril said. "Maybe it isn't a very clever thing to do, either." "So really I may be feeble-minded," Ronaldson said, looking at Jane's eyes again. "I just hope it's nothing worse," Todd said, and pointed, waved his finger at the corpse. "She's dead." "Different chemicals stay in your body different lengths of time," Sherril said. "And we may have been taking pills for things that don't matter out here." B ut Todd and Ronaldson never did. That afternoon the second dragon came out of the forest and had them trapped down by the lake where they were taking Jane's head. wrapped in a net of plastic tubing, to see if it could be used to catch something worth eating. Sherril had just time to scream, and when they turned it was a hundred meters away, between them and the dome. Todd went into the lake. Then Sherril found she was still screaming and stopped. The dragon shrieked. Looking back then, she saw that Todd had got the net over its head. She crawled to the door but still couldn't see him. He was not turning toward her across the open, ' or crouched behind a rock. By late afternoon the dragon had writhed into deep enough water to drown. The next morning, when she could no longer stand to wait, she went down to the lake and found Todd where the dragon had rolled on him, smashed almost flat. Sherril lasted a long while. She moved back into the ship -- the smell had weakened, and in any case she wasn't bothered as much by smells now -- and started a garden of the more edible plants. She had with rocks, and by the first snow she had managed to fill the interior of the ship with rotting food. But by then she was very stupid, too, and one day she got caught at the end of a corridor and could not think to turn around, and so starved to death facing the closed door to the observatory. She was at that time about six standard months pregnant, and the male child inside her more or less well formed. If it had been born it might have IF  Serial The galaxy was immense. Trying to find one human in if was almost impossible -- but the human was the woman he loved! XI I t wasn't a luxury cruise. The man Ancu-Uriru had assigned to captain the tub -- In-Ruhic, by name -- believed in every man's working his way, in spite of the generous fare I'd paid. Even aboard as sophisticated a machine as a spaceship, there was plenty of coolie labor, as I well rememibered from my apprenticeship under Sir Orfeo. The standards he'd taught me carried over here. After my assigned chores were done I spent long hours chipping and scraping and cleaning and polishing, trying single-handed to dear away grime that had been accumulating since the days of the Vikings -- or longer. According to In-Ruhic the old ship had been built on a world Earth is my home. But I haven't seen it now since I was a schoolboy, and I don't know when I'll ever see it again. The people from space visit earth when they want to, and no one is ever the wiser. Maybe you've seen them yourself and never known. I was not that lucky. When I stumbled on a party of them, two men and a lovely young girl, they gave themselves away -- and so they took me with them when they left. So I stayed with them, pleasure-cruising across the galaxy hunting wild beast as their gun-bearer, until they met a beast more dangerous than themselves. died. The girl and I survived, until slavers came and took her from me. The next ship I saw took me -- pursuing those who had stolen the only thing in the universe I loved. called Urhaz, an unknown number of millenia ago. At first my wounds caused me a lot of pain, until In-Ruhic stopped me one day and told me my groans were interfering with his inward peace. He had me stretch out on a table while he rubbed some vilesmelling grease into the scars. "How you survived, untended, is a matter of wonder,", he said. "I think you lost a pound of flesh and bone here, where the pellet tore through your shoulder. And you've broken ribs, healed crookedly. And your throat! Man, under the web of scar-tissue, I can see the pulse in the great vein each time you lift your chinl" But his hands were truly as gentle as any girl's could have been. He gave me a treatment every day for a few weeks. The glop he used must have had some healing effect because the skin toughened up over the scars and the pain gradually faded. I told In-Ruhic and the others about the wasp-waisted ship and the armored midgets that had taken the Lady Raire; but they'd never seen or heard of their kind. They wagged their heads and grunted in vicarious admiration when I described her to them. "But these are matters best forgotten, Biridanju." That was as close as In-Ruhic seemed to be able to get to my name. "I've heard of the world called Zeridajh. Distant it is, and inhabited by men as rich as emperors. Doubtless these evildoers you tell of have long since sold her there for ransom. B y the time the world where Ancu-Uriru planned to drop me was visible in the view-screen on the bridge where I was pulling watches as a sort of assistant instrument reader, I was almost a full-fledged member of the crew. Just before we started our landing maneuvers, which were more complicated for an old tub like InRuhic's command than they had been for Lord Desory's ultramodern yacht, In-Ruhic took me aside and asked me what my plans were. "If there's a Zeridajhi embassy. I'll go there and tell them about the Lady Raire. Or maybe I can send some kind of message through. If not... well, ni figure out something." He shook his head and looked sad and wise. "You nurture a hopeless passion for this high-born lady," he stated. "Nothing like that," I cut him off short. "She was in my care. I'm responsible." He put a hand on my shoulder. "Biridanju, you've shown yourself Stay on with me. I offer you a regular berth aboard this vessel." "Thanks, In-Ruhic. But I have another job to do." "Think well, Biridanju. For a foreigner work is not easy to find. And to shore folk, who know not the cruel ways of space, your little decorations may prove unsightly, an added incubus." I put a hand up and felt the lumps and ridges along the side of my throat and jaw. "I know. It looks like hell. But I'm not asking for any beauty prizes. I'll pay my way." "I suppose you must make your try. But after, Biridanju, remember. We're based nearby and call here at Inciro ever and anon. I'll welcome you as shipmate whenever you're ready." W e landed a few hours later on a wind-swept ramp between a gray sea and a town growing on a hillside. Captain Ancu-Uriru was there ahead of us. He talked earnestly with In-Ruhic for a while, then invited me to his quarters aboard the yacht. There he sat me down and offered me a drink and a double-barreled cigar, rolled from two different weeds which, when combined, produced a smoke worse than any three nickel stogies. "Biridanju, I tell you freely, you've made me a rich man," he said. "I thought at first you were a shill who'd bring pirates down on me. Almost, I had you shot before you boarded." He made a face that might have been a smile. "Your cat saved you. It passed reason that a man with your wounds, and an animal lover, could be but a decoy for corsair. I ordered InRuhic to watch you closely, and for long I slept but little, watching these beautiful screens for signs of mischief. Now I know I did you an injury." "You saved my life," I said. "No apologies needed." He lifted a flat box from a drawer of the gorgeous inlaid desk. "I am a just man, Biridanju; or so I hope. I sold the special store aboard IF this cutter for a sum greater than any year's profit I've known since I first captained a trader. The proceeds are here, your fair share." I lifted the lid and looked at an array of little colored sticks an eighth of an inch square and an inch long. "There is enough there to keep you in comfort for many years," he said, "if you squander it not on follies, such as star-messages or passenger fares. Not that there's enough to take you far." He gave me a sharp look that meant InRuhic had told him my plans. I thanked him and assured him I'd make it go as far as I could. It took me ten minutes to collect my personal belongings from the ship and buckle Eureka into the harness I'd made for him. Then Ancu-Uriru took me through the port formalities, which weren't much for anyone with a bankroll, and found me an inn in the town. In-Ruhic joined us for a final drink in my room, and then they left, and I sat on the side of the plain little bunk in the plain little room in the yellow twilight and scratched Eureka behind the ears and felt the loneliness close in. T he town was named Inciro, like the planet. It was one of half a dozen ports that had been built ages past to handle the long vanished trade in minerals and hides and timber from the interior of the one big continent. The population added up to about ten thousand people, many of whom had six fingers on each hand for some reason. They were tall, darkeyed, pale-skinned, gloomy-looking, with a sort of Black Irish family resemblance, like Eskimos or Hottentots. I spent a few days wandering around the town, sampling the food in different chophouses and seafood dives -- they were all good -- and drinking a tasty red beer called izm. The mixed dialect I'd learned from In-Ruhic and his men was good enough to carry on a basic conversation. I soon learned there was no Zeridajhi embassy anywhere on the planet. The nearest thing to it was a consular agent representing the commercial interest of the half dozen worlds within five light-years of Inciro. I called on him. He was a fattish, hairy man in a stale-smelling office over a warehouse. He steepled his pudgy fingers and listened to what I had to say, then solemnly suggested I forget the whole thing. It seemed it was a big galaxy, and the things that had maimed me and stolen Milady Raire could be anywhere in it -- probably at the far side of it by now. No belligerent non-human had been seen in these parts for more centuries than I had years. He would have liked to have told me I'd imagined it all, but his eyes kept straying back to my scars. Eureka went with me on my walks, attracting quite a bit of attention at first. TTie Inctrinos had seen cats before, but none W size. He did more than keep me company. One evening a trio of loughnec with too many bowls of izm inside them came over to get a closer look at my scars, and he came to his feet from where he'd been curled up under the table and made a sound like tearing canvas and showed a mouthful of teeth, and they backed away fast. I found a little old man who hung around one of the bars who knew half a dozen useful dialects. For the price of enough drinks each evening to keep him in a talking mood, he gave me language lessons, plus the beginning of an education on the state of this end of the galaxy. He told me how the human race had developed a long time ago on a world near Galactic Center, had spread outwards in all directions for what must have been a couple of hundred thousand years, settled every habitable planet they found and built a giant empire that collapsed peacefully after a while of its own weight. That had been over twenty thousand years earlier; and since then the many separate tribes of man had gone their own ways. "Now, take you." He poked a skinny finger at me. "From a planet you call Eart'. Thought you were the only people in the Universe. But all you were was a passed-over colony, or maybe what was left of a party marooned by an accident; or a downed battleship. Or maybe you were a penal colony. Or perhaps a few people wandered out there, two thirds of the way to the rim, just wanting to be alone. A few thousand years pass, and -- there you are!" He looked triumphant, as if he'd just delivered a rigorous proof of the trisection of the angle. "But we've dug up bones," I told him. "Ape-men, and missing links. They show practically the whole chain of evolution, from animals to men. And we've got gorillas and chimps and monkeys that look too much like us to just be coincidence." "Who said anything about coincidence?" he came back. "Life adapts to conditions. Similar conditions, similar life. You ever look at the legs and feet on a pink-lizard? Swear they were human, except they're only so long. Look at flying creatures: birds, mammals,, reptiles, goranos or mikls. They all have wings, all flap 'em, all have hollow bones, use two legs for walking -- " "Even Eureka is related to humanity," I pressed on. "We have more similarities than we have differences. As embryos of a few weeks, you can't tell us apart." He nodded and grinned. "Uhhuh. And where'd you say you got him. Not on Eart'." It was like arguing religion. Talking about it just confirmed everyone in his original opinion. But the talking was good experience. By the time I'd been on Inciro for three months Earth time I was fluent in the lingua franca that the spacers used and had a pretty good working vocabulary in a couple of other dialects. And kept my Zeridajh sharpened up with long imaginary conversations with the Lady Raire, in which I explained over and over again how we should have greeted the midgets. I looked up a local surgeon who examined my wounds and clucked and, after a lot of lab studies and allergy tests, put me under an anesthetic and rebuilt my shoulder with metal and plastic to replace what was missing. When the synthetic skin had stitched itself in with the surrounding hide, he operated again, to straighten out my ribs. He wanted to reupholster the side of my neck and jaw next, but the synthetic hide was the same pale color as the locals; it wouldn't have improved my looks much. And by then, I was tired of the pain and boredom of plastic surgery. My arm worked all right now, and I could stand up straight again instead of cradling my smashed side. And it was time to move on. In-Ruhic's ship called about then, and I asked his advice. "I don't want to sign on for just a local run," I told him. "I want to work my way toward Zeridajh and ask questions along the way. Sooner or later I'll find a lead to the Midgets." "This is a long quest you set yourself, Biridanju," he said. "And a vain one." But he took me along to a local ship-owner and got me a place as an apprentice power-section trader on a freighter bound inward toward a world called Topaz. E ureka and I saw Topaz, and after that Greu and Poylon and Trie and Pandache's World and the Three Moons. Along the way, I learned the ins and outs of an ionpulse drive and a stressed-field generator; and I served my time in vac suits, working outside under the big black sky that wrapped all the way around and seemed to pull at me like a magnet that would suck me away into its deepest blackest depths, every hour I spent out on a hull. And I had my head pounded by a few forecastle strong-arm types, until an oak-tough old tubeman who'd almost been fleet champion once in his homeworld's navy showed me a few simple tricks to keep from winding up on the short end of every bout. His naethod was effective. He pounded me harder than the bully-boys until I got fast enough to bloody his nose one night, and graduated. I learned to pull duty three on, three off, to drink the concoctions that space-faring men seemed to always be able to produce no matter how far they were from the last port, and to play seventy-one different games with hundred-and-four card decks whose history was lost in antiquity. And at every world I asked and got the same answer. No such animals as the Midgets had been seen in five thousand years and probably not then. On a world called Unriss, in a library that was a museum relic itself, I found a picture of a Midget -- or a reasonable facsimile. I couldn't read the text, but the librarian could make out a little of the old language. It said the thing was called a Heeaq, that it was a denizen of a world of the same name, and that it was extinct. IF Where Heeaq was located, it neglected to say. My small bankroll, which would have kept me in modest circumstances on Enciro, didn't last long. I spent it carefully, item by item outfitted my ship chest, including a few luxuries like a dreamer and a supply of tapes, a good power gun and shore clothes. I studied astrogation and power section maintenance whenever I was able to get hold of a tape I hadn't seen before. By the time two years had passed, I had been promoted to power chief, second class, meaning I was qualified to act as standby chief on vessels big enough to have a standby complement. That was a big step forward -- like jumping from Chinese junks to tramp steamers. It meant I could ship on bigger, faster vessels, with longer range. I reached a world called Lhiza, after a six-month cruise on a converted battle cruiser, and spent three months on the beach there, spending my back pay on new training tapes and looking for a berth that would take me into the edge of the sector of the galaxy known as the Bar. It wasn't easy. Few of the older, slower hulls that worked the Eastern Arm had business there. But the Bar was where Zeridajh was, still thousands of light-years away, but getting closer. T 'he vessel I finally shipped on was a passenger liner, operating under a contract with the government of a world called Ahax, hauling immigrant labor. I didn't much like the idea; it was my first time nurse-maiding a ship-load of Flatlanders. But I was offered a slot as first powerman, and the tub was going on a long way, and in the right direction. So I signed on. She was an old ship, like most of the hulls operating in the Arm, but she had been a luxury job in her day. I had a suite to myself, with room for Eureka, so for the first time aboard ship the old cat got to sleep across my feet, the way he did ashore. The power section was a massive, old-fashioned stressed-field installation; but after the first few weeks of shakedown and impressing my ideas on my crew I had the engines running smoothly. Everything settled down then to the quiet, slightly dull, sometimes pleasant, always monotonous routine that all long cruises are. My first shift chief, Ommu, was a biguscled, square-faced fellow with the faint greenish cast to his skin that said he was from a high Cl world. He listened to my story of the Midgets and told me that once, many years before, he'd seen a similar ship, copper-colored. It had drifted into a commentary orbit around a world in the Guree system, in the Bar. She was a navigational hazard, and he'd been one of the crew assigned to rendezvous with her and set vapororizing charges. Against standing orders, he and another sapper had crawled in through a hole in her side to take a look around. The ship had been long dead, and there wasn't much left of the crew; but he had picked up a souvenir. He got it from his ship-chest and laid it on the mess table in front of me: It looked like a stack of demitasse cus dull silver, with a loop at the base and a short rod projecting from the open end. "Yeah," I said, and felt my scalp prickle, just looking at it. It wasn't identical with the guns that had shot me up, back on Gar #, but it was a close enough relative. I had him tell me all about the ship, everything he could remember. There wasn't much. We went up to the ship's psychologist and after a lot of persuasion and a bottle of crude stuff from the power section still, he agreed to run a recall on Ommu under hypnosis. I checked with the purser and located a xenologist among the passengers and got Mm to sit in on the session. In a light trance, Ommu relived the approach to the ship, described it in detail as he came up on it from sun-idc. We followed him inside, through the maze of compartments, we were with him as he stirred the remains of what must have been a Heeaq and turned up the gun. The therapist ran Mm back through it three times, and he and the xenologist took ttims firing questions at him. At the end of two hours, Ommu as soaking wet, and I had the spooky feeling I'd been aboard that derelict with him. T he xenologist wanted to go back to his quarters and pore over his findings, but I talked Mm into giving us a spot analysis of what he'd gotten. "The vessel itself appears a typical artifact of what we call the H'eeaq Group," he said. "They are an echinodermoid form, originating far out in fringe space, or, as some have theorized, representing an incursion from a neighboring stellar assemblage, presumably the Lesser Cloud. Their few fully documented contacts with Man, and with other advanced races of the galaxy, reveal a cultural pattern of marked schizoid-accretional character -- " "Maybe you could make that a little plainer," Ommu suggested. "These are traits reflecting a basic disintegration of the societal mechanism," he told us and elaborated on that for a while. The simplified explanation was as bad as the regular one, as far as my vocabulary was concerned. I told him so. "Look here," he snapped. He was a peppery little man. "You're asking me to extrapolate from very scanty data, to place my professional reputation in jeopardy -- " "NotMng like that, sir," I soothed him. "I'd just like to have a little edge the next time I meet those types." "Ummm. There's their basic insecurity, of course. I'd judge their home world has been cataclysmically destroyed, probably the bulk of their race along with it. What this might do to a species with a strong racial-survival drive is anyone's guess. If I were you, I'd look for a complex phobia system. Fear of heights or enclosed spaces, assorted fetish symbologies. And of course, the bully syndrome. Convince them you're stronger, and IF they're your slaves. Weaker, and they destroy you." That was all I got from him. Ommu gave me the teacup gun. I disassembled it and examined its workings, but it didn't tell me much. The routine closed in again then. I fine-tuned the generators and put the crew on polishing until the section gleamed from one end to the other. I won some money playing tikal, lost is again at revo. And then one off-shift I was shocked up out of a deep sleep to find myself lying on the floor, with Eureka yowling over me and every alarm bell on the ship screaming disaster. B y the time I reached the power section, the buffeting was so bad that I had to grab a rail to stay on my feet. "I've tried to get through to command for orders," Ommu yelled over the racket, "but no contact!" I tried the inter-deck screen, raised a young plotman with blood on his face who told me the whole forward end of the ship had been carried away by a collision, with what he didn't know. That was all he told me before the screen blanked in the middle of a word. A new shock knocked both of us down. The deck heaved up under us and kept going, right on up and over. "She's tumbling," I yelled to Ommu. "She'll break up fast under this! Order the men to lifeboat stations!" A tubeman named Rusi showed up then, pale as chalk, hugging internal injuries. I gave him a hand, and we crawled on floors, walls and ceilings, made it to our boat station. The bay door was blown wide, and the boat was hanging in its davits with the stem torn out and there were pieces of a dead man scattered around. I ordered the men up to the next station and started to help my walking wounded, but he was already dead. The upper bay was chaos. I grabbed a gun from a lanky grandpa who was waving it and yelling and fired over the crowd. Nobody noticed. Ommu joined me, and with a few crewmen we formed up a flying wedge. Ommu got the hatch open while the rest of us beat back the mob. All this time. Eureka had stayed close to me, with his ears flattened and his tail twitching. "Take 'em in order," I told Ommu. "Anybody tries to walk over somebody else. I'll shoot him!" Two seconds later I had to make that good when a beefy two hundred pounder charged me. I blew a hole through him, and the rest of them scattered back. The boat had been designed for fifty passengers; we had eightyseven aboard when a wall of fire came rolling down the corridor and Ommu grabbed me just in time and hauled me in across the laps of a fat woman and a middle-aged man who was crying, and Eureka bounded in past me. I got forward and threw in the big red lever and a big boot kicked us and then there was the sick, null-G feel that meant we'd cleared the launch tube and were on our own. I n the #-by-# command compartment, I watched the small screen where five miles away the ship was rotating slowly, end-over-end, with debris trailing off from her in a lazy spiral. Flashes of light sparkled at points along the hull where smashed piping was spewing explosive mixtures. Her back was broken and the aft third of the ship separated and a cloud of tiny objects, some of them human, scattered out into the void, exploding as they hit vacuum. The center section blew then. When the smoke cleared there was nothing left but a major fragment of the stern, glowing redhot, and an expanding dust-cloud. "Any other boats get away?" I asked. "I didn't see any, Billy." "There were five thousand people aboard that scowl We can't be the only survivors!" I yelled at him, as if convincing him would make it true. A powerman named Lath stuck his head in. "We've got some casualties back here," he said. "Where in the Nine Hells are we, anyway?" I checked the chart screen. The nearest world was a planet named Cyoc, blue-coded, which meant uninhabited and uninhabitable. "Nothing there but a beacon," Ommu said. "An ice world." We checked; found nothing within a year's range that was any better -- or as good. "Cyoc it is," I said. "Now let's take a look at what we've got to work with." I led the way down the no-G central tube past the passenger cells that were arranged radially around it, like the kernels on a com cob. They were badly overcrowded. There seemed to be a lot of women and children. Maybe the mob had demonstrated some of the chivalric instincts, after all; or maybe Ommu had done some selecting I didn't notice. I wasn't sure he'd done the right thing. A big man, wearing what had been expensive clothes before the mob got them, pushed out in the aisle up ahead of me, waited for me to come to him. "I'm Till Ognath, member of the Ahacian Assembly," he stated. "As highest ranking individual aboard. I'm assuming command. I see you're Crew. I want you men to run a scan of the nearby volume of space and give me a choice of five possible destinations within our cruise capability. Then -- " "This is Chief Danger, Power Section." Ommu butted into his spiel. "He's ranking Crew." Assemblyman Ognath looked me over. "Better give me the gun. He held out a broad, well-tended hand. "I'll keep it," I said. "I'll be glad to have your help, Assemblyman." "Maybe I didn't make myself clear," Ognath showed me a wellbred frown. "As a member of the World Assembly of Ahax, I -- " "Ranking crew member assumes command. Assemblyman," Ommu cut him off. "Better crawl back in your hole. Mister, before you qualify yourself for proceedings under space law." IF "You'd quote law to me, you -- " Ognaths vocabulary failed him. "I'll let you know how you can best be of service, Assemblyman," I told him, and we moved on and left him still looking for a suitable word. T he boat was in good shape, fully equipped and supplied -- for fifty people, all of who-m were presumed to have had plenty of time to pack and file aboard like ladies and gentlemen. Assemblyman Ognath made a formal complaint about the presence of an animal aboard, but he was howled down. Everybody seemed to think a mascot was lucky. Anyway, Eureka ate very little and took up no useful space. Two of the injured died the first day, three more in the next week. We put them out the lock and closed ranks. There wasn't much room for modesty aboard, for those with strong feelings about such matters. One man objected to another's watching his wife taking a sponge bath -- (ten other people were watching, too; they had no choice in the matter, unless they screwed their eyes shut) and knocked his front teeth out with a belt buckle. Two days later, the jealous one turned up drifting in the no-G tube with his windpipe crushed. Nobody seemed to miss him much, not even the wife. Two hundred and sixty-nine hours after we'd kicked free of the foundering ship, we were maneuvering for an approach to Cyoc. From five hundred miles up, it looked like one huge snowball. It was my first try at landing an atmosphere boat. I'd run through plenty of drills, but the real thing was a little different. Even with fully automated controls that only needed a decision made for them here and there along the way, there were still plenty of things to do wrong. I did them all. After four hours of the roughest ride this side of a flatwheeled freight car, we slammed hard in a mountain-rimmed icefield something over four hundred miles from the beacon station. T he rough landing had bloodied few noses, one of them mine, broken an arm or two, and opened a ten-foot seam in the hull that let in a blast of refrigerated air. But that was incidental. The real damage was to the equipment compartment forward. The power plant had been knocked right through the side of the boat. That meant no heat, no light and no communications. Assemblyman Ognath told me what he thought of my piloting ability. I felt pretty bad until Ommu got him to admit he knew even less about atmosphere flying that I did. The outside temperature was ten below freezing; that made it a warm day, for Cyoc. The sun was small and a long way off, glaring in a dark, metallic sky. It shed a sort of gray, before-the-storm light over a hummocky spread of glacier that ended at blue peaks, miles away. Assemblyman Ognath told me that now that we were on terra firma he was taJdng charge, and that he would waste no time taking steps for rescue. He didn't say what steps. I told him rd retain command as long as the emergency lasted. He fumed and used some strong language, but I was still wearing the gun. There were a lot of complaints from the passengers about the cold, the short rations, the recycled water, bruises and other things. They'd been all right in space, glad to be alive. Now that they were ashore they seemed to expect instant relief. I called some of the men aside for a conference. "I'm taking a party to make the march to the beacon," I told them. "Party?" Ognath bellied up to me. "We'll all go! Only by pulling together can we hope to survive!" "I'm taking ten men," I said. "The rest stay here." "You expect us to huddle here in this wreck and slowly freeze to death?" Ognath wanted to know. "Not you. Assemblyman," I said. "You're coming with me." He didn't like that, either. He said his place was with the people. "I want the strongest, best-fed men," I said. "We'll be traveling with heavy packs at first. I can't have stragglers." "Why not just yourself, and this fellow?" Ognath jerked a thumb at Ommu. "We're taking half the food with us. Somebody has to carry it." "Half the food -- for ten men? And you'd leave seventy-odd women and children to share what's left?" "That's right. We'll leave now. There's still a few hours of daylight." Half an hour later we were ready to go, the cat included. The cold didn't seem to bother him. The packs were too big by half, but they'd get lighter. "Where's your pack. Danger?" Ognath wanted to know. "I'm not carrying one," I told him. I left the boat in charge of a crewman with a sprained wrist. When I looked back at the end of an hour all I could see was ice. W e made fifteen miles before sunset. When we camped, several of the men complained about the short rations, and a couple mentioned the food I gave Eureka. Ognath made another try to gather support for himself as trail boss, but without much luck. We turned in and slept for five hours. It wasn't daylight yet when I rolled them out. One man complained that his suit pack was down; he was shivering, and blue around the lips. I sent him back and distributed his pack among the others. We went on, into rougher country, sprinkled with rock slabs that pushed up through the ice. The ground was rising, and footing was treacherous. When I called the noon halt, we had made another tea miles. "At this rate, we'll cover the distance in ten days," Ognath informed me. "The rations could be doubled easily. We're carrying enough for forty days!" IF He had some support on that point. I said no. After a silent meal and a ten-minute rest, we went on. I watched the men. Ognath was a complainer, but he held his position up front. Two men had a tendency to straggle. One of them seemed to be having trouble with his pack. I checked on him, found he had a bad bruise on his shoulder from a fall during the landing. I chewed him out and sent him back to the boat. "If anybody else is endangering this party by being noble, speak up now,' I told them. Nobody did. We went on, down to eight men already, and only twenty-four hours out. The climbing was stiff for the rest of the day. Night caught us halfway to a high pass. Everybody was dog-tired. Ommu came over and told me the packs were too heavy. "They'll get lighter," I told him. "Maybe if you carried one you'd see it my way," he came back. "Maybe that's why I'm not carrying one." We spent a bad night in the ice of an ice-ridge. I ordered all suits set for minimum heat to conserve power. At dawn we had to dig ourselves out of drifted snow. We made the pass by mid-afternoon, and were into a second line of hills by dark. Up until then, everyone had been getting by on his initial charge; now the strain was starting to show. When morning came, two men had trouble getting started. After the first hour, one of them passed out cold. I left him and the other fellow with a pack between them, to make it back to the boat. By dark, we'd put seventyfive miles behind us. I began to lose track of days then. One man slipped on a tricky climb around a crevasse, and we lost him, pack and all. That left five of us: myself, Ommu, Ognath, a passenger named Choom and Lath, one of my Power Section Crew. Their faces were hollow, and when they pulled their masks off their eyes looked like wild animals; but we'd weeded out the weak ones now. At a noonday break, Ognath watched me passing out the ration cans. "I thought so!" His fruity baritone was just a croak now. "Do you see what he's doing?" He turned to the others, who had sprawled on their backs as usual as soon as I called the halt. "No wonder Danger's got more energy than the rest of us! He's giving himself double rations -- for himself and the animal!" They all sat up and stared my way. "How about it?" Ommu asked. "Is he right?" "Never mind me," I told them. "Just eat and get what rest you can. We've still got nearly three hundred miles to go." Ommu got to his feet. "Time you doubled up on rations for all of us," he said. The other two men were sitting and watching. "I'll decide when it's time," I told him. "Ognath, open a pack and hand out an extra ration all around," Ommu said. 'Touch a pack and I'll kill you," I said. "Lie down and get your rest, Onunu." They stood there and looked at me. "Better be careful how you sleep from now on, Danger," Ommu said. Nobody said anything while we finished eating and shouldered packs and started on. I marched at the rear now, watching them. I couldn't afford to let them fail. The Lady Raire was counting on me. XV A t halfway point, I was still feeling fairly strong. Ognath and Choom had teamed up to help each other over the rough spots, and Ommu and Lath stuck together. None of them said anything to me unless they had to. Eureka had taken to ranging far offside, looking for game, maybe. Each day's march was like the one before. We got on our feet at daylight, wolfed down the ration and hit the trail. Our best speed was about two miles per hour now. The scenery never changed. When I estimated we'd done two hundred and fifty miles -- about the fifteenth day -- I increased the ration. We made better time that day, and the next. Then the pace began to drag again. The next day there were a lot of falls. It wasn't just rougher ground; the men were reaching the end of their strength. We halted in mid-afternoon, and I told them to turn their suit heaters up to medium range. I saw Ognath and Choom swap looks. I went over to the Assemblymian and checked his suit; it was on full high. So was Choom's. "Don't blame them. Danger," Ommu said. "On short rations they were freezing to death." The next day Choom's heat-pack went out. He kept up for an hour; then he fell and couldn't get up. I checked his feet; they were frozen waxy-white, ice-hard, halfway to the knee. We set up a tent for him, left fourteen-days' rations, and went on. Assemblyman Ognath told me this would be one of the items I'd answer for at my trial. "Not unless we reach the beacon," I reminded him. Two days later, Ognath jumped me when he thought I was asleep. He didn't know I had scattered ice chips off my boots around me as a precaution. I woke up just in time to roll out of his way. He rounded and came for me again, and Eureka knocked him down and stood over him, snarling in a way to chill your blood. Lath and Ommu heard him yell and I had to hold the gun on them to get them calmed down. "Rations," Ognath said. "Divide them up now; four even shares I" I turned him down. Ommu told me what he'd do to me as soon as he caught me without the gun. kill the cat, now that it had gone mad and was attacking people. I let them talk. When they had it out of IF their systems, we went on. That afternoon Ommu fell and couldn't get up. I took his pack and told Lath to help him. An hour later Lath was down. I called a halt, issued a triple ration all around and made up what was left of the supplies into two packs. Ognath complained, but he took one and I took the other. The next day was a hard one. We were into broken ground again, and Ognath was having trouble with his load, even though it was a lot lighter than the one he'd started with. Ommu and Lath took turns helping each other up. Sometimes it was hard to tell which one was helping which. We made eight miles and pitched camp. The next day we did six miles; the next five; the day after that, Ognath fell and sprained an ankle an hour after we'd started. By then we had covered three hundred and sixty miles. "We'll make camp here," I said. "Ommu and Lath, lend a hand." I used the filament gun on a narrow beam to cut half a dozen footcube blocks of snow. When I told Ommu to start stacking them in a circle, he just looked at me. "He's gone crazy," he said. "Listen, Lath; you too, Ognath. We've got to rush him. He can't kill all. three of us -- " "We're going to build a shelter," I told him. "You'll stay warm there until I get back." "What are you talking about?" Lath was hobbling around offside, trying to get behind me. I waved him back. "This is the end of the line for you. Ognath can't go anywhere; you two might make another few miles, but the three of you together will have a better chance." "Where do you think you're going?" Ognath got himself up on one elbow to call out. "Are you abandoning us now?" "He planned it this way all along," Lath whispered. His voice had gone a couple of days before. "Made us pack his food for him, used us as draft animals; and now that we're used up, he'll leave us here to die." Ommu was the only one who didn't spend the next ten minutes swearing at me. He flopped down on the snow and watched me range the snow blocks in a ten-foot circle. I cut and carried up more and built the second course. When I had the third row in place, he got up and silently started chinking the gaps with snow. It took two hours to finish the igloo, including a six-foot entrance tunnel and a sanitary trench a few feet away. "We'll freeze inside that," Ognath was almost blubbering now. "When our suit-packs go, we'll freeze!" I opened the packs and stacked part of the food, made up one light pack. "Look," Ognath was staring at the small heap of ration cans. "He's leaving us with nothing! We'll starve, while he stuffs his stomach!" "If you starve you won't freeze," I said. "Better get him inside," I told Ommu and Lath. "He won't be stuffing his stomach much," Ommu said. "He's leaving us twice wihat he's taking for himself." "But -- where's all the food he's been hoarding?" "We've been eating it for the past week," Ommu said. "Shut up, Ognath. You talk too much."" I put Ognath in the igloo. It was already warmer inside, from the yellowish light flickering through the snow walls. I left them then and, Eureka pacing beside me, started off toward what I hoped was the beacon. M y pack weighed about ten pounds; I had food enough for three-days' half rations. I was still in reasonable shape, reasonably well fed. With luck, I expected to make the beacon in a two-day march. I didn't have luck. I made ten miles before dark, slept cold and hungry, put in a full second day. By sundown I had covered the forty miles, but all I could see was flat plain and glare ice, all the way to the horizon. According to the chart, the beacon was built on a hundredfoot knoll that would be visible for at least twenty miles. That meant one more day, minimum. I did the day, and another day. I rechecked my log, and edited all the figures downward; and I still should have been in sight of home base by now. That night Eureka disappeared. The next day my legs started to go. I finished the last of my food and threw away the pack. I had a suspicion my suit heaters were about no finished; and now I shivered all the time. Late that day I saw Eureka, far away, crossing a slight ripyple in the flat ice. Maybe he was on the trail of something to eat. I wished him luck. I had a bad fall near sunset and had a hard time crawling into the lee of a rock to sleep. The next day things got rough. I knew I was within a few miles of the beacon, but my suit instruments weren't good enough to pinpoint it. Any direction was as good as another. I walked east, toward the dull glare of the sun behind low clouds. When I couldn't walk any more I crawled. After a while I couldn't crawl any more. I heard a buzzing from my suit pack that meant the charge was almost exhausted. It didn't seem important. I didn't hurt any more, wasn't hungry or even a hit tired. It felt good, just floating where I was, in a warm, golden sea. Golden, the color of the Lady Raire's skin when she lay under the hot sun of Gar #, slim and tawny... Lady Raire, a prisoner, waiting for me to come for her. I was on my feet, weaving, but upright. I picked out a rock ahead, and concentrated on reaching it. I made it and fell down and saw my own footprints there. That seemed funny. When I finished laughing, it was dark. I was cold now. I heard voices... The voices were louder, and then there was light and a man was standing over me and Eureka was sitting on his haunches beside me, washing his face. IF Q mimu imd Ognath were all right; Lath had left the igloo and never came back; Choom was dead of gangrene. Of the four men I had sent back to the boat during the first few days, three reached it. All of the party at the boat survived. We later learned that our boat was the only one that got away from the ship. We never learned what it was we had collided with. I was back on my feet in a day or two. The men at the beacon station were glad to have an interruption in their routine; they gave us the best of everything the station had to offer. A couple of days later a ship arrived to take us off. At Ahax, I went before a board of inquiry and answered a lot of questions, most of which seemed to be designed to get me to confess that it had all been my fault. But in the end they gave me a clean bill and a trip bonus for my trouble. Assemblyman Ognath was waiting when I left the hearing room. "I understand the board dismissed you with a modest bonus and a hint that the less you said of the disaster the better," he said. "That's about it." "Danger, I've always considered myself to be a man of character," he told me. "At Cyoc, I was in error. I owe you something. What are your plans?" He gave me a sharp look when I told him. "I assume there's a story behind that -- but I won't piy." "No secret, Mr. Assemblyman." I told him the story over dinner at an eating place that almost made up for thirty days on the ice. When I finished he shook his head. "Danger, do you have any idea how long it will take you to work your passage to as distant a world as Zeridajh?" "A long time." "Longer than you're likely to live, at the wages you're earning." "Maybe." "Danger, as a politician I'm a practical man. I have no patience with romantic quests. However, you saved my life; I have a debt to discharge. I'm in a position to offer you the captaincy of your own vessel, to undertake a mission of considerable difficulty -- but one which, if you're successful, will pay you more than you could earn in twenty years below decks!" T he details were explained to me that night at a meeting in a plush suite on the top floor of a building that must have been two hundred stories high. From the terrace where I was invited to take a chair with four well tailored and manicured gentlemen, the city lights spread out for fifty miles. Assemblyman Ognath wasn't there. One of the men did most of the talking while the other three listened. 'The task we wish you to undertake," he said in a husky whisper, "requires a man of sound judgment and intrepid character; a man without family ties or previous conflicting loyalties. I am assured you possess those qualities. The assignment also demands great determination, quick wits and high integrity. If you succeed, the rewards will be gpreat. If you fail, you can expect a painful death, and we can do nothing to help you." A silent-footed girl appeared with a tray of glasses. I took one and listened. "Ahacian commercial interests have suffered badly during recent decades from the peculiarly insidious competition of a non-human race known as the Rish. The pattern of their activities has been such as to give rise to the conviction that more than mere mercantile ambitions are at work. We have, however, been singularly unsuccessful in our efforts to place observers among them." "In other words, your spies haven't had any luck." "None." "What makes this time different?" "You will enter Rish-controUed space openly, attended by adequate public notice. Your movements as a lone Ahacian vessel in alien-controlled space will be followed with interest by the popular screen. The Rish can hardly maintain their pretense of cordiality if they offer you open interference. Your visit to the capital, Hi-Iliat, will appear no more than a casual commercial visit." "I don't know anything about espionage," I said. "What would I do when I got there -- if I got there?" "Nothing. Your crew of four will consist of trained specialists." "Why do you need me?" "Precisely because you are not a specialist. Your training has been other than academic. You have faced disaster in space, and survived. Perhaps you will survive among the Rish. It sounded simple enough. I'd be gone a year; when I got back, a small fortune would be waiting for me. The amount they mentioned made my head swim. Ognath had been wrong. It wasn't twenty-years' earnings; it was forty. "I'll te it," I said. "But I think you're wasting your money." "We pay you nothing unless you return," the spokesman said. "In which case the outlay will not have been wasted." T he vessel they showed me in a maintenance dock at the port was a space-scarred, five-thousand tonner, built twelve hundred years ago and used hard ever since. If the Rish had any agents snooping around her for hidden armor, multilight communications gear or superdrive auxiliaries, they didn't find them. There weren't any. Just the ancient stressed-field generators, standard navigation gear, a hold full of pre-coded computer tapes for light manufacturing operations. My crew of four were an unlikelylooking set of secret agents. Two were ohinless lads with expressions of goggleed innocence; one was a middle-aged man who gave the impression of having run away from a fat wife; and the last was a tall, big-handed, silent fellow with moist blue eyes. I spent two weeks absorbing cephalotapes designed to fill in the gaps in my education. We lifted off beJF fore dawn one chilly morning, th no more fanfare than any other tramp steamer leawng harbor. I left Eureka behind with one of the tech girls from the Training Center. Maybe that was a clue to the confidence I was beginning to have in the mission. For the first few weeks, I enjoyed captaining my own ship, even as ancient a scow as Jongo. My crew stared solemnly when I suited up and painted the letters on her prow myself. To them, the idea of anthropomorphizing an artifact with a pet name was really pretty weird. We made our first planetfall without incident. I contacted the importers ashore, quoted prices, bought replacement cargo in accordance with instructions, while my four happygo-lucky men saw the town. I didn't ask them what they'd found out; as far as I was concerned, the less I knew about their activities the better. We went on, calling at small, unpopulous worlds, working our way deeper into the bar, then angling toward galactic south, swinging out into less densely populated space, where Center was a blazing arch in the screens. We'd seen, by afternoon, Ostrok and twenty other worlds, as alike as small towns in mid-western United States. And then one day we arrived at a planet which looked no different than the rest of space, but was the target we'd ibeen feeling our way toward for five months; The Rish capital, and the place where, if I made one tiny mistake, I'd leave my bones. T he port of Hi-Iliat was a booming, bustling center where great shining hulls from all the great worlds of the Bar, and even a few from Center itself, stood ranged on the miles-wide ramps system, as proud and aloof as carved Assyrian kings. We rode a rampcar in from the remote boondocks where we'd been parked by traffic control to a mile-wide rotunda constructed of high arched ribs of white concrete with translucent filigree-work between them. I was so busy staring up at it that I didn't see the Rish official until one of my men prodded me. I turned and was looking at a leathery five-foot oyster all ready for a walk on the beach, spiniy legs and all. He was making thin buzzes and clicks that seemed to come from a locket hanging oa the front side of him. It dawned on me then that it was speaking a dialect I could understand: "All right, chaps, just in from out-system, eh? Mind stepping this way? A few formalities, won't take a skwrth I didn't know how long a skwrth was, but I followed him, and my four beauties followed me. He led us into a room that was like a high, narrow corridor, too brightly lit for comfort, already crowded with men and Rish and three or four other varieties of life, none of which I had ever seen before. We sat on small stools as directed and put our hands into slots and had lights flashed in our eyes and sharp tones beeped at our ears. Whatever the test was, we must have passed, because our guide led us out into a ceilingless circular passage like a cattle run and addressed us: "Now, chaps, as guests of the Rish Hierarchy, you're welcome to our great city and to our fair world. You'll find hostelries catering to your metabolic requirements, and if at any time you are in need of assistance, you need merely repair to the nearest sanctuary station, marked by the white pole, and you will be helped. And I must also solemnly caution you: Any act unfriendly to the Rish Hierarchy will be dealt with instantly and with the full rigor of the law. I trust you'll have a pleasant stay. Mind the step, now. He pushed a hidden control and a panel slid back and he waved us through into the concourse. An hour later, after an ion-bath and a drink at the hotel bar, I set out to take a look at Hi-Iliat. It was a beautiful town, full of blinding white pavement, sheer towers, tiled plazas with hundred-foot fountains and schools and shoals of Rish, zooming along on tiny onewheeled motorbikes. There were a few men in sight, and an equal number of aliens. The locals paid no attention to them, except to ping their bikebells at them when they stepped out in front of them. I foimd a park where orange grass as soft as velvet grew under trees with polished silver trunks and golden yellow leaves. There were odd little butterfly-like birds there, and small leathery animals the size of squirrels. Beyond it was a lake, with pretty little buildings standing up on stilts above the water; I could hear twittery music coming from somewhere. I sat on a bench and watched the big, pale sun setting across the lake. It seemed that maybe the life of a spy wasn't so b after all. It was twilight when I started back to the hotel. I was halfway there when four Rish on greenpainted scooters surrounded me. One of them was wearing a voice box. "Captain Billy Danger," he said in a squeak like a bat. "You are under arrest for crimes against the peace and order of the Hierarch of Rish." T he prison they took me to was of partitions, blind alleys, cubicles, passages, tiny rooms where inscrutable oyster-faces stared at me while carrying on inaudible conversations that made my ear drums itch. I asked questions, but got no answers. For all I know it was the same oyster I talked to each time; it might even have been the same office. I got very hungry and thirsty and sleepy, but nobody got out any rubber hoses. I could have done worse in any small town in Mississippi. After about an hour of these silent examinations, I wound up in a room the size of a phone booth with a Rishian wearing a talk-box. He told me his name was Humekoy and that he was Chief of Physical Interrogation and Punishment. I got the impression the two duties were hard to tell apart. IF "You are in a most serious position," he told me in his mechanically translated squeak. "The Rish Hierarchy has no mercy for strangers seeking to do evil. However, I am aware that you yourself have merely been used -- possibly even without your knowledge -- as an agency for transporting criminals. By cooperating with me fully, you may save yourself from the more unpleasant consequences of your actions. Accordingly, you will now give me full particulars of the activities of your associates." "I want to see the Ahacian consul," I said. "Don't waste my time," he shrilled. "What were the specific missions of the four agents who accompanied you here?" "If my crew are under arrest, I want to see them." "You have an imperfect grasp of the situation. Captain Danger! It is  who make the demands!" "I'm afraid I can't help you." "Nonsense, I know you Men too well. Each of you would sell his own kind to save his person." 'Then why are you afraid to let me see the consul?" "Afraid?" he made a sound which was probably a laugh, but it lost something in translation. "Very well, then. I grant your plea." They took me to a bigger room with softer light and left me, and a minute later an egg-bald man in dandified clothes came in, looking worried and mad. A see me," he said and handed me a gadget and looped a similar one around his neck, with attachment to the left ear and the Adam's apple. I followed suit. "Look here. Danger," his voice peeped in my ear. "There's nothing I can do for you! You knew that when you came here. Insistence on seeing me serves merely to implicate Ahax." "Who are you kidding?" I subvocalized. "They know all about the mission. Something leaked. That wasn't part of the deal." "That's neither here nor there. Your duty now is to avoid any appearance that yours is an official mission." "You think they're dumb enough to believe I'm in the spy business for myself?" "See here. Danger, don't meddle in affairs that are beyond your grasp! You were selected for this eracy in matters of policy." "Let's quit kidding," I said. "Why do you think they let you see me Let me? They practically kidnapped me." "Sure; this is a test. They want to see what you'll do. Species loyalty is a big thing with them -- I learned that much studying tapes, back on Ahax. Every time they capture and execute a Man with no reaction from his home world, they get a little bolder." "This is nonsense, a desperate bid for rescue -- " "You made a mistake seeing me, Mr. Consul. You can't pretend you don't know me, now. Better get me IF T# out of this. If you don't I'll spill the beans." "What's that?" He looked shocked. "What can you tell them? You know nothing of the actual -- " He cut himself off. "I can tell them all about you, for a starter," I told him. "Tell them what about me?" "That you're the mastermind of the Ahacian espionage ring here on the Rish World," I said. "And anything else I can think of. Some of it might even be true." He got his back stiffened up and gave me the old iceblue glare. "You'd play the traitor of the Ahacian Assembly, which trusted you?" "You bureaucrats have a curious confidence in the power of one-way loyalty. You'd sell me down the river just to maintain a polite diplomatic lie; and you expect me to go, singing glad hosannahs." He struggled some more, but I had him hooked in the eye. In the end he said he'd see what he could do and went away mopping his forehead. The oysters hustled me into an elevator and took me down into what must have been a sub-subbasement and made me crawl through a four-foot tunnel into a dim-lit room with a strange, unpleasant smell. I was still sniffing and trying to remember what it was about the odor that made my scalp crawl when something moved in the deep gloom of the far corner and an armored, four-foot midget rose up on a set of thick legs and two oversized eyes stared at me from the middle of its chest. F or the first five seconds I stood where I was, feeling the sheck reaction slamming through my brain. Then, without any conscious decision on my part, I was diving for it. It tried to scuttle aside, but I landed on it, grabbed for what passed for its throat. Its body arced imder me, and the stubby legs beat against the floor, and it broke free and went for the exit tunnel, 'maiking a sound like water gurgling down a drain. I kicked it away from the opening, and it curled up and rolled to a neutral corner and I stood over it breathing hard and looking for a soft spot to attack. "Peace!" The words sounded grotesque coming from what looked like an oversized armadillo. "I yield, master! Have mercy on poor Srat!" Then it made sounds that were exactly like an Australian bush-baby -- or a crying child. "That's right," I said, and my voice had a high, quavering note. I could feel the gooseflesh on my arms, just from being close to the thing. "I'm not ready to kill you yet. First you're going to tell me things!" "Yes, Master! Poor Srat will tell Master everything he knows! All, all!" "There was a ship -- wasp-waisted, copper-colored, big. It answered our distress call. Bugs like you came out of it. They sihot me up, but I guess they didn't know much human anatomy. And they took the Lady Raire. Where did they take her? Where is she? What did they do to her?" "Master, let poor Srat think!" it gurgled, and I realized I'd been kicking it with every question mark. "Don't think -- just give me the answers." I drew a deep breath and felt liie rage draining away, and my hands started to shake from the reaction. "Master, poor Srat doesn't understand about the lady -- " It oofed in anticipation when I took a step toward it. 'The ship, yes," it babbled. "Long ago poor Srat remembers such a ship, all in the beauty of its migity form, like a great Mother. But that was long, long ago I" "Three years," I said. "On a world out in the Arm." "No, Master! Forty years have passed away since last poor Srat glimpsed the great mother-shape! And that was deep in Fringe Space -- It stopped suddenly, as if it had said too much, and I kicked it again. # # poor Srat is in exile," it JL whined. "So far, so far from the heaving oil-black bosom of the deeps of H'eeaq." "Is that where they took her. To H'eeaq?" It groaned. "Weep for great H'eeaq, Master. Weep for poor Srat's memories of that which was once, and can never be again..." I listened to the blubbering and groaning and piece by piece, got the story from it: H'eeaq, a lone world, a hundred lights out toward Galactic Zenith, where Center spread over the sky like a blazing roof; the discovery that the sun was on the verge of a nova explosion; the flight into space, the years -- centuries of gypsy-wandering. And a landing on a Rish-controlled world, a small brush with the Rish law -- and forty years of slavery. By the time it was finished, I was sitting on the bench by the wall, feeling cold, washed out of all emotion, for the first time in three years. Kicking this poor waif wouldn't bring the Lady Raire back home. That left me with nothing at all. "And Master?" poor Srat whimpered. "Has Master, too, aroused the cruel ire of these Others?" "Yeah, I guess you could say that. They're using me for a test case." I cut myself off. I wasn't ready to start gossiping with the thing. "Master -- poor Srat can tell Master many things about these Rishes. Things that will help him." "It's a little late for that," I said. "I've already had my say. Humekoy wasn't impressed." The H'eeaq crept closer to me. "No, Master, listen to poor Srat. Of mercy, the Rish-things know nothing. But in matters of business ethic..." I was asleep when they came for me. Four guards with symbols painted on their backs herded me along to a circular room where a lone Rish who might have been Humekoy sat behind a desk under a spotlight. Other Rish came in, took seats along the walls behind me. My buddy the Ahacian consul was nowhere in sight. "What will you offer for your freedom?" the presiding Rish asked. IF I stood there temembering what Poor Srat had told me aibout the Rish and wondering whether to believe him. "Nothing," I said. "You offer nothing for your life?" "It's already mine. If you kill me you'll be stealing." "And if we imprison you?" "Stealing is stealing. My life is mine, not yours." I felt the silent buzzing that meant they were talking it over. Then Humekoy picked up two rods, a white one and a red one, from the desk. He held the white one out to me. "You will depart the Rish world at once," he said. "Take this symbol of Rish magnanimity and go." I shook my head, and felt the sweat start up. "I'll take my life and freedom because it's mine, not as a gift. I don't want any gifts from you; no gifts at all." "You refuse the mercy of the Hierarch?" Humekoy 's canned voice went up off the scale. "All I want is what's mine." More silent conversation. Humekoy put the rods back on the desk. "Then go. Captain Danger. You have your freedom." "What about my crew?" "They are guilty. They will pay their debt." "They're no good to you. I suppose you've already pumped them dry. Why not let them go?" "Ah, you crave a gift after all?" "No. I'll pay for them." "So? What payment do you offer?" Poor Srat had briefed me on this, too. I knew what I had to do, but my mouth felt dry and my stomach was quivering. We bargained foe ten minutes before we agreed on a price. My right eye. T hey were skillful surgeons. They took the eye out without anesthetic, other than a stiff drink of what tasted like refrigerant fluid. Humekoy stood by and watched with every indication of deep interest. As for me, I had already learned about pain: the body is capable of registering only a certain amount of it; about what you'd get from laying your palm on a hot-plate. After that, it's all the same. I yelled and screamed a little, and kicked around a bit, but it was ever very quickly. They packed the empty socket with something cold and wet that numbed it in a few seconds. In half an hour I was back on my feet, feeling dizzy and with a sort of gauzy veil between my remaining eye and the world. They took me to the port, and my crew was there ahead of me, handcuffed and looking pale green around the ears. And the consul was there too, with his hands clamped up as tight as the rest. "It has been a fair exchange, Captain Danger," Humekoy told me after the others were aboard. "These paid cheats have garnered their petty harvest of data on industrial and port facilities, volume of shipping and sophistication of equipment, on which to base estimates of Rish assault capability. And in return the Hierarch has gained valuable infomnation for proper assessment of you humans. Had we acted on the basis of impressions gained by study of the persons so cleverly trained to delude us heretofore, we might have made a serious blunder." We parted on that note, not as pals, exactly, but with what might be described as a mutual wary respect. At the last minute a ramp car pulled up and a pair of Rish guards dumped Poor Srat out. "The creature aided, indirectly, in our rapprochement," Humekoy said. "His payment is his freedom. Perhaps you, too, may have an account to settle." "Put him aboard," I said. "He and I will have a lot of things to cilk over before I get back to Ahax." B y the time the fifty-seven day voyage was over, I knew as much about H'eeaq as Poor Srat could tell me. "Why these mistaken kin of mine may have stolen a lady of Master's kind, I can't say," he insisted. But as to where -- he had a few ideas on that. 'There are worlds. Master, where long ago H'eeaq established markets for the complex molecules so abundantly available to her in those days. Our vessels call there still, and out of regard for past ties perhaps, the in-dwellers supply our needs for stores. And in return, we give them what we can." He gave me the details of a few of these old market places -- worlds far out in Fringe Space, where few questions were asked and a human was a rare freak. "We'll go take a look," Iaid. "As soon as I collect my payV' At Ahax, Traffic Control alloted me a slot at the remotest corner of the port. We docked, and my four cheery crewmen were gone in a rampcar before I finished securing the command deck. I told Srat to follow me and started to walk the two miles to the nearest power way. A rampcar went past in a hurry in the next lane over, headed out toward where my tub was parked. I thought about hailing it, but even with the chill wind blowing, walking felt good, after the weeks in space. Inside the long terminal building, a P.A. voice was droning something. Srat made a gobbling noise and, said, "Master, they speak of you!" I looked where he pointed with one flipper and saw my face looking down from a public screen. "... distinguishing scar on the right side of the neck and jaw," the voice was saying. "It is the duty of any person seeing this man to detain him and' notify Central Authority at once!" N obody seemed to be looking my way. I was wearing a plain gray shipsuit and a light windbreaker with the collar turned up far enough to cover the scar; I didn't look much different than a lot of other space-burned crew types. Poor Srat was crouching and quivering. They hadn't put him on the air, IF but he would attract attention with his whimipering. We had to get to cover, fast. I turned and headed for the nearest ramp exit and as I reached the vestibule a woman's voice called my name. I spun and saw a familiar face; Nacy, the little tech operator I'd left Eureka with. "I was in Ops Three when your clearance request came, four hours ago," she said in a fast whisper. She saw the patch over my eye and her voice faltered and went on: I thought... after all, no one expected you to come back... it would be nice to come down and meet you. Then... I heard the announcement..." "What's it all about, Nacy?" She shook her head. She was a pert little girl with a turned-up nose and very white, even teeth. "I don't know, Billy. Someone said you'd gone against your orders, turned back early." "Yeah. There's something in that. But you don't want to be seen talking to me." "Billy -- maybe if you went to them voluntarily..." "I have a funny feeling near the back of my neck that says that would be a wrong play." Her face looked tight; she nodded. "I think I understand." She took a bite of her lip. "Come with me." She turned and started across the lobby. Srat plucked at my sleeve. "You'll do better on your own," I said, and followed her. She led me through a door marked for private use, along a plain corridor with lots of doors, out through a small personnel entry onto a parking lot full of ramp vehicles. "Good thing, girl," I said. "You'd better fade out fast now -- " "Just a minute." She ducked back inside. I went to a small mail-carrier, found the controls unlocked. I started it up and back around by the door as it swung open and a sleek pepper-and-salt-and-tan animal stalked through, looking relaxed, as always. "Eureka!" I called, and the old boy stopped and looked my way, then reached the car in one bound and was in beside me. I looked up and Nacy was watching from the door. "Thanks for everything," I said. "I don't know why you took the chance, but thanks." "Maybe it's because you're what's known as a romantic figure," she said and whirled and was gone before I could ask her what that meant. I pulled the car out and into a lane, across the ramp, keeping it at an easy speed. There was a small click from over my head, and a voice said, "#S#, where do you think you're going?" "Fuel check," I mumbled. "Little late, aren't you? You heard the clear-ramp order." "Yeah, what's it all about?" "Pickup order out on some smuggler that gave Control the slip a few minutes ago. Now get off the rampl" He clicked off. I angled right as if I were headed for the maintenance bay at the end of the line, but at the last second I veered left and headed out toward where I'd parked Jongo. I could see rampcars buzzing back and forth, off to my left; I passed two uniformed men, on foot. One of them stared at me, and I kept my chin down in my collar and waved to him. A hundred yards from the tub, I saw the cordon of cars around it. So much for' my chances of a slick takeoff uiKier their noses. I pulled the car offside between a massive freighter that looked as if it hadn't been moved for a couple of hundred years, and a racy yacht that reminded me of Lord Desroy's, and tried to make my brain think. It didn't seem to want to. My eyes kept wandering back to the fancy eoamel-inlaid trim around the entry lock of the yacht. The port was open, and I could see the gleam of hand-rubbed finishes inside... I was out of the car and across to the yacht before I realized I'd made a decision. Eureka went in ahead of me, as if he owned the boat. Just as I got a foot on the carpeted four-step ladder, one of the pedestrian cops came into sight around the side of the old freighter. He saw me and broke into a run, fumbling with a holster at his side in a way that said he had orders to shoot. I unfroze and started up, knowing I wouldn't make it, and heard a scuffling sound and a heavy thud and a crash of fire that cracked and scorched the inlay by the door. I looked back, and he was spread out on the pavement, out cold, and Poor Srat was untangling himself from his legs. He scrambled in behind me, and I tripped the port-secure lever and ran for the flight deck. I slammed the main drive lever to full emergency liftoff position and felt my back teeth shake as the yacht screamed off the ramp, splitting the atmosphere of Ahax like a meterite. T be ship handled like a yachtsman's dream. For the first few hours I ducked and bobbed in an evasion pattern that took us out through the planetary patrols. I kept the com channels open and listened to a lot of excited talk that told me I'd picked the personal transportation of an Ahacian official whose title translated roughly as Assistant Dictator. After a while Assemblyman Ognath came on, looking very red around the ears, and showed me a big, phony smile. "Captain Danger, there's been a misunderstanding," he warbled. "The police officers you may have seen at the port were merely a guard of honor." "Somebody forgot to tell the gunhandlers about that," I said in a breezy tone that I thought would have the maximum irritant value. "I had an idea maybe you fellows decided forty years pay was too much to spend, after all. But that's okay. I'll accept this bucket as payment in full." "Look here. Danger." Ognath let the paper smile drop. "Bring the vessel back, and I'll employ my influence to see that you're dealt with leniently." IF "ITianks; I've had a sample of your influence. I don't think I'd live through another." "You're a fool I Every civilized vorld within ten  parsecs will be alerted; you'll be hunted down and blasted without mercy -- unless you turn back now!" "I guess the previous owner is after somebody's scalp, eh, Ognath? Too bad." I gave him, and a couple of naval types who followed him, some more funny answers and in the process managed to get a fair idea of the interference I could expect to run into. I had to dodge three patrols in the first twenty hours; by the thirtieth hour I was running directly toward Galactic Zenith with nothing ahead but the Big Black. "Give me the coordinates of the nearest of the worlds where you H'eeaq used to trade," I ordered Srat. "It is distant. Master. So far away, so lonely. The world called Drope." "We'll try it anyway," I said. "Maybe somewhere out there we'll run into a little luck." The yacht was fueled and supplied in a way that suggested that someone had been prepared for any sudden changes in the political climate back home. It carried food, wines, a library that was all the most self-indulgent dictator could want to while away those long, dull days in space. I showed Srat how to handle the controls so that he could relieve me whenever I felt like taking a long nap or sampling the library. I asked him why he had stuck with me, but he just looked at me with those goggle-eyes, and for the first time in many weeks it struck me what a strange-looking thing he was. You can get used to anything, even a H'eeaq. E ureka was better company than the alien, in spite of not being able to talk. He settled in, in a cabin full of frills that conjured up pictures of a dance-hall floozie with the brain of a Pekinese and a voice to match. Fortunately, the dictator's taste in music and books was closer to mine than his choice of mistresses. There were tapes aboard on everything from ancient human history to the latest techniques in cellsurgery, thoroughly indexed. I sampled them all. The Fringe Worlds, I learned, were the museum of the galaxy. These lonely planets had once, long eons ago, been members of the tightly packed community of Center; their races had been the first in the young galaxy to explore out through the Bar and Eastern Arm, where their remote descendants still thrived. Now the ancient Motherworlds lingered on, living out the twilight of their long careers, circling dying suns, far out in the cool galaxies. One of those old races, emptiness of the space between Srat assured me, was the ancestral form of Man -- not that I'd recognize the relationship if I encountered a representative of the tribe. One day I ran through a gazeteer of the Western Arm, found a listing of an obscure sun I was pretty sure was Sol and coded its reference into the index. The documentary that came onto the view-screen showed me a dull-steel ball bearing with a track said was the system's tenth planet. Number nine looked about the same only bigger. Eight and seven were big fuzz-balls flattened at the poles. I had just about decided I had the wrong star when Saturn swam into view. The sight of that old familiar ring made me feel homesick, as if I'd spent the long happy hours of childhood there. I recognized Big Jupe, too. The camera came in close on this one, and then there were surface scenes on the moons. They looked just like Luna. Mars was a little different than the pictures I remembered seeing; the ice caps were bigger, and in the close scan the camera moved in on what looked like the ruins of a camp; not a city, just a lash-up collection of metal huts and fallen antennas, like a South Pole expedition might have left behind. And then I was looking at Earth, swimming there on the screen, cool and misty green and upside down, with Europe at the bottom and Africa at the top. I stared at it for half a minute before I noticed that the ice caps were wrong. The northern one covered most of Germany and the British Isles, and as the camera swung past, I could see that it spread down across North America as far as Kansas. And there wasn't any south polar cap. Antarctica was a crescent-shaped island, all by itself in the ocean, ice-free; and Australia was connected to Indochma. I knew then the pictures had been made a long time ago. The camera moved in close, and I saw oceans and jungles, deserts and ice-fields, but nowhere any sign of man. The apparent altitude at the closest approach was at least ten thousand feet, but . even from that height I could make out herds of game. But whether they were mammoths and megatheria or something even older, I couldn't tell. Then the scene shifted to Venus, which looked like Neptune, only smaller and brighter, and I switched the viewer off and made myself a long, strong drink and settled down for the long run ahead. D rope was a lone world, circling a tired old star the color of sunset in Nevada. No hostile interceptors rose to meet me, but there was no welcoming committee either. We grounded at what Srat said was a port, but all I saw was a windblown wasteland with a few hillocks around it, under a purplish black sky without a star in sight. Center being below the horizon. The air was cold, and the wind seemed to be whispering sad stories in the dusk. I went back aboard; I dined well and drank a bottle of old Abadan wine and listened to music, but it seemed to be telling sad stories, too. Just before dawn Srat came back with a report that a H'eeaq ship had called -- about a century ago. Earth time. IF "That doesn't help us much," I pointed out. "At least -- " Poor Srat got down and wriggled in the dust, but I sensed a certain insolence in his voice " -- at least Master knows now I speak truly of the voyages of the H'eeaq." "Either that or you're a consistent liar," I said, and stopped. My tone of voice when I talked to the Midget reminded me of something, but I couldn't say what it was. Srat's informant had mentioned the name of H'eeaq vessel's next port of call. A world known as E'el, ten lights farther out into intragalactic space, which meant a two-weeks' run. I set ship-time up on a cycle as close to Earth time as I could estimate, and for a while I tried to sleep eight hours at a stretch, eat three meals a day, and maintain some pretense of night and day; but the habit of nearly six years in space was too strong. I soon reverted to three on, three off, with meals every other off period. We picked up E'el on our screens at last, a small, dim star not even shown on the standard charts. I set the yacht down on a grassy plain near a town made of little mudcolored domes and went into the village with Srat. There was nothing there but dust and heat and a few shy natives who scuttled inside their huts as we passed. An hour of that was enough. After that we called at a world that Srat called Zlinn, where a swarm of little atmosphere fliers about as sturdy as Spade came up and buzzed us like irate hornets. They refused us permission to disembark. If any H'eeaq vessel had been there in the last few decades, it was their secret. We visited Lii, a swamp-world where vast batteries of floodlights burned all day under a dying sun, and Shoramnath, where everyone had died since Srat's last visit. We walked around among the bones and the rusted machines and the fallen-in buildings and wondered what had hit them. And we saw Far, and Z'reeth, and on Kish they let us land and then attacked us, just a few seconds prematurely, so that we made it back to the lock and lifted off in the middle of a barrage of HE fire that burned some of the shine off the hull. Suicide fliers threw themselves at us as we streaked for space; they must have been tough organisms, because some of them survived tb.e collisions and clung to the hull, and I heard them yammering and rat-tat tating there for minutes after v. c had left the last of the atmosphere behind. On Tith, there were fallen towers that bad once been two miles high, lying in rows pointing north, like a forest felled by a meteor strike. We talked to the descendants of the tower builders, and they told me that a H'eeaq ship had called; a year ago, a century ago, a thousand years -- it was all the same to them. W e pushed on, hearing rumors, legends, hints that a vessel like the one I described had been seen once, long ago, or had visited the next world out-system, or that creatures like Srat had been found, dead, on an abandoned moon. Then even the rumors ran out; and Srat was fresh out of worlds. "The trail's cold," I told him. 'There's nothing out here but death and decay and legends. I'm turning back for Center." "Only a little farther. Master," Poor Srat pleaded. "Master will find what he seeks, if only he presses on." He didn't have quite the whimpering tone now that he used to use. I wondered about Poor Srat; what he had up his sleeve. "One more try," I said. "Then I turn back and try for Center, even if every post office this side of Earth has my picture in it." But the next sun that swam into range was one of a small cluster; eight small, long-lived suns, well past Sol on the evolutionary scale, but still in their prime. Srat almost tied himself into a knot. "Well do I remember the Eight Suns, Master! These are rich worlds, and generous. After we filled our holds here with succulent lichens -- " "I don't want any succulent lichens." I cut off his rhapsody. "All I want is a hot line on a H'eeaq ship." I picked the nearest of the suns, swung in on a navigation beam from Drath, the ninth planet, with Srat doing the talking to Control, and sat the ship down on a ramp that looked as though it had survived some heavy bombardments in its day. A driverless flatcar riding on an airstream came out to pick us up. We rode it in toward a big pinkish-gray structure across the field. Beyond it, a walled city sprawled up across a range of rounded hills. The sky was a prestorm black, but the sun's heat baked down through the haze like a smelter. There were rank, tropical trees and fleshy-looking flowers growing along the drive that ran the final hundred yards. Up close, I could see cracks in the building. There were no immigration formalities to clear through, just a swarm of heavy-bodied, rob humanoids with skin like hard olivegreen plastic and oversized faces -- if you can call something that looks like a tangle of fish guts a face. Eureka stayed close to my side, rubbing against my leg as we pushed through the crowd inside the big arrival shed. Srat followed, making the oofling sounds that meant he didn't like it here. I told him to find someone he could talk to and try for some information; he picked a non-Drathian, a frail little knob-kneed creature creeping along by a wall with the fringe of its dark blue cloak dragging in the mud. It directed him along to a stall at the far side of the lobby which turned out to be a sort of combination labor exchange and lost and found. A three hundred pound Drathian in a dirty saffron toga listened to Srat, then rumbled an answer. To vessel of H'eeaq has called here, says he. Master," Srat IF reported. "Drath trades with no world. The produce of Drath is the most magnificent in the Universe; he demands why anyone would seek items made elsewhere. He says also that he can offer an attractive price on a thousand tons of glath." "What's glath?" "Mud, Master," he translated. "Tell him thanks, but I've sworn off." We left him and pushed on through to take a look at the town. The buildings were high, blankfronted, stuccoed in drab shades of ochre and pink and mauve. There was an eerie feeling hanging over the place, as if everyone was away, attending a funeral. The click and clatter and pat-pat of our assorted styles of feet was jarringly loud. A hot rain started up, to add to the cheer. It struck me again how alike cities were, on worlds all across the galaxy. Where creatures gather together to build dwellings the system of arranging them in rows along open streets was almost universal. This one was like a Mexican village, with water; all poverty and mud. I saw nothing that would pass for a policeman, an information office, a city hall or government house. After an hour of walking I was wet to the skin, cold to the bone and depressed to the soul. I was ready to' give it up and head back to the ship when the street widened out into a plaza crowded with stalls and carts under tattered awnings of various shades of gray. Compared to the empty streets, the place looked almost gay. The nearest stall displayed an assortment of dull-colored balls, ranging from lemon to grapefruit size. Srat tried to find out what they were, but the answer was untranslatable. Another bin was filled with what seemed to be dead beetles. I gathered they were edible, if you liked that sort of thing. The next displayed baubles and gimcracks made of polished metal and stone, like jewelry in every time and clime. Most of the metal was dull yellow, lead-heavy gold, and I felt a faint stir of an impulse to fill my pockets. Up ahead, an enterprising merchant had draped the front of his stall with scraps of cloth. From the colors, I judged he was color-blind, at least in what I thought of as the visible spectrum. One piece of rag caught my eye; it was a soft, silvery gray. I fingered it, and felt a shock go through me as if I'd grabbed a hot wire. But it wasn't electricity that made my muscles go rigid; it was the unmistakable feel of Zeridajhan cloth. It was a piece about two feet long and a foot wide, raggedly cut. It might have been the back panel from a ship suit. I started to lift it, and the stall-keeper grabbed for it and cracked something in the local language, a sound like hot fat sizzling. I didn't let go. 'Tell him I want to buy it," I told Srat. The stall-keeper tugged and made more hot fat sounds. "Master, he doesn't understand the trade tongue," Srat said. The merchant was getting excited, now. He made an angry buzzing and yanked hard; I zipped the doth out of his balled fists; then Srat was clutching at my arm and saying, "Beware, Master!" XX I looked around. A large Drathianan who could have been the same one who offered me the load of glath except for the white serapi across his chitinous shoulder was pushing through the gathering crowd toward me. Something about him didn't look friendly. As he came up, he crackled at the merchant. The merchant crackled back. The big Drathian planted himself in front of me and spit words at me. "Master," Srat gobbled, "the Rule-keeper demands to know why you seek to rob the merchant!" 'Tell him I'll pay well for the cloth." I took out a green trade chip that was worth six-months' pay back on the Bar Worlds and handed it over, but the Rule-keeper still didn't seem satisfied. "Find out where he got the cloth, Srat," I said. There was more talk then. I couldn't tell whether the big Drathian was a policeman, a guild official, a racket boss or an ambulance-chasing shyster, but he seemed to pull a lot of weight. The stall-keeper was scared to death of him. "Master, the merchant swears he came by the rag honestly; yet if Master insists, he will make him a gift of it." "I'm not accusing him of anything. I just want to know where the cloth came from." This time the bully-boy did the talking, ended by pointing across the plaza. "Master, a slave sold the cloth to the merchant." "What kind of slave?" "Master... a man-slave." "Like me?" "He says -- yes, Master." I let my elbow touch the butt of my filament pistol. If the crowd that had gathered around to watch and listen decided to turn nasty, it wouldn't help much; but it was comforting anyway. "Where did he see this manslave?" "Here, Master. The slave is the property of Least Triarch." "Find out where the Triarch lives." "There, Master." Srat pointed to a dusty blue facade rising behind the other buildings like a distant cliff-face. "That is the palace of His Least Greatness." "Let's go." I started past the Rule-keeper, and he jabbered at Srat. "Master, he says you have forgotten his bribe." "My mistake." I handed over another clip. "Tell him I'd like his assistance in getting an interview with the Triarch." A price was agreed on, and he led the way across the plaza and through the network of dark streets, along a complicated route that ended in a tiled courtyard with a yellow glass roof that made it look almost like a sunny day. There were trees and flowedng shrubs around a reflecting pool, a shady cloister along , the far side. Srat was IF nervous; he perched on a chair and mewed to himself. Eureka stretched out and stared across at a tall bluelegged bird wading in the pool. A small Drathian came over and took orders. He asked Eureka three times what he'd have; he couldn't seem to get the idea that the old cat didn't speak the language. The drinks he brought were a thick, blue syrup with a taste of sulphur and honey. Srat sniffed his cup and said, "Master must not drink this," and proceeded to swallow his share in one gulp. I stared into the shadows under the arcade where my guide had disappeared and pretended to nibble the drink. Rain drummed on the glass overhead. It was steamy hot, like a greenhouse. After half an hour, the Drathian came back with a friend. The newcomer was six feet tall, five feet wide, draped in dark blue velvet and hung with ribbons and tassels and fringes like a Victorian bonnet. He was introduced as Hruba. He was the Triarch's majordomo, and he spoke very bad, but understandable Lingua. "You may crave one boon of his Greatness," he stated. "In return, he will accept a gift." "I understand the Triarch owns a human slave," I said. "I'd like to see him, if his Greatness has no objection." The majordomo agreed and gave orders to a servant; in ten minutes the servant was back, prodding a man along ahead of him. He was a stocky, strong-looking fellow with close-cropped black hair, well-cut features, dressed in a plain dark blue kilt. There was an ugly, two-inch scar on his left side, just below the ribs. He saw me and stopped dead and his face worked. "You're a human being!" he gasped -- in Zeradajhi. H is name was Huvile, and he had been a prisoner for ten years. He'd been captured, he said, when his personal boat had developed drive-control troubles and had carried him off course into Fringe Space. "In the name of humanity. Milord," he begged. "Buy my freedom." He looked as if he wanted to kneel, but the big Drathian servant was holding his arm in a two-handed grip. "I'll do what I can," I said. "Save me, Milord -- and you'll never regret it I My family is wealthy." That was as far as he got before Hruba waved an arm and the servant hustled him away. I looked at the majordomo. "How much?" "He is yours." I expressed gratification and offered money in return. Hruba indicated that Bar money was hard to spend on Drath. I ran through a list of items from Jongo II's wellstocked larders and storage hold; we finally agreed on a mixed consignment of drugs, wines, clothing and sense tapes. His Greatness will be gratified," Hruba said expansively, "at this opportunity to display his graciousness." He aimed a sense-organ at me. "Ah... you wouldn't by chance wish to accept a second slave?" "Another man?" "As it happens." "How many more humans have you got?" "His Greatness owns many properties; but only the two humans." His voice got almost confidential. "Useful, of course, but a trifle, ah intractable. But you'll have no trouble on that score I'm sure." We dickered for ten minutes and settled on a deal that would leave Jongo II's larder practically stripped. It was lucky the Triarch didn't own three men; I couldn't have afforded any more. "I will send porters and a car to fetch these trifles from your vessel," Hruba said, "which his Greatness accepts out of sentiment. You wish the slaves delivered there?" "Never mind; I'll take them myself." I started to get up. Hruba made a shocked noise. "You would omit the ceremonies of Agreement, of Honorable Dealing, of Mutual Satisfaction?" I calmed him down, and he sent his staff scurrying for the necessary celebratory paraphernalia. "Srat, you go to the ship, hand over the goods we agreed on, and see that the men get aboard all right. Take Eureka with you." "Master, Poor Srat is afraid to go alone -- and he fears for Master -- " "Better get going or they'll be there ahead of you." He made a sad sound and hurried away. "Your other slave," the majordomo pointed. Across the court, a Drathian servant came out from a side entry leading a slim figure in a gray kilt like Huvile had worn. "You said another man," I said stupidly. "Eh? You doubt it is a man?" he said in a stiff voice. "It is not often that the probity of His Least Greatness is impunged in his own Place of Harmonious Accord!" "My apologies." ! tried to recover. "It was just a matter of terminology. I didn't expect to see a female." "Very well, a female man -- but still a man and a sturdy worker," the majordomo came back. "Not so large as the other, perhaps, but diligent, diligent. Still, his Greatness would not have you feel cheated..." His voice faded off. He was watching me as I watched the servant leading the girl past, some twenty feet away. She had a scar on her side, exactly like Huvile's. Beside the horny, graygreen thorax of the Drathian beside her, her human breast looked incredibly vulnerable. Then she turned her head my way, and I saw that it was the Lady Raire. F or a long, echoing instant, time stood still. Then she was past. She hadn't seen me, sitting in the deep shade of the canopy. I heard myself make some kind of sound and realized I had half risen from my chair. "This slave is of some particular interest for you?" the majordomo inIF quired, and I could tell from the edge on his voice that his commercial instinct was telling him he had missed a het somewhere. I sat down. "No," I managed to croak. "I was wondering about the scars." "Have no fear. The cicatrice merely marks the point where the control drive is imbedded. However, perhaps I shoujd withdraw His Greataess's offer of this gift, since it is less than you expected, lest the generosity of the Triarch suffer reflection." "My mistake," I said. "I'm perfectly satisfied." I could feel my heart slamming inside my chest. I felt as though the universe was balanced on a knife-edge. One wrong word from me and the whole fragile deal would collapse. The liquor pots arrived then, and conversation was suspended while my host made a big thing of tasting half a dozen varieties of syrupy booze and organizing the arrangement of outsize drinking pots on the taible. I sat tight and sweated bullets and wondered how it was going back at the ship. The Drathian offered the local equivalent of a toast. While my host sucked his cup dry, I pretended to take a sip, but he noticed and writhed his face at me. "You do not sip! Is your zeal for Honorable Dealing less than complete?" This time I had to drink. The stuff had a sweet overflavor, but left an aftertaste of iron filings. I forced it down. After that, there was another toast. He watched to be sure I drank it. I tried not to think about what the stuff was doing to my stomach. I fixed my thoughts on a face I had just seen, looking no older than the day I had seen it last, nearly four years before; and the smooth, sun-tanned skin, and the hideous scar that marred it. There was a lot of chanting and exchanging of cups, and I chewed another drink. Srat would be showing Milady Raire to a cabin now, and she'd be feeling the softness of a human-style 'bed, a rug under her bare feet, the tingle of the ionbath for the first time in four years... "Another toast!" Hruba called. His command of Lingua was sliping; the booze was having a powerful effect on him. It was working on me, too. My head was buzzing and there was a frying-egg feeling in my stomach. A said, and felt my tongue slur the words. It was hard to push the chair back and stand. Hruba rose, too. He was swaying slightly -- or maybe it was just my vision. "I confess surprise, man," he said. "Your zeal in the pledging of honor exceeded even my own. My brain swims in a sea of consecrated wine!" He turned to a servant standing by and accepted a small box from him. "The control device governing your new acquisition," he said and handed the box over to me. I took it, and my finger touched a hidden latch and the lid valved open. IF There was a small plastic ovoid inside, bedded in floss. "What's... what's this?" "Ah, you are unfamiliar with our Drathian devices!" He plucked the egg from its niche and waved it under my nose. "This gnurled wheel. On the first setting, it administers a sharp reminder; at the second position -- " He pushed the control until it clicked -- "an attack of angina which doubles the object in torment. And at the third... but I must not demonstrate the third setting, eh? Or you will find yourself with a dead slave on your hands, his heart burned to charcoal by a magnesium element buried in the organ itself!" He tossed the control back into the box and sat down heavily. "That pertaining to the female is in possession of her tender; he will leave it in the hands of your servant. You'll have no trouble with 'em." He made a sound that resembled a hiccup. I tilted the box and dumped the ovoid on the ground and stamped on it; it crunched like a blown egg. Hruba came out of his chair in a rush. "Here -- what are you do ing!" He stared at the smashed controller, then at me. "Have you lost your mind, Man?" "I'm going now," I said, and went past him toward the passage I had entered by a long time ago, it seemed. Behind me, Hruba was shouting in the local dialect. Out on the street, night had fallen, and the wet pavement glimmered under the yellow-green glare of lanterns set on the building fronts. I felt deathly ill. The street seemed to be rising up under my feet. I staggered, stayed on my feet by holding onto the wall. A pain like a knifethrust stabbed into my stomach. I headed off in the direction of the port, made half a black before I had to lean against the wall and retch. When I straightened there were half a dozen Drathians standing by. I passed the plaza where I had found the Zeridajhi cloth, recognized the street along which Srat and Eureka and I had come. It seemed to be a steep hill, now. My legs felt like soft tallow: I fell and got up and fell again. I retched until my stomach was a dry knot of pain. It was harder getting to my feet this time. My lungs were on fire. T hen I saw the port ahead, the translucent, glowing dome rising at the end of the narrow alleyway. Not much farther, now. Srat would be wondering what happened; maybe he would be waiting, just ahead. And at the ship, the Lady Raire... I was lying on my face, and the sky was spinning slowly over me, a pitch-black canopy with the great dim blur of Center sprawled across it, and the faint avenue that was the Bar reaching out to trail off into the dwindling spiral curve of the Eastern Arm. I found the pavement under me, and pushed against it, and got to my knees; then to my feet. I could see the ship across the ramp, tall and rakish, her 'high polish dimmed by the years of hard use, her station lights glaring amber from high on her slim prow. I steadied myself and started across toward her, and as I did the rectangle of light that was the open port jiarrowed and winked out. The lomiber lights flicked out and the red and green pattern of her running lights sprang up. I stopped dead and felt a drumming start up, vibrating through the pavement under my feet. I started to run then, and my legs were broken straws that collapsed and my head hit and the blow cleared it for a moment. I got my chin up off the pavement; and Jong# II lifted, standing up away from the surface on a tenuous pillar of blue flame that lengthened as she rose. Then she was climbing swiftly into the night. "They were all around me in a A tight circle. I stared at their homy shins, their sandaled feet, as alien as an alligator's, and felt the icy sweat clammy on my face. Deathly sickness rose inside me in a wave that knotted my stomach and left me quivering like a beached jellyfish. The legs around me stirred and gave way to a tall Drathian in the white serape of a Rule-keeper. Hard hands clamped on me, dragged me to my feet. A light glared in my face. "Man, the Rule-keeper demands you to produce the two slaves given as a gift to you by his Least Greatness!" "Gone," I gargled the words. "Tmsted Srat. Filthy Midget..." "Man, you are guilty of a crime of the first category! Illegal manumission of slaves! To redress these crimes, the Rule-keeper demands a fine of twice the value of the slaves, plus triple bribes for himself and his attendants!" "You're out of luck," I said. "No money... no ship... all gone..." I felt myself blacking out then. I was dimly aware of being carried, of lights glaring on me, later of a pain that seemed to tear me open, like a rotten fruit; but it was all remote, far away, happening to someone else... I came to myself lying on a hard pallet on a stone floor, still sick, but clear-headed now. For a while, I looked at the lone glare-bulb in the ceiling and tried to remember what had happened, but it was all a confused fog. I sat up and a redhot hook grabbed at my side. I pulled back the short, coarse-weave jacket I was wearing, and saw a livid, six-inch cut under my ribs, neatly stitched with tough thread. It was the kind of wound that would heal in a few weeks and leave a welted scar; a scar like I'd seen recently, in the sides of Huvile and the Lady Raire. A scar that meant I was a slave. IF IF  Short Story Nice of you to volunteer to emigrate from Earthy Joey. It was getting too crowded -- especially for guys like me! May #, # Mr. Joseph L. Seaworthy Apartment # Spaac Tower Luxemburg Complex Benilux City, Europe Dear Joey: Janie and I were just shocked to hear the news about you and Sylvia. Your sister Ellen called a few days ago and told us, and I swear Janie hasn't stopped crying since. She wanted to call you right away but I told her not to, as I figure you had enough on your mind without us bothering you. Not that I don't feel bad too; after all, we've been like brothers, being raised together and all. Anyway, we were sitting in our apartment tonight when I asked Janie, "When are Joey and Syl due to Jumpoff?" And she figured it out and it came to just # days from today and I said, "Janie, we really should do something for Joe and Syl to show how much we appreciate the sacrifice they are making by leaving everything behind and going out to settle the Universe." "What do you have in mind, lover?" Janie asked. One thing about her, she's not like so many of these modem wives but lets me have my way before telling me what she thinks. So I told her all about the great idea of mine to buy that property you own in the Canadian Rockies. "The way I look at it, sweetie," I explained, "Joey and Sylvia don't have any more use for the property so the least we can do for them is to take it off their hands at a fair price. So, suppose we offer them CR# for it." "Gee, honey," Janie came back at me, "we can't afford to spend that much money; and besides, that sounds like an awful lot for a house with only five bedrooms and a medium-siz pool." "Sweetheart," I told her, "it's the least we can do for two great people like Joey and Sylvia. After all, now that they've been tapped for Exodus, they've got to give up everything and become part of a team that's going to a far-away world with all its dangers and discomforts. In fact, I think I'll raise that to CR #." Anyway, Joey, there you have it. Like I told Janie, I haven't got any real use for the property but as we don't have a vacation home of our own, I thought it 'might be fun to run up to the Rockies every once in a while and do some repair work on the house or just supervise the repairmen. Better let me know right away so we can get the title transferred before you blast. Be sure to give my love to Sylvia and tell her how much we're going to miss her. All my best Harry June #, # Mr. Harry Aimes #I Central City Ohio District U.S.A. Dear Harry: Sylvia and I were both surprised to receive your letter. Ever since you stamped out of our apartment that time I refused to appoint you supervisor at the Omaha-West plant, we've been wondering how you were making out. I heard about you losing your job with Marcy Watermaking and was shocked at the charges, but Tm sure the hearing will vindicate you. Actually, Syl and I were not drafted but volunteered to go to gone, there really isn't much to keep us here, so we decided to try the excitement of colonizing a new has a pleasant climate, which will make it nice for us older people; and there are no reports of dangerous native life, which suits an old coward like me just fine. At our age we have no longing for "adventure" and our idea of romance is to cuddle up and watch a good trivee show. So you see that we do not feel badly about leaving old Mother Earth but are looking forward to a whole new and useful life. I'm sorry that I have to answer you by letter rather than calling direct, but ever since the names have been made public we have been positively hounded by all sorts of Ieople wanting to sell us things or offering to buy our belongings at ridiculous prices. It finally got so bad that we had our phones disconnected and rarely bother answering the doorbell. We have such a short time left on Earth that we cannot bear to waste it on ghouls and con men. I got the impression that a whole industry has grown up around, or perhaps because of, the monthly colonization parties. The government is more than generous in the matter of severance pay or, in the case of a private businessman IF iike myself, will buy your business at the full market price. They do restrict you to # kilos of personal belongings and among # people this must add up to quite a list of items that must be disposed of. In the event that we don't hear from you again, Sylvia and I wish you and Janie all the happiness in the world. All my best, Joe June # Mr. Joseph L. Seaworthy Apartment # Spaac Tower Luxemburg Complex Benilux City, Europe Dear Joey: Boy, were Janie and I glad to hear from you. It's been three weeks since we wrote and for a while we were afraid you were just too busy with final preparations to bother answering us. Of course we would have understood, as it's only eight weeks 'til blastoff, but we would have been very disappointed. As it is, your letter came this morning and I just wish you could have seen how it cheered Janie up. The poor kid works so hard all day that my heart goes out to her. Some day when things break right for me I'm going to make her quit that lousy job and spend the rest of her life just sitting around and taking it easy. Anyway, I enjoyed your letter very much but I got to admit that at first I was shocked to hear that you volunteered to ship out. Then I though it over and decided that I admire you and Sylvia very, very much. Imagine wanting to go a a brand new planet that might be filled with all kinds of ferocious animals and loathsome diseases. Boy, you sure got more courage than I have, Joey! I think it's terrible that all those people keep bothering you about your furniture and stuff. I can't understand why the government does not put a stop to that kind of thing. After all, if we don't keep sending people out every month there soon wouldn't be room enough for all the people left on Earth; but I really think that those that stay behind shouldn't be allowed to bother the settlers during their last days at home. Janie agrees with me on this and I'm going to write our Representative about it as soon as I can find time. You must have overlooked it, but in my last letter I offered to take your vacation shack off your hands. I've heard how those damn real estate vultures won't offer a man anything for his property once th know he's shipping out and I can't stand the idea of anyone pulling that stuff on one of my relatives, so you just say the word, Joey boy, and I'll stat you a check for CR# so fast it'll shock you. Bey, it makes me mad to think that these kind of guys would take advantage of great people like you and Syl who are giving up everything to go out and make the Universe safe for mankind. You'll have to excuse the short letter, but I'm anxious to bear from you about the siback. Boy, I'm just steamed about all (hose people trying to cheat you. Remember, Joey boy, just say the word and I'll have a check in your hands in no time. All our love, Harry July #, # Mr. Harry Aimes #I Central City Ohio District U.S.A. Dear Harry: How very nice to get another letter from you before we leave. We still have five weeks but most of our friends have said good-by already and have since treated us as though we were already gone. I suppose you can't blame them; protracted farewells are a bore, but it makes it rather lonely for Sylvia and myself. I suppose there is a very good reason for this just as there are good reasons for sending # people each month to colonize another planet. It's just that it can be hard on the people that have to leave. Now that the farewells have been said, I'm spending all my time disposing of our possessions. It's amazing how much a family accumulates during thirty years of marriage; and I have run across things I didn't even know we had, as well as things I thought were long discarded and forgotten. For example, remember that time I got the maintenance franchise for Spaac Tower and bought all those robo-maints and hired you to run the operation? I found all the bills you ran up before getting into an argument with Mr. Spaac and losing the contract. I will admit I was very angry with you that time, Harry, but as Sylvia pointed out to me, it only took five years to recoup the losses and the money doesn't mean that much to us where we're going anyway, so why not forgive and forget. I would have answered your letter sooner, but Syl is in Borneo with Ronnie and Helen. She has been there for the past three weeks and I spent part of the first week with her. Those grandchildren of ours are the most beautiful children I've ever seen. Sylvia swears kids are smarter these days, but I doubt it. I just think our grandchildren ore smarter. You really should let Janie take a year off and have twins or even triplets. They add so much to an apartment. Try not to worry much about the upcoming trial. I'm sure the indictment sounds a lot worse than it really is. #f course, that larcenyby-trick conviction five years ago may influence the jurors; but I understand Judge Jason will probably preside and, knowing him as well as I do, I'm sure he will be completely fair. Thank you again for taking the trouble to write to us, Harry. I have always had a tender spot in my heart for you, perhaps because of my love for your mother. I was so young when Mom died that I tend to think of Aunt Serene as my mother. I remember so well the day you were born and how proud she was and the hopes she -- Oh well, I'm afraid I'm getting morIF bid. This is probably the last you'll ever hear from me, so God keep you and I wish you only happiness in the future. With all my love, Joe July #, # Mr. Joseph L. Seaworthy Apartment # Spaac Tower Luxemburg, Complex Benilux City, Europe Dear Joe: Isn't there any way I can reach you by phone? It's over a month since I wrote. Your letter arrived just this morning and I spent all day trying to reach you. Janie is going to be mad when she sees the bill I ran up. Christ, it must be CR# easy! You weren't kidding when you said that you couldn't be reached! I must have talked to # of your neighbors but nobody could get hold of you. Joey, buddy. I'll level with you about that Canadian property. It's taking all my money to fight this water-steal thing and if Janie and I could live there we could use the money saved to hire a better lawyer. Damn it all, what if I did drill a well and sell a few thousand gallons of water? There's more than that wasted every day. Don't tell me those politicians don't get all the water they want. In fact, I got it on good authority that oiu sweet mayor actually has a bathtub in the official penthouse and takes a bath every week and damn the citizens if they don't like it. The sono-baths ore good enough for us mortals. I'd come to see you, Joey, but the cops won't let me leave the Ohio District of the city. So the best I can do is get this letter in the mail right away. Please, Joey, for old times sake, let me buy that property. Regards to Sylvia Harry August #, # Mr. Harry Aimes #I Central City Ohio District U.S.A. Dear Harry: Please bear with me as I'm still feeling the after-effects of our prepshots. It's the funniest feeling. You sit down in this odd-looking chair and the robo-doc asks you a few questions and then you get up and go home. While you're answering the questions the robodoc is giving you ail kinds of injections. I don't know how they manage to get through the clothes, but they do; and by the time you get home, you're feeling dizzy and nauseous. I wish the feeling would wear off already, but the robo-doc says it will last right up to the time we enter deepfreeze. Harry, Sylvia and I have talked it over and decided that we are no longer angry at you. This is probably the last time we shall communicate as we plan to enter deepfreeze day after tomorrow. I don't know if I mentioned it, but the voyage will take three hundred years so we will never meet again in this life. I will admit that Sylvia and I both find it hard to overlook the past but we are going to make an honest attempt at it. Harry, I always knew that it was you that sold me out to the Barking trust that time. I wondered how they knew just the moment my Flanger was down for reorientation and they could flood my reclaim tanks; so I hired a detective agency and found my trusted associate and first cousin had sold the information for the princely sum of CR#. As it worked out, I managed to salvage enough of the business to buy the water concession for Omaha-West. This could have put the whole family in private homes with unlimited water privileges but again you could not bear to pass up the chance for an extra credit or two. The main reason I sold out was because I knew about the well you were digging and had no intention of being involved in anything as serious as that. That was also why I wouldn't appoint you supervisor. Anyway, Harry, this is all in the past now and I want you to accept my forgiveness in the humble spirit in which it is proffered Goodby Joe Mr. Joseph Seaworthy Apartment # Spaac Tower Luxemburg Complex Benilux City, Europe Joe: All right, you want me to crawl and I'm crawling. I got to have that property to bribe the Water Marshal with. You know what the penalty for Water Misuse is. Please, please don't let it happen to me. I admit lall those things you mentioned and I apologize. I'm sorry for everything I ever did to you, Joey, but I must have that property. Dear God, don't let them convict me of Water Misuse. If you have any sense of family loyalty at all, you'll let me have the house. It's no good to you where you're going anyway. I found out that the Water Marshal wants a house -- any house -- of his own badly enough to swear that I just-finished digging the weU and never pumped a drop. All I have to do is sell it to him and I got a chance. Please, Joey, please, Sylvia, don't let them convict me on a Water Misuse charge. Help me! Harry Friday Mr. Harry Aimes #I Central City Ohio District U.S.A. Dear Harry: I would have missed your letter if I hadn't came back to the apartment for my make-up kit. You know how I always manage to forget it. I don't have time to write you a proper letter as Joseph is buzzing me from the roof. So, good-by, dear, and remember that we forgive and love you. We've given the house away to the orphans of some of the people who di of thirst last year. Sylvia IF IF  Novelette ilriftglass Sure amphimen are human. Whaf if we do have gi#s, breathe wafer, look like monsters -- and die like flies? I S ometimes I go down to the port, splashing sand with my stiff foot at the end of my stiff leg locked in my stiff hip, with the useless arm a-s winging, to get wet all over again, drink in the dives with old cronies ashore, feeling old, broken, sorry for myself, laughing louder and louder. The third of my face that was burned away in the accident was patched with skingrafts from my chest, so what's left of my mouth distorts all loud sounds; sloppy sartorial reconstruction. Also I have a hairy chest. Chest hair does not look like beard hair, and it grows all up under my right eye. And: my beard is red, my chest hair brown, while the thatch curling down over neck and ears is sunstreaked to white here, darkened to bronze there, 'midst general blondness. By reason of my being a walking (I suppose my gait could be called headlong limping) horror show, plus a general inclination to sulk, I spend most of the time up in the wood and glass and aluminum house on the surf-sloughed point that the Aquatic Corp gave me along with my pension. Rugs from Turkey there, cooper pots, my tenor recorder which I can no longer play, and my books. But sometimes, when the gold fog blurs the morning, I go down to the beach and Ixomp barefoot in the wet edging of the sea, searching for driftglass. I t was foggy that morning, and the sun across the water moiled the mists around like a brass ladle. I lurched to the top of the rocks, looked down through the tall grasses into the frothing inlet where she lay and blinked. She sat up, long gills closing down her neck and the secondary slits along her back just visible at their tips because of much hair, wet and curling copper, falling there. She saw me. "at are you doing here, huh?" She narrowed blue eyes. "Looking for driftglass." "What?" "There's a piece." I pointed near her and came down the rocks like a crab with one stiff leg. "Where?" She turned over, half in, half out of the water, the webs of her fingers cupping nodules of black stone. While the water made cold overtures between my toes, I picked up the milky fragment by her elbow where she wasn't looking. She jumped, because she obviously had thought it was somewhere else. "See?" "What... what is it?" She raised her cool hand to mine. For a moment the light through the milky gem and the pale film of my own webs pearled the screen of the palms. (Details like that. Yes, they are the important things, the points from which we suspend later pain.) A moment later wet fingers closed to the back of mine. "Driftglass," I said. "You know all the Coca-Cola bottles and cut crystal punch bowls and industrial silicon slag that goes into the sea?" "I know the Coca-Cola bottles." "They break, and the tide pulls the pieces back and forth over the sandy bottom, wearing the edges, chging their shape. Sometimes chemicals in the glass react with chemicals in the ocean to change the color. Sometimes veins work their way through a piece in patterns like snowflakes, regular and geometric; others, irregular and angled like coral. When the pieces dry they're milky. Put them in water and they become transparent again." "Ohhh!" She breathed as though the beauty of the blunted triangular fragment in my palm assailed her like perfume. Then she looked at my face, blinking the third, aqueous-filled lid that we use as a correction lens for underwater vision. She watched the ruin calmly. Then her hand went to my foot where the webs had been torn back in the accident. She began to take in who I was. I looked for horror, but saw only a little sadness. The insignia on her buckle -- her stomach was making little jerks the way you always do during the first few minutes when you go from breathing water to air -- told me IF she was a Biological Technician. (Back up at the house there was a similar uniform of simulated scales folded in the bottom drawer of the dresser and the belt insignia said Depfth Gauger.) I was wearing some very frayed jeans and a red cotton shirt with no buttons. She reached up to my neck, pushed my collar back from my shoulders and touched the tender slits of my gills, outlining them with cool fingers. "Who are you?" Finally. "Cal Svenson." S he slid back down in the water. "You're the one who had the terrible... but that was years ago. They still talk about it, down... She stopped. As the sea softens the surface of a piece of glass, so it blurs the souls and sensibilities of the people who toil beneath her. And according to the last report of the Marine Reclamation Division there are to date seven hundred and fifty thousand who have been given gills and webs and sent under the foam where there are no storms, up and down the American coast. "You live on shore? I mean around here? But so long ago..." "How old are you?" "Sixteen." "I was two years older than you when the accident happened." "You were eighteen?" "And I'm twice that age now. Which means it happened almost twenty years ago. It is a long time." "They still talk about it." "I've almost forgotten," I said. "I really have. Say, do you play the recorder?" "I used to." "Good! Come up to my place and look at my tenor recorder. And I'll make some tea. Perhaps you can stay for lunch -- " "I have to report back to Marine Headquarters by three. Tork is going over the briefing to lay the cable for the big dive, with Tonni and the crew." She paused, smiled. "But I can catch the undertow and be there in half an hour if I leave by two-thirty." On the walk up I learned her name was Ariel. She thought the patio was charming, and the mosaic evoked, "Oh, look!" and, "Did you do this yourself?" a half-dozen times. (I had done it, in the first lonely years.) She picked out the squid and the whale in battle, the woundeed shark and the diver. She told me she didn't get time to read much, but she was impressed by all the books. She listened to me reminisce. She talked a lot to me about her work, husbanding the deepdown creatures they were scaring up. Then she sat astraddle the kitchen chair, playing a Lukas Foss serenade on my recorder while I put rock salt in the bottom of the broiler tray for two dozen Oysters Rockefeller and the tea water whistled. I'm a comparatively lonely guy. I like being followed by beautiful young girls. n #TTey, Juao!" I bawled across Xi. the jetty. IF He nodded to me from the center of his nets, sun glistening on the polished heads of his shoulders, sun lost in the rough mass of his hair. I walked across the nets to where he sat, sewing like a spider. He pulled another section up over his horny toes, then grinned at me with his mosaic smile: gold, white, black gap below, crooked yellow; white, gold, white. Shoving my bad leg in front, I squatted, "I fished out over the coral where you told me." He filled his cheek with his tongue and nodded. "You come up to the house for a drink, eh?" "Fine." "Now a moment more." There's a certain sort of Brazilian you find along the shore in the fishing villages, old, yet ageless. See one of their men and you think he could be fifty, he could be sixty -- will probably look the same when he's eighty-five. Such was Juao. We once figured it out. He's seven hours older than I am. We became friends sometime before the accident when I got tangled in his nets working high lines in Vorea Current. A lot of guys would have taken their knife and hacked their way out of the situation, ruining fifty-five, sixty dollars worth of nets. That's an average fisherman's .income down here. But I surfaced and sat around in his boat while he untied me. Then we came in and got plastered. Since I cost him a day's fishing, I've been giving him hints on where to fish ever since. He buys me drinks when I come up with something. This has been going on for twenty years. During that time my life has been smashed up and landbound. In the same time Juao has married off his five sisters, got married himself and had two children. (Oh, those bolitos and teneros asa dos that Amalia of the ohed braid and laughing breasts would make for Sunday dinnersupperMonday breakfast.) I rode with them in the ambulance 'copter all the way into Brasilia and in the hospital hall Juao and I stood together, both still barefoot, he tattered with fish scales in his hair, me just tattered, and I held him while he cried and I tried to explain to him how a world that could take a pre-pubescent child and with a week of operations make an amphibious creature that can exist for a month on either side of the sea's foam-fraught surface, could still be helpless before certain general endocrine cancers coupled with massive renal deterioration. Juao and I returned to the village alone, by bus, three days before our birthday -- back when I was twenty-three and Juao was twenty-three and seven hours old. Ci'his morning," Juao said. (The A shuttle danced in the web at the end of the orange line.) "I got a letter for you to read me. It's about the children. Come on, we go up and drink." The shuttle paused, back-tracked twice, and he yanked the knot tight. We walked along the port toward the square. "Do you think the letter says that the children are accepted?" "It's from the Aquatic Corp. And they just send postcards when they reject someone. The question is, how do you feel about it?" "You are a good man. If they grow up like you, then it will be fine." "But you're still worried." I'd been prodding Juao to get the kids into the International Aquatic Corp nigh on since I became their godfather. The operations had to be performed before puberty. It would meian much time away from the village during their training period -- and they might eventually be stationed in any ocean in the world. But two motherless children had not been easy on Juao or his sisters. The Oorp would mean education, travel, interesting work, the things that make up one kind of good life. They wouldn't look twice their age when they were thirtyfive; and not too many amphimen look like me. "Worry is part of life. But the work is dangerous. Did you know there is an amphiman going to try and lay cable down in the Slash." I frowned. "Again?" "Yes. And that is what you tried to do when the sea broke you to pieces and burned the parts, eh?" "Must you be so damned picturesque?" I asked. "Who's going to beard the lion this time?" "A young amphiman named Tork. They speak of him down at the docks as a brave man." "Why the hell are they still trying to lay the cable there? They've gotten by this long without a line through the Slash." "Because of the fish," Juao said. "You told me why twenty years ago. The fish are still there, and we fishermen who can not go below are still here. If the children go for the operations, then there will be less fishermen. But today..." He shrugged. "They must either lay the line across the fish paths or down in the Slash." Juao shook his head. Funny things, the great power cables the Aquatic Corp has been strewing across the ocean floor to bring power to their undersea mines and farms, to run their oil wells -- and how many flaming wells have I capped down there -- for their herds of whale, and chemical distillation plants. They carry two hundred sixty cycle current. Over certain sections of the ocean floor, or in sections of the water with certain mineral contents, this sets up inductance in the water itself which sometimes -- and you will probably get a Nobel prize if you can detail exactly why it isn't always -- drives the fish away over areas up to twentyy-five and thirty miles, unless the lines are laid in the bottom of those canyons that delve suddenly into the ocean floor, "This Tork thinks of the fishermen. He is a good man too." I raised my eyebrows -- the one that's left, anyway -- and tried to remember what my little Undine had said about him that morning. And remembered not much. "I wish him luck," I said. "What do you feel about this young man going down into the coral rimmed jaws to the Slash?" I thought for a moment. "I think I hate him." IF uao looked up. "He is an image in a mirror where I look and am forced to regard what I was," I went on. "I envy him the chance to succeed where I failed, and I can come on just as quaint as you can. I hope he makes it." Juao twisted his shoulders in a complicated shrug (once I could do that) which is coastal Brazilian for, "I didn't know things had progressed to that point, hut seeing that they have, there is little to be done." "The sea is that sort of mirror," I said. "Yes." Juao nodded. Behind us I heard the slapping of Sandies on concrete. I turned in time to catch my goddaughter in my good arm. My godson had grabbed hold of the bad one and was swinging on it. "Tio Cal -- " "Hey, Tio Cal, what did you bring us?" "You will pull him over," Juao reprimanded them. "Let go." And, bless them, they ignored their father. "What did you bring us?" "What did you bring us, Tio Cal?" "If you let me. I'll show you." So they stepped back, green-eyed and quivering. I watched Juao watching. His eyes were brown pupils on ivory balls, and in the left eye a vein had broken in a jagged smear. He was loving his children, who would soon be as alien to him as the fish he netted. He was looking at the terrible thing that was me and wondering what would come to his own spawn. And he was watching the world turn and grow older, clocked by the waves, reflected in that mirror. It's impossible for me to see what the population explosion and the budding colonies on Lima and Mars and the flowering beneath the ocean really look like from the disrupted cultural melange of a coastal fishing town. But I come closer than many others, and I know what I don't understand. I pushed around in my rocket and fetched out the milky fragment I had brought from the beach. "Here. Do you like this one?" And they bent above my webbed and alien fingers. I n the supermarket, which is the biggest building in the village, Juao bought a lot of cake mixes. "That moist, delicate texture," whispered the box when you lifted it from the shelf, "with that deep flavor, deeper than chocolate." I'd just read an article about the new vocal packaging in a U.S. magazine that had gotten down last week, so I was prepared and stayed in the fresh vegetable sectiom to avoid temptation. Then we went up to Juao's house. The letter proved to be what I'd expected. The kids had to take the bus into Brasilia tomorrow. My godchildren were on their way to becoming fish. We sat on the front steps and drank and watched the donkeys, and the motorbikes, the men in baggy trousers, the women in yellow scarfs and brighter skirts with wreaths of garlic and sacks of onions. As well, a few people glittered by in the green scales of amphimen uniforms. Finally Juao got tired and went in to take a nap. Most of my life has been spent on the coast of countries accustomed to siestas, but those first formative ten were passed on a Danish collective farm and the idea never really took. So I stepped over my goddaughter, who Itad fallen asleep on her fists on the bottom step, and walked back through the town toward the beach. m A t midnight Ariel came out of the sea, climbed the rocks and clicked her nails against my glass wall so that droplets ran down, pearled by the gibbous moon. Earlier I had stretched in front of the fireiace on the sheepskin throw to read, then dozed off. The conscientious timer had asked me if there was anything I wanted, and getting no answer had turned off the Dvorak Cello Concerto that was on its second time around, extinguished the reading lamp, and stopped dropping logs onto the flame so that now, as I woke, the grate was carpeted with coals. She clicked on the glass again, and I raised my head from the cushion. The green uniform, her amber hair -- all color was lost under the silver light outside. I lurched across the rug to the glass wall, touched the button, and the glass slid down into the floor. The breeze came to my face, as the barrier disappeared. T# "What do you want?" I asked. "What time is it, anyway?" "Tork is on the beach, waiting for you." The night was warm but windy. Below the rocks silver flakes chas each other into shore. The tide lay full. I rubbed my face. "The new boss man? Why didn't you bring him up to the house? What does he want to see me about?" She touched my arm. "Come. They are all down on the beach." "Who all?" "Tork and the others." She led me across the patio and to the path that wound to the sand. The sea roared in the moonlight. Down the beach people stood around a driftwood fire that whipped into the night. Ariel walked beside me. Two of the fishermen from town were crowding each other on the bottom of an overturned washtub, playing guitars. The singing, raucous and rhythmic, jarred across the paled sand. Shark's teeth shook on the necklace of an old woman dancing. Others were sitting on an overturned dinghy, eating. Over one part of the fire on a skillet two feet across, oil frothed through pink islands of shrimp. One woman ladled them in, another ladled them out. "Tio Cal!" "Look, Tio Cal is here!" "Hey, what are you two doing up?" I asked. "Shouldn't you be home in bed?" "Poppa Juao said we could come. He'll be here, too, soon." IF I turned to Ariel. "Why are they all gathering?" "Because of the laying of the cable tomorrow at dawn." Someone was running up the beach, waving a bottle in each hand. "They didn't want to tell you about the party. They thought that it might hurt your pride." "My what..." "If you knew they were making so big a thing of the job you had failed at -- " "But -- " " -- and that had hurt you so in failure. They did not want you to he sad. But Tork wants to see you. I said you would not be sad. So I went to bring you down from the rocks." "Thanks, I guess." 'Tio Cal?" But the voice was bigger and deeper than a child's, T Te sat on a log back from the AJ. fire, eating a sweet potato. The flame flickered on his dark cheekbones, in his hair, wet and black. He stood, came to me, held up his hand. I held up mine and we slapped palms. "Good." He was smiling. "Ariel told me you would come. I will lay the power line down through the Slash tomorrow." His imiform scales glittered down his aims. He was very strong. But standing still, he still moved. The light on the cloth told me that. "I... " He paused. I thought of a nervous, happy dancer. "I wanted to talk to you about the cable." I thought of an eagle, I thought of a shark. "And about the... accident. If you would." "Sure," I said. "If there's anything I could tell you that would help." "See, Tork," Ariel said. "I told you he would talk to you about it." I could hear his breathing change. "It really doesn't bother you to talk about the accident?" I shook my head and realized something about my voice. It was a boy's voice that could imitate a man's. Tork was not over nineteen or twenty. "We're going fishing soon," Tork told me. "Will you come?" "If I'm not in the way." A bottle went from the woman at the shrimp crate to one of the guitarists, down to Ajiel, to me, then to Tork. (The liquor, made in a cave seven miles inland, was almost rum. The too tight skin across the left side of my mouth makes the manful swig a little difficult to bring off. I got 'rum' down my chin.) He drank, wiped his mouth, passed the bottle on and put his hand on my shoulder "Come down to the water." We walked away from the fire. Some of the fishermen stared after us. A few of the amphimen glanced and glanced away. "Do all the young people of the village call you Tio Cal?" "No. Only my godchildren. Their father and I have been friends since I was your age." "Oh, I thought perhaps it was a nickname. That's why I called you that." IF We reached wet sand where orange light cavorted at our feet. The broken shell of a lifeboat rocked in moonligjht. Toork sat down on the shell's rim. I sat beside him. The water splashed to our knees. "There's no other place to lay the power cable?" I asked. "There is no other way to take it except through the Slash?" "I was going to ask you what you thought of the wibole business. But I guess I don't really have to." He shrugged and clapped his hands together a few times. "All the projets this side of the bay have grown huge and cry for power. The new operations tax the old lines unmercifully. There was a power failure last July in Cayine down the shelf below the twilit level. The whole village was without lights for two days, and twelve amphimen died of overexposure to the cold currents coming up from the depths. If we laid the cables farther up, we chance disrupting our own fishing operations as well as those of the fishermen on shore." I nodded. "Cal, what happened to you in the Slash?" E ager, scared Tork. I was remembering now, not the accident, but the midnight before, pacing the beach, guts clamped with fists of fear and anticipation. Some of the Indians back where they make the liquor still send messages by tying knots in palm fibers. One could have spread my entrails then, or Tork's tonight, to read our respective horospecs. Juao's mother knew the knot language, but he and his sisters Qieveir bothered to learn because they wanted to be modem, and, as children, still confused with modernity with the new ignorances, lacking modem knowledge. "When I was a boy," Tork said, "we would dare each other to walk down the boards along the edge of the fiery slip. The sun would be hot and the boards would rock in the water, and if the boats were in and you fell down between the boats and the piling, you could get killed." He shook his head. "The cra#iy things kids will do. That was back when I was eight or nine, before I became a waterbaby." "Where was it?" Tork looked up. "Oh. Manila. Fm Filipino." The sea licked our knees, and the gunwale sagged under us. "What happened in the Slash?" "There's a volcano flaw near the base of the Slash." "I know." "And the sea is as sensitive down there as a fifty-year-old woman with a new hairdo. We had an avalanche. The cable broke. And the sparks were so hot and bright they made gouts of foam fifty feet high on the surface, so they tell me." "What caused the avalanche?" I shrugged. "It could just been a God-damned coincidence. There are rock falls down there all the time. It could have been the noose from the machines -- though we masked them pretty well. It could have been something to do with the inductance from the smaller cables for the machines. Or maybe somebody just kicked out the wrong stone that was holding everything up." One webbed hand became a fist, sank into the other, and hung. Calling, "Cal!" I looked back. Juao, pants rolled to his knees, shirt sailing in the sea wind, stood in the weave of white water. The wind lifted Tork's hair from his neck; and the fire roared up on the beach. Tork looked back too. "They're getting ready to catch a big fish!" Juao called. Men were already pushing their boats out. Tork clapped my shoulder. "Come, Cal. We fish now." We stood up and went back to the shore. Juao caught me as I reached dry sand. "You ride in my boat, Cal." Someone came with the acrid flares that hissed. The water slapped around the bottom of the boats as we wobbled into the swell. Juao vaulted in and took up the oars. Around us green amphimen walked into the sea, struck forward, and were gone. Juaro pulled, leaned, pulled. The moonlight slid down his arms. The fire diminished on the beach. T hen among the boats, there was a splash, an explosion, and the red flare bloomed in the sky: the amphimen had sighted a big fish. The flare hovered, pulsed once, twice, three times, four times (twenty, forty, sixty, eighty stone they estimated its weight to be), then fell. Suddenly I shrugged out of my shirt, pulled at my belt buckle. "I'm going over the side, Juao!" He leaned, he pulled, he leaned. "Take the rope." "Yeah. Sure." It was tied to the back of the boat. I made a loop in the other end, slipped it around my shoulder. I swung my bad leg over the side, flung myself on the black water --  -- mother of pearl shattered over me. That was the moon, blocked by the shadow of Juao's boat ten feet overhead. I turned below the rippling wounds Juao's oars made stroking the sea. One hand, and one foot with tom webs, I rolled over and looked down. The rope snaked to its end, and I felt Juao's strokes pulling me through the water. They fanned below with underwater flares. Light undulated on their backs and heels. They circled, they closed, like those deep sea fish who carry their own illumination. I saw the prey, glistening as it neared a flare. You chase a fish with one spear among you. And that spear would ibe Tork's tonight. The rest have ropes to bind him that go up to the fishermen's boats. There was a sudden confusion of lights below. The spear had been shot! The fish, long as a tail and a short man together, rose through the ropes. He turned out to sea, trailing his pursuers. But others waited there, tried to loop him. Once I had flung those ropes, treated with tar and lime to dissolve the slime of the fish's body and hold IF to the beast. The looped ropes caught, and by the movement of the flares, I saw them jerked from their paths. The fish turned, rose again, this time toward me. He pulled around when one line ran out (and somewhere on the surface the prow of a boat doffed deep) but turned back and came on. Of a sudden, amphimen were flicking about me as the fray's center drifted by. Tork, his spear dug deep, forward and left of the marlin's dorsal, had hauled himself astride the beast. The fish tried to shake him, then dropped his tail and rose straight. Everybody started pulling toward the surface. I broke in foam and grabbed Juao's gunwale. Tork and the fish exploded up among the boats. They twisted in the air, in moonlight, in foam. The fish danced across the water on its tail, fell. Juao stood up in the boat and shouted. The other fishermen shouted too, and somebody perched n the prow of a boat flung a rope and someone in the water caught it. Then fish and Tork and me and a dozen amphimen all went underwater at once. They dropped in a corona of bubbles. The fish struck the end of another line, and shook himself. Tork was thrown free, but doubled back. Then the lines began to haul the beast up again, quivering, whipping, quivering again. Six lines from six boats had him. For one moment he was still in the submarine moonlight. I could see his wound tossing scarfs of blood. W hen he (and we) broke surface, he was thrashing again, noaiT Juao's boat. I was holding onto the side when suddenly Tork, iglistieniflig, came out of the yater beside me and went over into the boat, "Here you go," he said, turning to kneel at the bobbing rim, aad pulled me up while Juao leaned against the far side to keep balance. Wet rope slopped on the prow. "Hey, Cal!" Tork laughed and grabbed it up, and began to haul. The fish moiled in the white water. The boats came together. The amphimen had all climbed up. Ariel was across from us, holding a flare that drooled smoke down her sum as she peered by the hip of the fisherman who was standing in front of her. Juao and Tork were hauling the rope. Behind them I was coiling it with one hand as it came back to me. The fish came up and was flapped into Ariel's boat, tail out, head up, chewing air a few moments more. I had just finished pulling on my trousers when Tork fell down on the seat behind me and grabbed me around the shoulder with his wet arm. "Look at our fish, Tio Call Look!" He gasped air, laughing, his dark face diamonded beside the flares. "Look at our fish there. Cal!" Juao, grinning white and gold, pulled us back into shore. The fhe, the singing hands beating hands -- and my godson had put pebbles in the empty rum bottle and was shaking it in time to the music -- the guitars spiraled around us as we cairied the fish up the sand and the men brought the spit. "Watch it!" Tork said, grasping the pointed end of the great stick that was thicker than his wrist. We turned the fish over. "Here, Cal?" He prodded two fingers into the widte flesh six inches back from the boriey lip. "Fine." Tork jammed the spit in. We worked it through the body. By the time we carried it to the fire, they had brought more rum. "Hey, Tork. Are you going to get some sleep before you go down in the morning?" I asked. He shook his head. "Slept all afternoon." He pointed toward the roasting fish with his elbow. "That's my breakfast." But when the dancing grew violent a few hours later, just before the fish was to come off the fire, and the kids were pushing the last of the sweet potatoes from the ashes with sticks, I walked back to the water to the lifeboat shdl we had sat on earlier. It was three quarters flooded. Curled below still water, Tork slept, fist loose before his mouth, t#ae gills at die back of his neck pulsing rhythmically. Only his shoulder and hip made islands in the floated boat. # #TThere's Tork?" Arid asked VVme at the fire. They were swinging up the sizzling fish. "Taking a nap." "Oh, he wanted to cut the fish!" "He's got a lot of work coming up. Sure you want to wake him up?" "No, I'll let him sleep." But Tork was coming up from the water, brushing his dripping hair back from his forehead. He grinned at us, then went to carve the meat. I remember him standing on the table by the fire, astraddle the meat, arm going up and down with the big knife ((details, yes, those are the things you remember) stopping to hand down the meat, then hauling his arm back to cut again. That night, with music and stomping on the sand and shouting back and forth over the fire, we made more noise than the sea. IV T he eight-thirty bus was more or less on time. "I don't think they want to go," Juao's sister said. She was accompanying the children to the Aquatic Corp Headquarters in Brasilia. "They are just tired," Juao said. "They should not have stayed up so late last night. Get on the bus now. Say good-by to Tio Cal." "Good-by." "Good-by." Kids are never their most creative in that sort of situation. And I suspect that my godchildren may just have been suffering their first (or one of their first) hangovers. They had been very quiet all morning. IF I bent down and gave them a duansy hug. "When you come back on your first weekend off, I'll take you exploring down below at the point. You'll be able to gather your own coral now." Juao's sister got teary, cuddled the children, cuddled me, Juao, then got on the bus. Someone was shouting out the window for someone else at the bus stop not to forget something as they trundled around the square and then toward the highway. We walked back across the street where the cafe owners were putting out canvas chairs. "I will miss them," he said, like a long-considered admission. "You and me both." At the docks near the hydrofoil wharf where the submarine launches went out to the undersea cities, we saw a crowd. "I wonder if they had any trouble laying the -- " For some reason a woman screamed in the crowd. She pushed from the others, dropping eggs and onions. She must have stopped to see what the crowd was about on her way back from the market. She began to pull her hair and shriek. (Remember the skillet of shrimp? She had been the woman ladling them out.) A few people moved to help her. A clutch of men broke off and ran into the streets of the town. I grabbed an amphiman who whirled around to face me. "What in hell is going on?" For a moment his mouth worked on his words for all the trite world like a beached fish. "From the explosion..." He began. "They just brought them back from the explosion at the Slash!" I grabbed his other shoulder. "What happened!" "About two hours ago. They were just a quarter of the way through, when the whole fault gave way. They had a God-damn underwater volcano for half an hour. They're still getting seismic disturbances." Juao was running toward the launch. I pushed the guy away and limped after Ihim, struck the crowd and jostled through calico, canvas and green scales. They were carrying the corpses out of the hatch of the submarine and laying them on a green canvas spread across the dock. They still return bodies to the countries of birth for the family to decide the method of burial. When the fault had given, the hot slag that had belched into the steaming sea was mostly molten silicon. Three of the bodies were only slightly burned here and there. From their bloated faces (one sdll bled from the ear) I guessed they had died from sonic concussion. Several of the bodies were almost totally encased in dull, black glass. "Tork -- " I kept asking. "Is one of them Tork?" It took me forty-five minutes, asking first the guys who were carrying the bodies, then going into the launch and asking some guy with a clipboard, and then going back on the dock and into the office to find out that one of the more unrecogIF nizaible bcxiies, yes, was Tork. J uao brought me a glass of buttermilk in a cafe on the square. He sat still a long time, then finally rubbed away his white mustache, released the chair wrung with his toes, put his hands on his knees. "What are you thinking about?" "That it's time to go fix the nets. Tomorrow morning I will fish." He regarded me a moment. "Where should I fish tomorrow. Cal?" "Are you wondering about... well, sending the kids off today?" He shrugged. "Fishermen from this village have drowned. Still it is a village of fishermen. Where should I fish?" I finished my buttermilk. "The mineral content over the Slash should be high as the devil. Lots of algae will gather tonight. Lots of small fish down deep. Big fish hovering over." He nodded. "Good. I will take the boat out there tomorrow." We. got up. "See you, Juao." I limped back to the beach. V T he fog had unsheathed the sand by ten. I walked around, poking in clumps of weeds with a stick, banging the same stick on my numb leg. When I lurched up to the top of the rocks, I stopped in the still grass. "Ariel?" She was kneeling in the water, head down, her red hair breaking over the sealed gills. Her shoulders shook, stilled, shook again. "Ariel?" I came down over the blistered stones. She turned away to look at the ocean. Tlie attachments of children are so important and so brittle. "How long have you been sitting here?" She looked at me now, the varied waters of her face stilled on drawn cheeks. And her face was exhausted. She shook her head. Sixteen? Who was the psychologist a hundred years back, in the seventies who decided that "adolescents" were just physical and mental adults with no useful work? "You want to come up to the house?" The head shaking got faster, then stopped. After a while I said, "I guess they'll be sending Turk's body back to Manila." He didn't have a family," she explained. "He'll be buried here, at sea." "Oh," I said. And the rough volcanic glass, pulled across the ocean's sands, changing shape, dulling -- "You were -- you liked Tork a lot, didn't you?" I asked. "You kids looked like you were pretty fond of each other." "Yes. He was an awfully nice -- " Then she caught my meaning and blinked. "No," she said. "Oh, no. I was -- I was engaged to Jonni... the brown-haired boy from California? Did you meet him at the party last night? We're both from Los Angeles, but we only met down here. And now... they're sending his body back this evening." Her eyes got very wide then closed. "I'm sorry." That's it, you clumsy crippled, stepping all over everybody's emotions. You look in that mirror and you're too busy looking at what might have been to see what is. "I'm sorry, Ariel." S he opened her eyes and began to look around her. "Come on up to the house and have an avocado. I mean, they have avocados in now, not at the supermarket. But at the old town market on the other side. And they're better than any they grow in California. She kept looking around. "None of the amphimen get over there. It's a shame, because soon the market will probably close, and some of their fresh foods are really great. Oil and vinegar is all you need on them." I leaned back on the rocks. "Or a cup of tea?" "Okay." She remembered to smile. I know the poor kid didn't feel like it. "Thank you. I won't be able to stay long, though." We walked back up the rocks toward the house, the sea on our left. Just as we reached the patio, she turned and looked back. "Cal?" "Yes? What is it?" "Those clouds over there, across the water. Those are the only ones in the sky. Are they from the eruption in the Slash?" I squinted. "I think so. Come on inside." Coming Next Month A New Riverworld Novel by Philip Jose Farmer And many more in the July IF -- Reserve your copy today! IF Dear Editor: As a sociolost and science fictioneer, I find Mr. Lin Carter's discussions of fandom disturbing. To paraphrase a recent Jewish intellectual, I must take odds with Mr. Carter and expostulate that fan magazines are not only predominately anti-intellectual, but their cataleptic headache powders of frivolous "fannishness" are guaranteed not to activate the social conscience, elevate the blood pressure, or agitate the colon. In short, as one who has closely studied fandom as a subculture as observer and participant (under a deliberate nom de plume), I feel that Mr. Carter's exuberance is merely a misconception -- he is nurturing an ethnocentrism which is so typical of the non-science-fiction magazine in fandom. It is important for the sociologist dealing with fan magazines to differentiate between stated purposes and purposes which actually manifest themselves. The reason is simple. Purposes and results, in fan magazines, are hardly analoigous. For example, this researcher found in # fan magazines statements to the effect that the editors were definitely interested in analytical critics and discussions which, sad to say, most 'fans" (as differentiated from science-fiction readers) have completely ignored; e.g., discusaionsi of the sort as represented by the writings of the fan-sociologist Stephen Pickering, or the editorial by Lester del Rey, or the critiques by Alexei Panshin or Leland Sapiro. However, Mr. Carter need hardly ignore the anti-dntellectualism of most fan magazines. Such statements on the editors' part are hardly necessary. The contents of the magazines are sufficient examples of anti-intellectualism. Most fans publish magazines not to discuss and explore intellectually stimulating ideas, but to sustain a nurtured "fannish" (i.e., immature individuals) status and role. Hence,' I feel Mr. Carter's column is worthless: he is ignoring, completely and irrevocably, manifest and latent functions. That is, Mr. Carter is ignoring functions which are anticipated, and those which are neither intended nor recognized. The job of differentiating between manifest and latent functions is, of course, a task which most sciencefiction writers claim to have done, but which few actually do. Nevertheless, for all of the talk of fan magazines being representative of an the ordinary" individual, it is painfuiHy ostensible, from the reading of any 'fannisih" magazine, that moe fans are very poor, ignorant sodai critics; most are not intellectiials, cmd most are highly resistant to actual changes in ideas. The significance of latent and manifest fimctions lies in the fact that it enables one to systematically analyze fan maigazines, fans and their shoitoomings. By examining what Merton 'has called "seemingly irrational social patterns," it is quite probable that the sociologist can assimilate and analyze various ethnocentrisms of fandom. And the persistence of anti-intellectualism is merely a vindication of the worthless nature of so many fan magazines. I suggest titat Mr. Carter do a little more studying, and a little less excited chatter, in order to present a mature picture to, hoplefully, the mature audience of Mr. PohFs magazines. -- Leslie A. Reece, # Wainright Drive, Bakersfield, California.    Dear Editor: I just want to let you know that, in my opinion, you are the best sf magazine around. With stories like The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, Neutron Star land Skylark DuQuesne, how can you be beat? I remember a story, a long short story or a short novelette, that involved an invader from outer space. There was an astronomer, I think, who discovered a body entering the Solar System that would destroy the earth. It had a satellite that would be retained by the sun after Terra's demise. The plan was to go over to the satellite by spaceship and thus save some of the human race. It ended right after they landed on the satellite and saw a road stretching into the distance. I wonder if someone would tell me the name, author andor if there was a sequel. Congratulations on your Hugo. -- Cliff Story, #I Auwinala Road, Kailua, Hawaii #. # Sounds like Balmer  Wylie's When Worlds Collide, And there was a sequel: After Worlds Collide , -- Editor,    Dear Editor: My sincerest apologies to Brother Ron Smith in the December ish. Unfortunately, I was not aware that another one of Mr. Plachta's little gems was going to be presented in the same issue with my letter. However, I have a little consolation : at least the two stories are both by the same author. However, I hope Brother Smith will note my prophetic prediction in my same letter. In it, I said that I felt that it was high time IP received a Hugo. Well, shades of Klonos, what happens at the World SF-Con but that best of all magazines, IF, pops up and wins the Hugo for best pro magazine? If that isn't psi, what is? The stories that you've been featuring in IF lately have been showing a slow but upgrading as to quality. Of course a few clinkers do slip in occasionally, but that happens in the best of magazines. Then, on the plus side, some of the really good stories, Hugo material, have been appearing regularly. Keep up the good work! I am still crusading, as always, for better exterior and to a lesser degree, interior art. Those horrible atrocities that have been gettilig out on your covers are giving the prospective buyers a false impresIF sion of what is inside. Since this is the end of the year, a little bit of review might be in order. The real clunker in cover art appeared on (have to let my computer warm up here) bop, zing popapop here it is: the April and May IFs and the January '# Worlds of Tomorrow. Your best efforts, as usual come from Galaxy. The April and December covers deserve awards for possibly the best cover art of the year in sf-dom. The December cover especially, for its realistic portrayal of a Door Traveler. I've been debating with myself for a long time : is that figure a photo or not? It seems so lifelike.If you can make the cover art on Galaxy so good, covers are always so mediocre or just plain bad? How about some more Morrow and Emsh and Finlay doing the interior? These three can really wield a pen. planning to put out another magazine. This puzzled me muchly as I to be taken off the stands. You left out of the Christmas package advertisement in Galaxy. It was the first time in three years that there with this new news, I suppose I can rest safely. Since you are continarticles and the Philip J. Farmer Riverworld series will also continue with it. By the way, how many more Riverworld stories are there? And is there any paperback or hardback publication planned soon? I'm glad to see that IF is getting some of the big names in sf back that haven't been putting out lately. Like Asimov, who has to be one of the greatest ever. And your March issue sounds like it may win a Hugo itself. That other magazine that is in the making, will you by any chance edit it yourself? If you do, I feel that you might be spreading yourself a little thin. After all, not even Hugo Gernsback ever managed four magazines at the same time! You might achieve the same effect if you added more pages to the three Galaxy magazines, improve the format and just use the money for the #th magazine to improve the nowexisting three. Congratulations on what has to be the biggest discovery of a sf writer in the sixties! Who? Larry Niven, of course. Outside of Philip K. Dick, there isn't ansrone who is as prolific as Niven. Nearly every magazine on the stands has one of his stories. Happily, most of them have appeared in your magazines. Niven's work is plausible, sensible, and most of all, scientifically correct. Which isn't an oddity today in what might be called "The Science Conscious Age of SF," but is still rare enough that it makes his stories stand out. Keep him with you and without a doubt, he will make it as big, if not bigger than Keith Laumer and the notoriously, famous Retief. One more thing. My friend in Houston, Texas, who is president of the local sf club, would like to invite any interested fan in the Houston area to contact him so they can get in on the sf-ly doings of the Houston Science Fiction Society. Contact Randy Richmond at # Shadow Wood Drive. -- Drake Maynard, # Plymouth Road, Rocky Mount, N.C. #. #    Dear Editor: Winning that Hugo must have  #I inspired the staff to even greater efforts at improving If, It makes Galaxy seem stale and repetitious in comparison. (Jack Vance's Palace of Love was a pallid disappointment.) The special March issue was excellent. Even the art work has been a bit better. Compliments to prolific Larry Niven for all that quality hard SF he's been producing. Algis Budry's Iron Thom was colorful but ended poorly. Please dissuade Keith Laumer from writing Retief stories for a while. If you're really going to start an "Idea Mart," may I submit a longcherished premise? Why doesn't someone base an alternate history series on the absence of Mohammed? This single difference could have drastically changed our world. For instance, picture western civilization today had Europe been spared centuries of barbaric isolation during the Dark Ages. Such speculations comprise the celebrated Pirenne Thesis. This has been the subject of many scholarly publications which would aid the author in his extrapolations. At the risk of starting an argument, may I suggest that ihistory provides a better background for enjoying SF than science? But then I'm prejudiced, being a medievalist. -- Sandra L. Miesel, # Independence Drive, IndianapoMs, Indiana.    Dear Fred; I have a question which has me on the roies. It comes from a Washington reader who remembers reading The First Men in the Moon as it appeared in the Strand Magazine in his early teens, and it has to do with what I thought was an H. G. Wells story called The Anticipator, But I have just been through the # volume edition of Wells in the local library and can't find it. The story I , remember is about two authors, one of whom finds that another always beats him to the publishers with new ideas. So he plans to kill him, but of course is anticipated even in this. I remember that the last sentence contains the phrase, "The anticipator, horribly afraid" -- referring to the murderer as he runs away from the scene of the crime. I leave for England next week and will tackle some Wells experts there. If you solve the mystery perhaps you would write me. -- Arthur C. Clarke. O Anybody got the answer? We'll pass it on to Clarke... always providing we can locate him as he jets about the world, tying up the loose ends on his forthcoming spectacular movie called #I : A Space Odyssey, And that ties up most of our own loose ends this month. We're hoping to jet partway around the world in a few weeks to visit the city of Trieste and take in their V Festival Intemazionale del Film di Fantascienza -- fifth annual science-fiction film festival, that is. It runs from July #th to #th; looks interesting, and we'll let you know what turns up when we get back. Meanwhile, if you happen to find yourself in the vicinity of the Jugolav-Italian border around then, why not drop in? It's been a while since we mentioned it, but we're still running at least one "first" story in every issue -- that's to say, a first appearance by someone who has never sold a science-fiction story before. This month's is Family Loyalty by Stan Elliott. Next month -- Well, why not come around next month and see? -- The Editor IF () o o o o o o Oooo O O O y O O # # # # No. GM-# by Cullen Rapp # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. No. CX-#by Lynd Ward won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! No. CF-# by Emsh No. CF-# by Emsh The umpteenth corollary of FInagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! Order from Galaxy #I Hudson street. New Vorkis. n.y. mg cosis as paymenc m luii. E orivilece cuaranteed. o; For sixteen years ular feature. Now in hardbound book form. The first of a seriesupdated and divided by subjects into separate books. Facts and figures as can write them. Send today. Satisfaction guaranteed. WORLDS OF A New "Riverworld" Novel by Keith i-amrr grr -- ,  Lin Carter, mg costs as payment m lun E For sixteen years ular feature. Now in hardbound book form. The first of a seriesupdated and divided by subjects into separate books. Facts and figures as can write them. Send today. Satisfaction guaranteed. privilege guaranteed VoL #, No. # Frederik Pohl, Editor -- David Perfon, Production Manager Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by Andrew J. Offutt by C. C. MacApp by Alan Dirkson by Philip Jose Farmer by Keith Laumer by E. A. Walton by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter ' IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A, by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # IF  Editorial T he other day we went to the Boskone -- which, in Bciencefictionese, means both Doc Smith's legendary enemy of the Lensmen ings were, including a talk on artiMinsky (for our money, the computer theorist of the decade), presentation of the E. E. Smith Memorial Award for # to Isaac Asimov (who didn't expect it and was a study in consternation; last year, when it went to the undersigned, we hadn't been tipped off ahead of time either, and we can't help thinking that one of these years the Boston fans will have their nicely engraved trophy all ready -- and no one there to give it to, because the fellow it was meant for caught an early plane home!), a most useful and constructive talk by Guest of Honor Damon Knight (of which you'll hear more in a later issue) and so on... Including a hands-across-the-sea debate on that frothy development in science-fiction critical circles, the New Wave of British Science Fiction. T  start with, what is this new British wave? To explain it to us, half a dozen science-fiction writers had gathered in London a few weeks earlier with a tape recorder going. They were a worthy crew: Americans Judith Merrii and Tom Disch, Britons Brian W. Aldiss, Miohaei Moorcock (editor of the English sf magazine. New Worlds, which is so well thought of locally that it has received a government grant to keep it going -- a precedent which has made some of us U S. editors quietly thoughtful of late), and others as yet less well known in this country. ( Although we're hoping to bring you some of them in future issues of our new companion magazine, International Science Fiction,) These are well qualified people, all of them; but what they said left some of us on the receiving end puzzled -- and others hopping mad. Representing the American point of view were half a dozen voices, including Lester del Key, Isaac Asimov and your editor. We listened to the tape; then we talked back, with the machine now recording, so we could send our rebuttal back to England. T he New Wave of British Science Fiction, we were told by the Wollensak, lies not so much in any particular story or author as in a climate of freedom of expression and liberty to experiment unmatched anywhere else in the world. 'We're bored with trips to bloody Saturn said the voices from overseas. "We want the right to experiment, to be free, to try new forms of writing, like Burroughs." (No, not that Burroughs, author of The Naked Lunch, instead of Tarzan's Edgar Rice.) Want to experiment? Great Klono's brazen claws, yes! No kind of writing can survive without constantly reaching out for new frontiers -- of every kind: in theme, in treatment, in point of view. And experimentation in science fiction has produced some lovely results: Jack Vance and his Dragon Masters, nearly everything written by the late Cordwainer Smith, Brian Aldiss's own The Long Afternoon of Earth. But -- notice something? None of these is really new. And only one of them is Enish. However, this is not to say that there is nothing going on over there. Something is; and it is in fact producing new writers who are surely promising. Will they last? Even, will the promise mature into performance? It is too early to say for sure; but we hope so. Sometime soon we'll be bringing you some work by some of these new writers -- for instance, a rather hauntingly special complete short novel. Sunbeam Caress, by David Redd, which we ouigiht to be able to get into print, let's see, two or three issues from now. They're worthwhile. But -- There's always a but. The "but" in this case is, hut they are not the only kind of science fiction that's worthwhile. Bloody Saturn can still be fun -- and fun is one of the things that science fiction has to offer. Larry Niven or Poul Anderson can still thrill us with the sort of science-fiction color that brightens a day -- because we know they're to be trusted with the backgrounds they write about, and aren't inventing impossible worlds for the sake of a cheap effect. Hard and witty satire is still worth looking at; so is a Heinlein or Clarke detailed and lively examination of how people will live tomorrow. There are, in short, a hundred ways in which a science-fiction story can be good. What is wrong with so much of the "New Wave" is not that it is experimental in form, but that it is so damned dull in every other way. By all means experiment, fellows. But the whole idea of makiinjg an experiment is that you can't tell ahead of time whether or not it will succeed. And why do you insist on publishing your failures? I t isn't really the writers who are to blame. It's probably more the fault of the critics, who have a terrible problem. Derivative, secondorder, parasitic, they can be entertaining only when they have something entertaining to review, only fresh when they espy something fresh in what they are discussing. This is why every literature and artistic put-on of the last few decades has received its deadpan adulation from critics who don't know, or can't afford to know, that they are being taken in. Would you like to know the definition of a good science-fiction story? It is a story that, after reading, you are Iglad you read. That's all there is to all of criticism. But of course no one could build a critical career on saying that in print... -- The Editor IF  Serial The Felled Star  Every human from oil of Time lived again on Riverworld -- and died again, over and over! I poopdeck of the Dreyrugr (Bloodstained). Ari Grimolfsson, the ii'O esurrection, like politics, helmsman, not understanding EngJV makes strange bedfellows," lish, looked bleakly at Clemens. Sam Clemens said. "I can't say Clemens translated for him in that the sleeping is very restful." wretched Old Norse. The helmsman Telescope under one arm, he still looked bleak... puffed on a long, green cigar while Clemens swore loudly in English he paced back and forth on the and cursed him for a dunderheaded barbarian. For three years, Clemens had been practicing tentih-cenitury Norse night and day. And he was still only half-intelligible to most of the men and women aboard the Dreyrugr. "A ninety-five-year-old Huck Finn, give or take a few thousand years," Clemens said, "I start out down the river on a raft. Now I'm on this idiot Viking ship, going upriver. What next? Wen will I realize my dream?" Keeping the upper part of his right arm close to his body so he would not drop the precious telescope, he pounded his right fist into his open left palm. Iron! I need iron! But where on this people-rich, metal-poor planet is iron? There has to be some. Otherwise, where did Erik's axe come from? And how much is there? Enough? Probably not. Probably there's just a very small meteorite. But maybe there's enough for what I want. But where? My God, the long! The iron, if any, may be at the other end. "No, that can't be! It has to be somewhere not too far away, within # miles of here. But we may be going in the wrong direction. Ignorance, the mother of hysteria  He looked through the telescope at the right bank and cursed again. Despite his pleas to bring the ship in closer so that he could scan the faces at a closer range, he had been refused. The king of the Norseman fleet, Eric Bloodaxe, said that this was hostile territory. Until the fleet was out of it, the fleet would stay close to the middle of the river. The Dreyrugr was the flagship of three, all alike. It was eighty feet long, built largely of bamboo and resembled a Viking dragonboat. It had a long low hull, an oaken figurehead carved into a dragon's head, and a curled-tail stern. But it also had a raised foredeck and poopdeck, the sides of both extending out over the water. The two bamboo masts were fore-and-aft rigged, the sails a very thin but tough and flexible membrane, made from the stomach of the deep-dwelling "riverdragon" fish. There was also a rudder controlled by a wheel on the poopdeck. The round leather-and-oak shields of the crew hung over the sides; the great oars were piled on racks. The Dreyrugr was sailing against the wind, tacking back and forth, a maneuver unknown to the Norsemen when they had lived on Earth. The men and women of the crew not handling the ropes sat on the oarsmen benches and talked and threw dice and played poker. From below the poopdeck came cries of exultation or curses and an occasional faint click. Bloodaxe and his bodyguard were shooting pool, and their doing so at this time made Clemens very nervous. Bloodaxe knew that enemy ships three miles up the river were putting out to intercept them, and ships from both banks behind them were putting out to trail them. Yet the king was pretending to be very cool. Maybe he was actually undisturbed, as Drake had supposedly been just before the battle of the Great Armada. "But the conditions are different here," Clemens muttered. "Hiere's not much room to maneuver on a river only a mile and a half wide. And no storm is going to help us out." He swept the bank with the telescope as he had been doing ever since the fleet set out three years ago. He was of medium height and had a big head that made his nonetoo-broad shoulders look even more narrow. His eyes were blue; his eyebrows, shaggy; his nose, Roman. His hair was long and reddish brown. His face was innocent of the mustache that had been so well known during his terrestrial life. Men had been resurrected without face hair. His chest was a sea of brown-red curly hair that lapped at the hollow of his throat. He wore only a knee-length white towel secured at the waist, a leather belt for holding weapons and the sheath for his telescope, and leather slippers. His skin was bronzed by the equatorial sun. He removed the telescope from his eye to look at the enemy ships trailing by a mile. As he did so, he saw something flash in the sky. It was a curving sword of white, suddenly appearing as if unsheathed from the blue. It stabbed downwards and then was gone behind the mountains. S am was startled. He had seen many small meteorites in the night sky but never a large one. Yet so brightly burned this one that it left an afterimage on his eyes for a second or two. Then the image faded, and Sam forgot about the falling star.  He scanned the bank again with his telescope. This part of the River had been typical. On each side of the mileand-a-half-wide river was a mileand-a-half-wide grassgrown plain. On each bank, huge mushroom-shaped stone structures, the grailstones, were spaced a mile apart. Trees were few on the plains, but the foothills were thick with pine, oak, yew and the irontree, a thousandfoot-high plant with gray bark, enormous elephant-ear leaves, hundreds of thick gnarly branches, roots so deep and wood so hard that the tree could not be cut, burned or dug out. Vines bearing large flowers of many bright colors grew over the branches. There was a mile or two of foothills, and then the abruptness of smooth-sided mountains, towering from # to # feet. They were unscalable past the #-foot mark and forced the traveler to follow the river valley if he wished to get to his goal. The area through which the three Norse boats were sailing was inhabited largely by early nineteenthcentury Germans. There was the usual ten per cent population from another place and time of Earth. Here, the ten per cent was firstcentury Persians. And there was also the ubiquitous one per cent of seemingly random choices from any time and anyplace. The telescope swung past the bamboo huts on the plains and the faces of the people. The men were clad only in various towels; the IF women, in short towel-like skirts and thin cloths around the breasts. There were many gathered on the bank, apparently to watch the battle. They carried flint-tipped spears and bows and arrows but were not in martial array. Clemens grunted suddenly and held the telescope on the face of a man. At this distance and with the weak power of the instrument, he could not clearly see the man's features. But the wide-shouldered body and dark face suggested familiarity. Where had he seen that face before? Then it struck him. The man looked remarkably like the photographs of the famous English explorer Sir Richard Burton that he'd seen on Earth. Rather, there was something suggestive of the man. Clemens sighed and turned the eyepiece to the other faces as the ship took him away. He would never know the true identity of the fellow. He would have liked to put ashore and talk to him, find out if he really were Burton. In the twenty years of life on this riverfaces, Clemens had not yet met one person he had known on Earth. He did not know Burton personally, but he was sure that Burton must have heard of him. This man -- if he were Burton -- would be a link, if thin, to the dead Earth. And then, as a far-off blurred figure came within the roimd of the telescope, Clemens cried out incredulously. "Livy! Oh, my God! Livy!" T here could be no doubt. Although the features could not be clearly distinguished, they formed an overwhelming, not-to-be-denied truth. The head, the hairdo, the figure and the unmistakable walk (as unique las a fingerprint) shouted out that here was his Earthly wife. "Livy!" he sobbed. The ship heeled to tack, and he lost her. Frantically, he swung the end of the scope back and forth. Eyes wide, he stomped with his foot on the deck, and he bellowed, "Bloodaxe! Bloodaxe! Up here! Hurry!" He swung towards the helmsman and shouted that he should go back and direct the ship toward the bank. Grimolfsson was taken aback at first by Clemens's vehemence. Then he slitted his eyes, shook his head, and growled out a no. "I order you to!" Clemens screamed, forgetting that the helmsman did not understand English. "That's my wife! Livy! My beautiful Livy, as she was when she was twenty-five! Brought back from the dead!" Someone rumbled behind him, and Clemens whirled to see a blond head with a shorn-off left ear appear on the level of the deck. Then Erik Bloodaxe's broad shoulders, massive chest and huge biceps came into view, followed by pillarlike thighs as he came on up the ladder. He wore a green-and-black checked towel, a broad belt holding several chert knives and a holster for his axe. This was of steel, broadbladed and with an oak handle. It was, as far as Clemens knew, unique on this planet, where stone and wood were the only materials for weapons. He frowned as he looked over the river. He turned to Clemens and said, "What is it, sma-skitligr? You made me miscue when you screamed like Thor's bride on her wedding night. I lost a cigar to Toki Njalsson." He took the axe from its holster and swung it. The sun glinted off the blue steel. "You had better have a good reason for disturbing me. I have killed many men for far less." Clemens's face was pale beneath the tan, but this time it was not caused by Erik's threat. He glared, the wind-ruffled hair, staring eyes and aquiline profile making him look like a kestrel falcon. "To hell with you and your axe!" he shouted. "I just saw my wife, Livy, there on the right bank! I want... I demand... that you take me ashore so I can be with her again! Oh, God, after all these years, all this hopeless searching! It'll only take a minute! You can't deny me this; you'd be inhuman to do so!" The axe whistled and sparkled. The Norseman grinned. "All this fuss for a woman? What about herT And he gestured at a small dark woman standing near the great pedestal and tube of the rocketlauncher. C lemens became even paler. He said, 'Temah is a fine girl! I'm very fond of her! But she's not Livy!" "Enough of this," Bloodaxe said. "Do you take me to be as big a fool as you? If I put into shore, we'd be caught between the ground and river forces, ground like meal in Freyr's mill. Forget about her." Clemens screamed like a falcon and launched himself, arms out and flapping, at the Viking. Erik brought the flat of the axe against Clemens's head and knocked him to the deck. For several minutes, Clemens lay on his back, eyes open and staring at the sun. Blood seeped from the roots of the hair falling down over his face. Then he got to all-fours and began to vomit. Erik gave an impatient order. Temah, her face drawn, eyes looking sidewise with fright at Erik, dipped a bucket at the end of a rope into the river. She threw the water over Clemens, who sat up and then wobbled to his feet. Temah drew another bucket and washed off the deck. Clemens snarled at Erik. Erik laugjhed and said, "Little coward, you've been talking too big for too long! Now, you know what happens when you talk to Erik Bloodaxe as if he were a thrall. Consider yourself lucky. I did not kill you." Clemens spun away from Erik, staggered to the railing, and began to climb upon it. "Livy!" he called. Swearing, Bloodaxe ran after him, seized him around the waist, and dragged him back. Then he pushed Clemens so heavily that Clemens fell on the deck again. "You're not deserting me at this time!" Erik said. "I need you to find that iron mine!" IF "There isn... " Clemens said and then closed his mouth tightly. Let the Norseman find out that he did not know where the mine -- if there was a mine -- was located, and he would be killed on the sipot. "Moreover," Erik continued cheerfully, "after we find the iron, I may need you to help us towards the Polar Tower, although I think I can get there just by following the river. But you have much knowledge that I need. And I can use that frost giant, Joe Miller." "Joe!" Clemens said in a thick voice. He tried to get back onto his feet. "Joe Miller! Where's Joe? He'll kill you!" The axe cut the air above Clemens's head. "You will tell Joe nothing of this, do you hear? I swear by Odin's blind socket, I will get to you and kill you before he can put a hand on me. Do you hear?" Clemens got to his feet and swayed for a minute. Then he called, in a louder voice, "Joe! Joe Miller!" II A voice from below the poopdeck muttered. It was so deep that it made the hairs on the backs of men's necks rise even after hearing it for the thousandth time. The stout bamboo ladder creaked beneath a weight, creaked so loudly it could be heard above the sing of wind through leather ropes, flapping of membranous sails, grind of wooden joints, shouts of crew, the hiss of water against the hull. The head that rose above the edge of the deck was even more frightening than the inhumanly deep voice. It was large as a halfpohy of beer and was all bars and arches and shelves and flying buttresses of bone beneath a pinkish and loose skin. Bone circled eyes, smallseeming and dark blue. The nose was inappropriate to the rest of his features, since it should have been flat-bridged and flaring-nostrilled. Instead, it was the monstrous and comical travesty on the human nose that the probcis monkey sihows to a laughing world. In its lengthy shadow was a long upper lip, like a chimpanzee's or comic-strip Irishman's. The lips were thin and protruded, shoved out by the convex jaws beneath. His shoulders made Erik Bloodaxe's look like pretzels. Ahead of him he pushed a great paunch, a balloon trying to rise from the body to which it was anchored. His legs and arms seemed short; they were so out of proportion to the long trunk. The juncture of thigh and body was level with Sam Clemens's chin, and his arms, extended, could hold, and had held, Clemens out at arm's length in the air for an hour without a tremor. He wore no clothes nor did he need them for modesty's sake, though he had not known modesty until taught by homo sapiens. Long, rusty-red hair, thicker than a man's, less dense than a chimpanzee's, was plastered to the body by his sweat. The skin beneath the hairs was the dirty-pink of a blond Noric. He ran a hand the size of an unabridged dictionary through the wavy, msty-red hair tihait began an inch above the eyes and slanted back rapidly. He yawned and showed teeth that were human-seeming except for the two five-inch long, tigerish canines. "I vath thleeping," he rumbled, "I vath dreaming of Earth, of klravulthithmengbhabafving -- vhat you call mammothth. Thothe vere the good old dayth." He shuffled forward, then stopped. "Tham! Vhat happened! You're bleeding! You look thick!" Bellowing for his guards, Erik Bloodaxe stepped backwards from the titanthrop. "Your friend went mad! He thought he'd seen his wife -- for the thousandth time -- and he attacked me because I wouldn't take him in to the bank to her; Tyr's testicles, Joe! You know how many times he's thought he saw that woman, and how many times we stopped, and how many times it always turned out to be a woman who looked something like his woman but wasn't! "This time, I said no! Even if it had been his women, I would have said no! We'd be putting our heads in the wolfs mouth!" Erik crouched, axe lifted, ready to swing at the giant. Shouts came from middeck, and a big redhead with a flint axe ran up the ladder. The helmsman gesfured for him to leave. The redhead, seeing Joe Miller so belligerant, did not hesitate to retreat. "Vhat you thay, Tham?" Miller said. "Thyould I tear him apart?" Clemens held his head in both hands and said, "No. He's right. I suppose. I don't really know if she was Livy. Probably just a German hausfrau? I don't know!" He groaned. "I don't know! Maybe it was her!" Wooden horns blared, and a huge drum on the middeck thundered. Sam Clemens said, "Forget about this, Joe, until we get through the straits -- if we do get through! If we're to survive, we'll have to fight together. Later..." "You alvayth thay later, Tham, but there never ith a later. Vhy?" "If you can't figure diat out, Joe, you're as dumb as you look!" Clemens snapped. Tearshields glinted in Joes's eyes, and his bulging cheeks became wet. "Every time you get thcared, you call me dumb," he said. "Vhy take it out on me? Vhy not on the people that thcare you, vhy not on Bloodakthe?" "I apologize, Joe," Clemens said. "Out of the mouths of babes and apemen... You're not so dumb, you're pretty smart. Forget it, Joe. I'm sorry." Bloodaxe swaggered up to them but kept out of Joe's reach. He grinned as he swung his axe. "There shall soon be a meeting of the metair And then he laughed and said, "What am I saying? Battle any more is the meeting of stone and wood, except for my star-axe, of course! But what does that matter? I have grown tired of these six months of peace. I need the cries of war, the whistling spear, the chunk of my sharp steel biting into flesh, the spurt of blood. I have become as impatient as a penned-up stallion IF who smells a mare in heat; I would mate with Death." "Bull!" Joe Miller said. "You're jutht ath bad ath Tham in your vay. You're thcared, too, but you cover it up vith your big mouth." "I do not understand your mangled speech," Bloodaxe said. "Apes should not attempt the tongue of man." "You understand me all right," Joe said. "Keep quiet, Joe," Clemens said. He looked upriver. Two miles away, the plains on each side of the river dwindled away as the mountains curved inwards to create straits not more than a quarter-mile wide. The water boiled at the bottom of the cliffs, which were perhaps # feet high. On the cliff-tops, on both sides, unidentified objects glittered in the sun. A half-mile below the straits, thirty galleys had formed three crescents. And, aided by the swift current and sixty oars each, they were speeding towards the three intruders. Clemens viewed them through his telescope and then said, "Each has about forty warriors aboard and two rocket-launchers. We're in a hell of a trap. And our own rockets have been in storage so long, the powder's likely to be crystallized. They'll go off in the tubes and blow us to kingdom come. "And those things on top of the cliffs. Apparatus for projecting Greek fire?" A man brought the king's armor: a triple-layered leather helmet with imitation leather wings and a nosepiece, a leather cuirass, leather breeches and a shield. Another man brought a bundle of spears: yew shafts and flint tips. The rocket crew, all women, placed a projectile in the swivable launching tube. The rocket was six feet long, not counting the guidestick, built of bamboo, and looked exactly like a Fourth of July rocket. Its warhead contained twenty pounds of black gunpowder in which were many tiny chips of stone: shrapnel. J oe Miller, the deck creaking beneath his # pounds, went below to get his armor and weapons. Clemens put on a helmet and slung a shield over his shoulder, but he would not use a cuirass or leggings. Although he feared wounds, he was even more frightened of drowning because of the heavy armor if he fell into the river. Clemens thanked whatever gods there were that he had been lucky enough to fall in with Joe Miller. They were blood-brothers now -- even if Clemens had fainted during the ceremony, which demanded mingling of blood and some even more painful and repulsive acts. Miller was to defend him, and Clemens was to defend Miller to the death. So far, the 'titanthrop had done all the battling. But then he was more than big enough for two. Bloodaxe's dislike of Miller was caused by envy. Bloodaxe fancied himself as the world's greatest fighter and yet knew that Miller would have no more trouble dispatching him in combat than Miller would with a dog. And with a small dog at that. Erik Bloodaxe gave his battle orders, which were transmitted to the other two ships by flashes of sunlight off obsidian mirrors. The ships would keep sails up and try to steer between the galleys. This would be difficult because a ship might have to change course to avoid ramming and so lose the wind. Also, each ship would thrice be subjected to crossfire. "The wind's with them," Clemens said. "Their rockets will have more range until we're among them." "Teach your grandmother to suck..." Bloodaxe said and stopped. Some bright objects on the clifftops had left their positions and now were swooping through the air in a path that would bring them close above the Vikings. The Norsemen shouted with bewilderment and alarm, but Clemens recognized them as gliders. In as few words as possible, he explained to Bloodaxe. The king started to relay the information to the other Vikings but had to stop because the lead galleys fired off the first volley of rockets. Wobbling, trailing thick black smoke, ten rockets arced towards the three sailships. These changed course as quickly as possible, two almost colliding. Some of the rockets almost struck the masts or the hulls, but none hit and all splashed unexploded, falling into the river. By then the first of the gliders made its pass. Slim-fuselaged, longwinged, with black Maltese crosses on the sides of its slim and silvery fuselage, it dived at a #degree angle towards the Dreyrugr, The Norsemen archers bent their yew bows an#, at a command from the chief archer, loosed their shafts. The glider swooped low over the water, several arrows sticking out of the fuselage, and it settled down for a landing on the river. It had failed to drop its bombs on the Dreyrugr. They were somewhere below the surface. But now other gliders were coming in at all three ships, and the enemy lead galleys had loosed another flight of rockets. Clemens glanced at their own rocket-launcher. The big blonde crew-women were swiveling the tube under the command of small dark Temah, but she was not ready to touch the fuse yet. The Dreyrugr was not yet within range of the nearest galley. For a second, everything was as if suspended in a photograph: the two gHders, their wingtips only two feet apart, pulling up out of the dive and the small black bombs dropping towards the decks of their targets, the arrow halfway towards the gliders, the German rockets halfway toward the Viking ships, on the downcurve of their arcs. Clemens felt the sudden push of wind behind him, a whistling, an explosion as the sails took the full impact of air and rolled the ship over sharply on its longitudinal axis. There was a tearing sound as if the fabric of the world were being ripped apart; a cracking as if great axes had slammed into the masts. T he bombs, the gliders, the rockets, the arrows were lifted upIF wards and backwards, turned upside down. The sails and masts left the ship as if they had been launched from tubes and soared away. The ship, released from the push of sail, rolled back to horizontal from an almost #-degree angle to the river. Clemens was saved from flying off the deck in the first slam of wind only because the titanthrop had seized the wheel with one hand and clutched him with the other. The helmsman had also clung to the wheel. The rocket crew, their shrieks carried upriver by the wind, mouths open, hair whipping, flew like birds from the ship, soared and then splashed into the river. The rocket tube tore loose from its pedestal and followed them. Bloodaxe had grabbed the railing with one hand and kept hold of his precious steel weapon with the other. While the ship rocked back and forth, he managed to stick the axehandle in the holster and then to cling to the railing with both hands. It was well for him that he did, because the wind was screaming like a woman fallmg off a cliff and shoving powerfully at him. Within a few seconds, a hot blast tore at the ship, and Clemens was as deafened and as seared as if he were standing near a rocket blast. A great swell of riverwater lifted the ship high. Clemens opened his eyes and then screamed but could not hear his own voice because of his stunned ears. A wall of dirty brown water, at least fifty feet high, was racing around the curve of the valley between four and five miles away. He wanted to close his eyes again but could not. He continued to gaze with his lids rigid until the elevated sea was a mile away. Then he could make out the individual trees, the giant pines, oaks, and yews scattered along the front of the wave, and, as it got closer, pieces of bamboo and pine houses, a roof somehow still intact, a shattered hull with a half mast, the sperm-whalesized, dark-gray body of a riverdragon fish, plucked from the fivehundred feet depths of the river. Terror numbed him. He wanted to die to escape the death. But he could not, and so he watched with frozen eyes and congealed mind as the ship, instead of being drowned and smashed beneath hundreds of thousands of gallons of water, rose up and up and up on the slope of the wave, up and up, the dirty brown wreckage-strewn cliff towering above, always threatening to avalanche down upon the ship, and the sky above, now turned from bright noon-blue to gray. Then they were on the top, poised for a downward slide, rocked, dipped, and went down towards the trough. Smaller waves, but still huge, fell over the boat. A body landed on the deck near Clemens, a body catapulted from the raging waters. Clemens stared at it with only a spark of comprehension. He was too iced with terror to feel any more; he had reached the limits. And so he stared at Livy's body, smashed on one side but untouch on the other side! It was Livy, his wife, that he had seen. IF Then another wave that almost tore him and the titanthrop loose struck the deck. The helmsman screamed as he lost his grip and followed the woman's corpse overboard. The boat, sliding upwards from the depths of the trough, turned to present its broadside to the wave. But the boat continued to soar upwards, though it tilted so that Miller and Clemens were hanging from the stump of the wheel's base as if they were dangling from a tree trunk on the face of a mountain. Then the boat rolled back to horizontal position as it raced down the next valley. Bloodaxe had lost his grip and was shot across the deck and would have gone over the other side if the ship had not righted itself in time. Now he clung to the port railing. On top of the third wave, the Dreyrugr sped slantwise down the mountain of water. It struck the broken forepart of another vessel, shuddered, and Bloodaxe's grip was town loose by the impact. He spun along the railing, hit the other railing on the edge of the poopdeck, shattered it, and went on over the edge and below to the middeck. Thereafter, Clemens did not see him. Ill N ot until morning of the next day did Sam Clemens thaw out of his shock. The Dreyrugr had somehow ridden out the great waves long enough to go slanting across the plains on the shallower but rough waters. It had been shot past hills and through a narrow pass into a small canyon at the base of the mountain. And as the waters subsided from beneath it, the boat had settled with a crash into the ground. The crew lay in terror thick as cold mud while the river and wind raged and the sky remained the winds ceased. Rather the downriver winds stopped, and the normal soothing wind from upriver resumed. Some of the men and women began to stir and to ask questions. Sam felt as if he could barely force the words out through a numbed mouth. Stammering, he told them of the flash he had seen in the sky fifteen minutes before the winds struck. Somewhere down the valley, maybe two hundred miles away, a giant meteorite had struck. The winds created by the heat of passage through the air and by the displacement of air by the meteorite, the shock waves caused by the impact, had generated those giant waves. Terrible as they were, they must have been pygmies compared to those nearer the point of impact. Actually, the Dreyrugr was in the outer edge of the fury. "It had quit being mad and was getting downright jovial when we met it," Sam said. Some of the Norse got unsteadily to their feet and tottered across the deck. Some belowdecks stuck their heads out of the hatches. Bloodaxe was hurting from his roll across the deck, but he managed to roar, "Everybody belowdecks! There will be another great flood, much worse than this one, when the waves caused by the falling star hitting the earth reach us!" Sam did not like Bloodaxe, to put it mildly, yet he had to admit that the Norwegian was bright enough when it came to the ways of water. He himself had supposed that the first waves would be the last. The crew lay down in the hold wherever they could find space and something stable to hang onto, and they waited. Sometime during the night, the earth rumbled and shook, and then the river struck the pass with a hiss like a fifty-foot-high cat, followed by a bellow. Borne upwards by the flood pouring through the pass, the Dreyrugr rocked and spun around and around as it rocked. Sam turned cold. He was sure that if there had been daylight, he and the others would look as grayblue as corpses. U ip the boat went, occasionally scraping against the walls of the canyon. Just as Sam was about to swear that the Dreyrugr had reached the top of the canyon and was going to be carried over its front in a cataract, the boat dropped. It sank swiftly, or so it seemed, while the waters poured out through the pass almost as quickly as they had entered. There was a crash, followed by the heavy breathing of men and women, a groan here and there, the dripping of water, and the far away roar of the receding river. It was not over yet. There was more waiting in cold numb terror until the great mass of water would rush back to fill the spaces from which i had been displaced by the blazing many hundreds of thousands of tons mass of the meteorite. They shivered as if encased in ice, although the air was far warmer than it had even been at this time of night. And for the first time in the twenty years on this planet, it did not rain at night. Before the waters struck again, they felt the shake and grumble of earth. There was a vast hiss and a roar, and again the boat rose up, spun, bumped against the walls of the canyon and then sank. This time, the ship did not strike the ground so haid, probably, Sam thought, because the boat had hit a thick layer of mud. "I don't believe in miracles," Sam whispered, "but this is one. We've no business being alive." Joe Miller, who had recovered more swiftly than the others from shock, returned from a scouting trip. He carried in his arms the naked body of a man. His burden was, however, alive. He had blond hair under the mud-streaks, a handsome face and blue-gray eyes. He said something in German to Clemens and then managed to smile after he had been deposited gently on the deck. "I found him in hith glider," Joe said. "Vhat vath left of it, that ith. There'th a number of corptheth loutthide thith canyon. Vhat you vant to do vith him?" "Make friends with him," Clemens croaked. "His people are gone; this area is cleaned out." IF He shuddered. Tlie image of Livy's body placed on the deck like a mocking gift, the wet hair plastered over one side of her smashed face, the one dark eye staring darkly at him, was getting more vivid and more painful. He felt like sobbing but could not and was glad of it. Weeping would make him fall apart into a cone of ashes. Later, when he had the strength to stand it, he would weep. So near... The blond man sat up on the deck. He shivered uncontrollably and said, in British English, "I'm cold." Miller went belowdecks and brought up dried fish, acorn bread, bamboo tips and cheese. The Vikings had stored food to eat when they were in hostile areas where they were forbidden to use their grails. "That thtupid ath, Bloodakthe, ith thtill alive," Miller said. "He'th got theme broken ribth and he'th a meth of bruitheth and cutth. But hith big mouth ith in perfect working order. Vouldn't you know it?" A fter he had eaten, Clemens began crying. Joe Miller wept with him and blew his huge proboscis. "There," he said, "I feel much better. I never been tho thscared in all my life. Vhen I thaw that vater, like all the mammothth in the vorld thtampeding towardth uth, I thought. Good-by, Joe. Good-by, Tham. I'll vake up thomevhere along the river in a new body, but I'll never thee you again, Tham. Only I vath too terrified to feel thad about it. Yethuth, I vath thcared!" The young stranger introduced himself. He was Lothar von Richthofen, glider pilot, captain of the Luftwaffe of his Imperial Majesty, Kaiser Alfred the First of New Prussia. "We've passed a hundred New Prussias in the last ten thousand miles," Clemens said. "All so small you couldn't stand in the middle of one and heave a brick without it landing in the middle of the next. But most of them weren't as belligerent as yours. They'd let us land and charge our grails, especially after we'd shown them what we had to trade for use of the stones." "Trade?" "Yes. We didn't trade goods, of course, because all the freighters of old Earth couldn't carry enough to last out a fraction of the river. We traded ideas. For one thing, we show these people how to build pool tables and how to make a hair-setting spray from fish-glue, deodorized." The Kaiser of this area had been, on Earth, a Count von Waldersee, a German field marshal, bom #, died #. Clemens nodded, saying, "I remember reading about his death in the papers and having great satisfaction because I had outlived another contemiorary. That was one of the few genuine and free pleasures of life. But since you know how to fly, you must be a twentiethcentury German, right?" Lother von Richthofen gave a brief summary of his life. He had flown a fighter plane for Germany in the Weltkrieg. His brother had been the greatest of aces on either side during that war. "World War I or II?" Clemens said. He had met enough #th-centurians to know some facts -- and fancies -- about events after his death in #. V on Richthofen added more details. He had been in World War I. He himself had fought under his brother and had accounted for forty Allied planes. In #, while flying an American film actress and her manager from Hamburg to Berlin, the plane had crashed and he had died. "The luck of Lothar von Richthofen deserted me," he said. "Or so I thought then." He laughed. "But here I am, twenty-five years old in body again, and I missed the sad things about growing old, when women no longer look at you, when wine makes you weep instead of laugh and makes your mouth sour with the taste of impotence and every day is one day nearer to death. "And my luck held out again when that meteorite struck. My glider lost its wings at the first blow of wind, but instead of falling, I floated in my fuselage, turning over and over, dropping, rising again, falling, until I was deposited as lightly as a sheet of paper upon a hill. And when the backflood came, the fuselage was borne by the water and I was nuzzled gently against the foot of the mountain. A miracle!" "A miracle: a chance distribution of events, occurring one time in a giant meteor caused that flood?" "I saw its flash, the trail of burning air. It must have crashed far away, fortunaftly for us." They climbed down from the ship and slogged through the thick mud to the canyon entrance. Joe Miller heaved logs that a team of draft horses would have strained to pull. He shoved aside others, and the three went down through the foothills and to the plains. Others followed them. They were silent now. The land had been scoured free of trees except for the great irontrees. So deeply rooted were these that most stiU stood upright. Moreover, where the mud had not settled, there was grass. It was a testimony to the toughness and steadfast-rootedness of the water had not been able to rip out the topsoil. Here and there was the flotsam left by the backflood. Corpses of men and women, broken timber, towels, grails, a dugout, uprooted pines and oaks and yews. The great mushroom-shaped grailstones, spaced a mile apart along the banks on both sides, were also unbroken and unbent, although many were almost buried in mud. "The rains will eventually take care of the mud," Clemens said. "The land slopes towards the river." He avoided the corpses. They filled him with a prickly loathing. Besides, he was afraid that he might see Livy's body again. He did not think he could stand it; he would go mad. "One thing sure," Sam Clemens said. "There'll be nobody between IF US and the meteorite. We'll have first claim on it, and then it'll be up to us to defend all that treasure of iron from the wolves that will come loping on its scent. "Would you like to join up? If you stick with me, you'll have an airplane some day, not just a glider." V on Richthofen was more than curious, Sam explained a little about his Dream. And he told a little about Joe Miller's story of the Misty Tower. "It's only possible with a great deal of iron," he said. "And much hard work. These Vikings aren't capable of helping me build a steamboat. I need technical knowledge they don't have. But I was using them to get me to a possible source of iron. I had hoped that there might be enough ore from which Erik's axe was made for my purpose. I used their greed for the metal, and also Miller's story, to launch them on this expedition. "Now, we don't have to search. We know where there must be more than enough. All we have to do is dig it up, melt it, refine it, shape it into the forms we need. And protect it. I won't string you along with a tale of easy accomplishment. It may take years before we can complete the boat, and it'll be damn hard work doing it." Lothar's face blazed with a spark caught from Clemens's few words. "It's a noble, magnificent dream!" he said. "Yes, I'd like to join you. I'll pledge my honor to follow you until we storm Misty Tower! On my word as a gentleman and officer, on the blood of the barons of Richthofen!" "Just give me your word as a man," Sam said drily. "What a strange -- indeed, unthinkable -- trio we make!" Lothar said. "A gigantic subhuman, who must have died at least # years before civilization. A twentiethcentury Prussian baron and aviator. A great American humorist born in #. And our crew -- " Clemens raised his thick eyebrows at the our -- "tenth-century Vikings!" "A sorry lot now," Sam said, watching Bloodaxe and the others plow through the mud. All were bruised from head to foot and many limped. "I don't feel so well myself. Have you ever watched a Japanese tenderize a dead octopus? I know how the octopus feels now. By the way, I was more than just a humorist, you know. I was a man of letters." "Ah, forgive men!" Lothar said. "I've hurt your feelings. No offense. Let me salve your injuries, Mr. Clemens, by telling you that when I was a boy, I laughed many times reading your books. And I regard your Huckleberry Finn as a great book. Although I must admit I did not care for the way you ridiculed the aristocracy in your Connecticut Yankee, Still, they were English, and you are an American." Erik Bloodaxe decided that they were too battered and weary to start the job of getting the ship down to the river that day. They would charge their grails at evening, eat, sleep, eat breakfast and then begin the backbreaking work. They went back to the p, took their grails from the hold and set them on the depressions on the flat top of a grailsitone. As the sun touched the peaks of the movmtains to the west, the men awaited the roar and the hot, blue flash from the stones. The electrical discharge would power the energy-matter converters within the false bottoms of the grail and, on opening the lids, the men would find cooked meats, vegetables, bread and butter, fruit, tobacco, dreamgum, liquor or mead. But as darkness settled over the valley, the grailstones remained silent and cold. Across the river, fire sprang up momentarily from the gallstones there, and a faint roar reached them. But the stones on the west bank, for the first time in the twenty years since the day of Resurrection, did not function. IV T he men and women felt as if God had failed them. The threetimes-a-day offering of the stones had come to seem as natural as the rising of the sun. It was some time before they could ease the sickness in their stomachs to eat the last of the fish, sprouts and cheese. Clemens was in a blue funk for a while. But von Richthofen began talking of the necessity of ferrying the grails to the other side so they could eat in the morning. Presently Clemens got up and talked to Bloodaxe. The. Norwegian was in a mood even fouler than usual, but he finally admitted that action must be taken. Joe Miller, he German, and a big redheaded Swede named Toke Kroksson trudged back up to the ship and then carried some oars back down. These three, with Clemens, took the grails across in the dugout; and Toke and Joe Miller paddled the dugout back. Miller, Clemens and von Richthofen settled down to sleep on top of a grailstone. It was clean, since the electrical discharge had burned off all the mud. "We'll have to get under the stone when the rains come," Clemens said. He lay on his back, his hands under his head, and looked up at the night sky. It was no terrestrial sky, this blaze of twenty thousand stars greater than Venus in her glory and shimmering filaments tentacling out from glittering gas clouds. Some of the stars were so bright, that they could be seen as pale phantoms even at noon. "The meteorite must have smashed some of the grailstones on the west bank," Sam Clemens said. "And so it broke the circuit. My God, what a circuit! There must hooked together, if the calculations of some are correct." "There will be a terrible conflict raging up and down the river," Lothar said. "The west bankers will attack the east bankers so they can charge their grails. What a war! I've heard that there must be about # valley. All battling to the death for food." "The hell of it ith," Joe Miller IF said, "that if half get kilt and tho there'th enough room on the grailstoneth, it von't do no good. Tventyfour hourth later, the dead vill all be alife again, and it'll all thtart over again." Sam said, "I'm not so sure. I think it's been established that the stones have something to do with the resurrections. And if half of them are out of commission, there may be a considerable cut in production on the Lazarus line. This meteorite is a saboteur from the skies." #T've thought for a long time Xthat this world, and our resurrection, are not the work of supernatural beings," von Richthofen said. "Have you heard the wild tale that's been going up and down the river? There's a story that one man woke up before Resurrection Day and found himself in a very weird around him, floating in the air, nude men, women, and children, their heads shaved, all slowly rotating under some invisible force. This man, an Englishman named Perkin, or Burton, some say, had died on Earth around #. He got loose but was intercepted by two beings -- human -- who put him back to sleep. Then he awoke, like the rest of us, on the banks of the river. "Whoever is behind all this isn't infallible. They made a mistake with Burton. He got a glimpse into preResurreotion, a stage somewhere between our death on Earth and preparation for life on this world. I don't know. It sounds fantastic, like a wish-fulfillment story. But then again..." "I've heard it," Sam Clemens, said. He thought of telling about seeing Burton's face through the telescope just before he spotted Livy's. But he had seen several faces that he had thought were Livy's, and they had turned out to be somebody else's. Moreover, the pain of thinking about her was too much for him. He sat up and cursed and shook his fist at the stars and then began to weep. Joe Miller, squatting behind him, reached a gigantic hand out and touched him softly on the shoulder. Von Richthofen, embarrassed, looked the other way. Presently, he said, "I'll be glad when our grails are charged. I'm itching for a smoke." Clemens laughed and dried his tears and said, "I don't cry easily. But I've gotten over being asham about it when I do. "It's a sad world, just as sad, in most ways, as the old Earth. Yet we have our youthful bodies again, we don't have to work for food or worry about paying bills, making our women pregnant, catching diseases. And if we're killed we rise up the following day, whole and hearty, although thousands of miles from where we died. "But it's nothing like what the preachers said it would be. Which isn't, of course, surprising. And maybe it's just as well. Who'd want to fly around on aerodynamical ly unstable wings or stand around all day playing harps badly and screeching out hosannas?" Lothar laughed and said, "Ask any Chinese or Indian coolie if this isn't a hell of a better world than the last world. It's just us spoiled modem Westerners who grumble and look for first and latest causes. We didn't know much about the operation of our Earthly cosmos, and we know less about this. But we're here, and we may eventually find out who put us here and why. Meanwhile, as long as there are beautiful and willing women -- and there are -- cigars, dreamgum, wine and a good fight, who cares? I'll enjoy this valley of bright shadows until the good things of life are once more taken from me. Lust to lust until it's dust to dust." They were silent after a while, and Clemens could not get to sleep until just before the rains. He got down under the mushroom until the downpour ceased. Back on top of the stone, he shivered and turned for several hours, although he was covered with long heavy towels. Dawn came with Miller's ponderous hand shaking him. Hastily, he climbed down off the stone and got a safe distance from it. Five minutes later, the stone gave forth a blue flame that leaped thirty feet into the air and roared like a lion. At the same time, the stones across the river bellowed. Clemens looked at Lothar. "Somebody repaired the break." Lothar said, "I've got goose pimples. Who is somebody?" He was silent for a while, but before they had reached the west bank, he was laughing and chattering like a guest at a ccktail party. Too cheerful, Clemens thought. "They've never shown their hand before, that I know of," Sam said. "But diis time I guess they had to." V T he next five days were occupied in getting the ship down to the bank. Two weeks more were spent in repairing the Dreyrugr, All that time a watch was kept, but no one came into the area. When the ship was finally launched, still minus masts and sails, and was rowed down the river, there was not a live human in sight. The crew, accustomed to seeing the plains thronged with men and women, were uneasy. The silence was unnerving. There were no animals on this world except for the fish in the river and earthworms in the soil, but the humans had always made enough noise. "The hyenas'll be here soon enough," Clemens said to Bloodaxe. "That iron is far more precious than gold ever was on Earth. You want battle? You'll get enough down your throat to make you vomit." The Norseman, swinging his axe, winced at the pain in his ribs. "Let them come! Tiey'!! know they've been in a fight to bring joy to the hearts of the Valkyrie!" "Bull!" Joe Miller said. Sam smiled but walked to a position behind the titanthrop. Bloodaxe was afraid of only one being in the world, but he might lose his never easily controlled temper and go berserk. However, he needed Miller, who was worth twenty great but human warriors. IF The ship travelled steadily for two days during the sunlit hours. At night, one man steered and a small watch was kept, the crew slept. Early in the evening of the third day, the titanthrop, Clemens and von Richthofen were sitting on the foredeck, smoking cigars and sipping at the whiskey their grails had given them at the last stop. "Why do you call him Joe Miller?" Lothar asked. "His real name is a rattling jawbreaker, longer than the technical term of a German philosopher," Clemens said. "I couldn't pronounce it when I first met him, I never did. After he learned enough English to tell me a joke -- he was so eager he could hardly wait -- I decided to call him Joe Miller. He told me a tale so hoary I couldn't believe it. I knew it'd been around a long time; I first heard it, in a slightly different form, when I was a boy in Hannibal, Missouri. And I was still hearing it, much to my disgust, for the hundred thousandth time, when I was an old man. But to have to listen to that story from the lips of a man who'd died one hundred fore I was born!" "And the story?" "Well, there was this traveling hunter who'd been tracking a wounded deer all day. Night came and with it a violent storm. Seeing the light of a fire, the hunter stopped off kt a cave. He asked the old medicine man who lived in it if he could spend the night there. And the old medicine man said, 'Sure, but we're pretty crowded here. You'll have to sleep with my daughter.' Need I go any fuer?" "Tham didn't laugh," Joe rumbled. "Thometimeth I think he ain't got a thenthe of humor." Clemens tweaked Joe's projectileshaped nose affectionately. He said, "Thometimeth I think you're right. But actualy I'm the most humorous man in the world because I'm the most sorrowful. Every laugh is rooted in pain." H e puffed on his cigar for a while and stared at the shore. Just before dusk, the ship had entered the area where the last of the intense heat from the meteorite had struck. Aside from the few irontrees, everything had been whistled off in a shock of searing flame. The irontrees had given up their huge leaves to the flames, and even the enormously resistant bark had burned off and the wood beneath, harder than granite, had become charred. Moreover, the blast had tilted or leveled many of these, snapping them off at the base. The grailstones had been blackened and were out of plumb but had retained their shape. Finally, he said, "Lothar, now is as good a time as any for you to learn something of why we're on this quest. Joe can tell it in his way; I'll explain anything you don't understand. It's a strange tale, but no stranger, actually, than anything that's happened here since we all woke up from the dead." "I'm thirthty," Joe said. "Let me get a drink firtht." The dark-blue eyes, shadowed in IF the bone rings, focused upon the hollow of the cup. He seemed to peer therein as if he were trying to conjure up the scenes he was about to describe. Guttural, his tongue hitting certain consonants harder than others, thus giving his English a clanging quality, yet comical with its lisping, voice rising up from a chest deep and resonants as the well of the Delphian oracle, he told of the Misty Tower. "Thomevhere upon The River, I avoke, naked ath I am now. I vath in a plathe that mutht be far north on thith planet, because it vath colder and the light vath not ath bright. There vere no humanth, yutht uth... uh, titantropth, ath Tham callth uth. Ve had grailth, only they vere much larger than yourth, ath you can thee. And ve got no beer and vithkey. Ve had never known about alcohol, tho ve had none in our grailth. Ve drank the river vater. "Ve thought ve vere in the plathe that you go to vhen you die, that the... uh... godth had given uth thith plathe and all ve needed. Ve vere happy, ve mated and ate and thlept and fought our enemieth. And I vould have been happy there if it had not been for the thyip." "He means ship," Sam said. "That'th what I thaid. Thyip. Pleathe don't interrupt, Tham. You've made me unhappy enough by telling me that there are no godth. Even if I've theen the godth." Lothar said, "Seen the godsT "Not egthactly. I thaw vhere they live. I did thee their thlip." Von Richthofen said, "What? What're you talking about?" Clemens waved his cigar. "Later. Let him talk. If you interrupt him too much, he gets confused." "Vhere I come from, you don't talk vhile another ith talking. Othervithe, you get punched in the nothe." Sam said, "With a nose as big as yours, Joe, that must hurt." Miller delicately stroked his proboscis. "It ith the only vone I have, and I'm proud of it. Novhere in thith part of the valley hath any pigmy got a nothe like mine. Vhere I come from, your nothe indicateth the tithe of your -- vhat'th your vord for it, Tham?" Sam choked and took the cigar from his lips. "You were telling us of the ship, Joe." "Yeth. No! I vath not! I hadn't gotten to it yet. But ath I vath thaying, vun day I vath lying on the bank vatching the fith play. I vath thinking about getting up and making a hook and pole to catch thome. All of a thudden, I heard a thyout. I looked up. There, coming around the bend of the river vath thith terrible monthter. "It vath awful. I jumped up, and I vath going to run avay vhen I thaw it had men on itth back. They looked like men, but vhen the monthter got clother, I thaw they vere thpindly little runtth vith the mange and no notheth to thpeak of. I could have beat them all to death vith vone hand, and yet they were riding thith monthter river-thnake like beath on a bear'th back. Tho " C lemens, listening, felt again as he had when he first heard the story. He felt as if he were standing by the side of this creature from the dawn of man. Despite the clanging and lisping and halting and slow groping after words, this Titan spoke impressively. Clemens could feel his panic and his wonder and almost overpowering urge to run away. Clemens could also feel the .opposing urge, the primate's curiosity, the thing that made him, if not wholly a man, at least a nearcousin. Behind the shelving brow lay the gray pulse that would not be content just to exist but must be fed on the shapes of unknown things, on patterns never before seen. So Joe Miller stayed upon the bank, though his hand closed around the handle of the grail, ready to carry it with him if he had to flee. The monster floated closer. Joe began to think that it might not be alive. But if it were not, why the great head poised at its front as if to strike? Yet it did not look alive. It gave a feeling of deadness, Tliis did not mean much, of course. Joe had seen a wounded bear pretend death convincingly and then rise up and tear the arm off a fellowhunter. Moreover, though he had seen the hunter die, he had also seen the hunter alive again, that day he awoke on the banks with others of his kind. And if he, and Joe, too, could come alive again, why couldn't this petrified snakelike head lose its dead woodenness and seize him in its teeth? But he ignored his fears and, trembling, approached the monster. He was a Titan, older brother to man, fresh with the dawn and with the primate's have-to-know-what'sgoing-on. A pygmy, mangy as the others but wearing on his brow a glass circlet with a stained-red flaming sun, beckoned to Joe Miller. The others upon the wooden beast stood behind the man with the glass drclet and held spears and strange devices that Joe learned later were bows and arrows. Tliey did not seem frightened of the colossus, but that may have been because they were so tired from their seldom-ceasing rowing against the current that they did not care what happened. It took a long time for the pygmy chief to get Joe aboard the ship. They came ashore to charge their grails while Joe backed away from them. They ate, and Joe ate also, but at a distance. His fellows had run for the hills, having been also panicked by the ship. Presently seeing that the river-snake did not threaten Joe, they slowly approached it. The pygmies retreated to the ship. And now the chief took a strange object from his grail' and held a glowing wire to its tip, and smoke came from it and from the pygmy's mouth. Joe jumped at the first puff; his fellows scattered for the foothills again. Joe wondered if the noseless pygmies could be the brood of the dragon. Perhaps her children took this larval form, but, like their mother, they could breathe out fire and smoke? "But I ain't a dummy," Joe said. "It didn't take me long to figure IF out that the thmoke came from the object, vhich in Englith ith a thigar. Their chief made it plain that if I'd get on the thyip, I could thmoke the thigar. Now, I mutht've been crathy to do tho, but I vanted to thmoke that thigar. Maybe I thought I'd impreth my tribe, I don't know." H e jumped on the ship, his weight causing it to tilt a little on the port. He swung his grail to show them that if they attacked him, he would bash their skulls in with it. They took the hint and did not come close. The chief gave Joe a cigar, and though Joe coughed a little and found the taste of tobacco strange, he liked it. Moreover, when he had drunk beer for the first time, he was entranced. So Joe decided to go on the riversnake's back up the river with the pygmies. He was put to work on a mighty sweep, and he was called Tehuti. "Tehuti?" von Richthofen said. "The Greek form is Thoth," Clemens said. "To the Egyptians, he looked something like the longbeaked ibis-god. I suppose he must also have reminded them of the baboon-god, Bast, but that tremendous nose outweighed that consideration. So, Thoth, or Tehuti, he became." Days and nights flowed by like the river. Sometimes, Joe became tired and wished to be put ashore. By now, he could speak the pygmies' language, though haltingly. The chief would agree to do as Joe wished since it was obvious that any denial might result in the slaughter of his entire crew. But he would speak sadly of Tehuti's education ending there, just when he was doing so well. He had been a brute though with the face of the god of wisdom, and soon he would be a man. Brute? God? Man? What were they? The order was not quite right, the chief would say. TTie correct sequence, ever upward, was brute, man and god. Yet it was true you might see a god disguised as a beast, and man merged insensibly from animal into deity, balanced between the two, and now and then changed into one or the other. That was beyond the breadloafshaped brain of Tehuti. He would squat and scowl at the nearing bank. There would be no more cigars or beer. The people on the bank were his kind, but they were also not his tribe, and they might kill him. Moreover, he was beginning for the first time to experience intellectual stimulation, and that would cease once he was back among the titanthrops. So he would look at the chief and blink, grin and shake his head and tell him he was going to stay on the ship. He took his turn at the sweep and resumed his study of the most marvelous of all things: a tongue that knew philosophy. He became fluent in their speech and began to grasp the wonderful things the leader told him, although sometimes it was as painful as grasping a handful of thorns. If this or that idea eluded him, he pursued it, caught it, swallowed it, perhaps vomited it up a score of times. Eventually, he digested it and got some nourishment from it. The river flowed by. They rowed, always staying close to the shore, where the current was weakest. Days and nights, and now the sun did not climb so high in the heavens but was a little lower at its zenith than it had been the week before. And the air grew colder. S am said, "Joe and his party were getting close to the north pole. The inclination of this planet's equator to the plane of the ecliptic is zero. As you know, there are no seasons; day and night are equal in length. But Joe was approaching the point where he would see the sun always half below the horizon and half above. Or would have if it hadn't been for the mountains." "Yeth. It vath alvayth tvilight. I got cold, though not ath cold ath the men. They vere thyivering their atheth off." "His big bulk radiates heat slower than our puny bodies," Clemens said. "Pleathe, pleathe! Thyould I talk or jutht keep my big mouth thyut?" Lother and Sam grinned at him. He continued. The wind grew stronger, and the air became misty. Joe began to get uneasy. He wanted to turn back, but by now he did not want to lose the respect of the leader. He would go every inch of the way towards their unknown goal with them. "You didn't know where they were going?" Lothar said. "Not egthactly. They vanted to get to the headvaterth of the river. They thought Aaybe the godth lived there, and there the godth vould admit them into the true aftervorld. They thaid that thitii vorld vathn't the true world. It vath a thtage on the vay to the true vorld. Vhatever that ith." One day, Joe heard a rumble that sounded as faintly but yet as near as gas moving within his bowels. After a while, as the noise became hke thunder, he knew it was water falling from immense heights. The ship swung into a bay protected by a finger of land. The grailstones no longer lined the river. The men would have to catch fish and dry them. There was also a store of bamboo tips on the ship; these had been collected in the sunlit region for just such an eventuality. The leader and his men prayed, and the party began climbing the steep cliffs beside the first of a series of cataracts. Here the superhuman strength of Tehuti-Joe Miller helped them in overcoming obstacles. Other times, his great weight was a hinderance and a danger. Upward they went, wet because of the everpresent spray. When they came to a cliff smooth as ice for a thousand feet up, they despaired. Reconnoitering, they found a rope dangling from the face of a cliff. It was formed of towels tied together. Joe tested its strength and climbed up, hand over hand, his feet braced against the cliff, until he reached the top. There he turned to watch the others follow him. The IF chief,, first after Joe, tired much easier, and halfway up to the top he could go no further. Joe pulled him and the extremely heavy weight of the rope to the top. He did the same for each man in the party. VV come from?" von Richthofen said. "Someone had prepared the way for them," Clemens said. "Given the primitive technology of this planet, no one could have found a way to get that rope up to the rock around which one end of the rope was tied. Maybe a balloon might have lifted a man up there. You could make a balloon of riverdragon-skin or human skins, you know. You could make hydrogen by passing steam over highly heated charcoal in the presence of a suitable catalyst. But in this world of scarce metal, where's the catalyst. "Hydrogen could be made without a catalyst but at an enormous cost in fuel. But there was no evidence of the furnaces needed to make the hydrogen. Besides, why would the towels be left behind, when they'd be needed again? No, some unknown person, let's call him The Mysterious Stranger, put that rope there for Joe and party. Or for whoever might come along. Don't ask me who he was or how he did it. Listen. There's more." The party, carrying the rope, walked for several miles in the mistridden twilight on a plateau. They came to another cliff where the river broadened out above them into a cataract. It was so wide, it seemed to Joe that there was enough water to float the moon of Earth upon it. He would not have been surprised to see that great silverand-black orb appear on the brink of the cataract far above and hurtle down that thunder of waters and be smashed to pieces on the rocks in the maelstrom foot. The wind became stronger and louder; the mist, thicker. Drops of water condensed on the towels they had now fastened around themselves from head to foot. The cliff before them was as mirror-smooth and perpendicular as the one just ascended. Its top was lost in the fog; it could be only fifty feet high or could be ten thousand. They searched along the foot, hoping for some kind of fissure. And they found one. It was like a small door at the juncture of plateau and cliff. It was so low, it forced them to get down on hands and knees and crawl. Joe's shoulders rubbed against the sides of the rock. But the rock was smooth, as if the hole had been made by man and rubbed until all roughness was gone. The tunnel led at a slightly less than #-degree angle upwards and through the mountain. There was no estimating its distance. When Joe came out at the other end, however, his shoulders and hands and knees were rubbed raw and bleeding even with the protection of towels. "I don't understand," von Richthofen said. "It seems to me that the mountains were shaped there to prevent men from getting to the end of the river. Why was this tunnel bored through sd rock to give intruders passage? And why wasn't a tunnel placed in the first cliff?" "A tunnel in the first cliff might have been visible to whatever sentinels or patrols there are in that area," Clemens said. "But the second cliff was hidden in mist." "That chain of white towels would be even more outstanding," the German said. "Maybe it was placed there not too long before Joe got there," Clemens said. Von Richthofen shivered. "For Heaven' th thaketh, let me tell thith! After all, it ith my tale." "And a big one, too," Clemens said, looking at Joe's huge buttocks. "Thtickth and thtoneth may break my boneth," Joe replied. VI T he party pushed on over another tableland for about ten miles. They slept or tried to, ate, and began climbing. Now, though the mountains were very steep and rough, they were scalable. Their chief enemy was lack of oxygen. They gasped for breath and had to halt often to rest. By now Joe's feet were hurting him, and he was limping. He did not ask if he could rest. As long as the others walked, so would he. "Joe can't stay on his feet as long as a human," Clemens said. "All of his species suffer from flat feet. Their weight is just too much for a biped that size. I wouldn't be surprised if his kind became extinct on Earth because of broken arches." "I know bne thpethimen of Homo Thapienth who'th going to suffer from a broken nothe if he don't keep hith nothe out of my buthineth, vhich ith telling thith lhtor" Joe said. He showed his wlck-looking canines. They climbed until the river, broad as it was, was only a thread below them. Much of the time they could not see even that thread because of the clouds. Snow and ice made climbing even more dangerous. Then they found a way downward to another plateau and gropped through the fog against a wind that howl and 'beat at them. They found themselves beside a tremendous hole in the mountains. Out of the hole rushed the river, and on every side except riverwards the mountain rose straight and smooth. The hole was the only way to go. Out of it blasted a roar so loud they could not hear each other, the voice of a god who spoke as loud as death. Joe Miller found a narrow ledge entering the cave high above the waters. Joe noticed that the leader had now dropped back behind him. After a while, the titan throp became aware that all of the pygmies 'were looking to him as their guide and helper. When they shouted to make themselves heard above the bellow, they called him Tehuti. There was nothing unusual in that, but before this he had detected overtones of jesting in their use of the name. No more. Now he was truly their Tehuti. IF Clemens interrupted agaip. "It was as if we called the village idiot Jehovah or something like that. When men have no need of gods, they mock them. But when afraid, they treat them with respect. Now, you might say, Toth was leading them into the opening into the Underworld. "Of course, Tm only indulging in mankind's vice of trying to make a symbol out of coincidence. If you scratch any dog, you'll scare out a flea." Joe Miller was breathing heavily through his grotesque nose, and the vast chest rose and fell like a bellows. Clearly, the reliving of that experience had aroused the old terror in him. The ledge was not like the tunnel in the mountain. It had not been prepared. It was rough, and there were gaps in it, and sometimes it ran so Mgh that Joe had to crawl to squeeze between the ledge and the roof of the cavern. The darkness blinded him as if his eyes had been plucked out. His sense of hearing did not help him; the bellow filled his ears. Only his touch was left to guide him, and he was so agitated that he sometimes wondered if that were betraying him. He would have quit except that if he did, the men behind him would not have been able to go on. "Ve th topped tvithe to eat and voneth to thleep," Joe said. "Just vhen I vath beginning to think ve might crawl until ve ran out of food, I thaw a grayneth ahead. It vathn't a light. Jutht a leththening of the darkneth." r iey were out of the cave, in the open air, on the side of a mountain. Several thousand feet below them was a sea of clouds. The sun was hidden behind the mountains, but the sky above was not yet dark. The narrow ledge continued, and they crawled on their bloodied hands and knees downward now, since the ledge had narrowed to nothing. Trembling, they clung to the tiniest of fingerholes. A man slipped and fell and clutched another man. Screaming, both disappeared into the clouds. The air became warmer. "The river was giving up its heat," Clemens said. "It not only originates at the north pole, it also empties there after picking up heat in its serpentine wanderings over the entire planet. The air at the north pole is cold but not nearly as cold as that on Earth." The party came to another shelf on which they could stand, facing the mountain, and proceed sidewise, like crabs. The shelf curved around the mountain-side. Joe halted. The narrow valley had widened into a great plain. He could hear, far below, the dash of surf against rock. Through the twilight, Joe could see the mountains ringing the sea of the north pole. The cloud-covered waters formed a body about sixty miles in diameter. The clouds were thicker at the opposite end of the sea. He didn't know why then, but Sam had explained that the clouds hid the mouth of the river, where the warm waters came into contact with the cold air. Joe tcKk a few more steps around tihe curve of the ledge. And he saw the gray metal cylinder sitting on the path before him. For a moment, he did not understand what it was, it looked so alien. It was so unexpected. Then it flowed into familiar lines, and he knew it was a grail left by a man who had come before him on this dangerous path. Some unknown pilgrim had survived the same perils as he. Up to that point, that is. He had put the grail down to eat. The lid was open, and there was the stinking remnant of fish and moldy bread within it. The pilgrim had used the grail as a pack, perhaps hoping he might come across a grailstone and recharge it. Something had happened to him. He would not have left the grail there unless he had been killed or had been so frightened he had run away without it. At this thought, Joe's skin chilled. He went around the outcropping that was sitting at a point where the ledge went around a shoulder of granite. For a moment, his view of the sea was blocked. He went around the outcripping -- and he cried out. T he men called and asked what troubled him. He could not tell them because the shook had taken away his newly learned speech, and he spoke in his native tongue. The clouds in the middle of the sea had roiled away for a few seconds. The top of a structure projected from the clouds. It was cylindrical and gray, like the top of a monster 'grail. Mists rose and fell around it, now revealing, now veiling. Somewhere in the mountains ringing the polar sea, a break existed. At that moment, the low sun must have passed this notch in the range. A ray of light fell through the notch and struck the top of the tower. Joe squinted his eyes and tried to see into the brightness of the reflection. Something round had appeared just above the top of the tower and was settling down towards it. It was egg-shaped and white, and it was from this that the sun was sparkling. The next instant, as the sun passed by the notch, the sparkle died. The tower and the object above it faded into darkness and mist. Joe, crying out at the sight of the flying object, stepped back. His leg stnick the grail left by the unknown pilgrim. He swung his arms to regain his balance, but not even his apelike agility could save him. He toppled backward, bellowing horror as he turned over and over. Once he glimpsed the faces of his companions, a row of dark brown objects with the darker O's of mouths, watching his descent to the clouds and waters beneath. "I don't remember hitting the vater," Joe said. "I avoke tranthlated about tventy mileth from where Tham Clcmenth vath. Thith vath a plathe vhere Northmen of the tenth thentury A.D. lived. I had to IF thaait learning a new language all over again. The little nothelethth people vere thcared of me, but they vanted me to fight for them. Then I met Tham, and ve became buddieth." They were silent for a while. Joe lifted his glass to his thin and chimpanzee-flexible lips and poured out the rest of the liquor. Somber, the other two watched him. The only sign of brightness about them was the glow of their cigar ends. Von Richthofen said, "This man who wore a glass circlet with a sunburst. What did you say his name was?" "I didn't." "Well, then, what was it?" "Ikhnaton. Tham knowth more about him than I do, and I lived for four yeath with him. At leatht, that'th vhat Tham tha. But -- " here Joe looked smug -- "I know the man and all Tham knowth ith a few hithtorical factth, tho-called." V on Richthofen said good night and went belowdecks. Sam paced back and forth, stopping once to light a cigarette for the helmsman. He wanted to sleep but could not. Insomnia had been skewering him for years; it drove through the middle of his brain, which spun on it like a wild gear, disengaged from his body's need for rest. Joe Miller sat hunched against the railing and waited for his friend -- thq only man he trusted and loved -- to go belowdecks. Presently his head drooped, the bludgeon-nose describing a weary arc, and he snored. The noise was like that of trees being felled in the distance. Sequoias split, screeched, cracked. Vast sighings and bubblings alternated with the woodchoopers' activities. "Thieep veil, little chum," Sam said, knowing that Joe dreamed of that forever-lost Earth where mammoths and giant bears and Hons roamed and where beautiful -- to him -- females of his own species lusted after him. Once he groaned and then whimpered, and Sam knew that he was dreaming again of being seized by a bear which was obomping on his feet. Joe's feet hurt day and night. Like all of his kind, he was too huge and heavy for bipedal locomotion. Indeed, it was this that originated Sam's theory for the extinction of the titanthrop' on Earth. Nature had experimented with a truly giant subhuman species and then she had dismissed them as failures. The rise and Fall of the Flatfeet' Sam said. "An article I shall never write." Sam gave a groan, a weak echo of Joe's. He saw Livy's halfsmashed body, given him briefly by the waves, then taken away. Or had she really been Livy? Had he not seen her at least a dozen times before while staring through the telescope at the multitudes on the banks? Yet, when he had been able to talk Bloodaxe into putting ashore just to see if the face was Livy's, he had always been disappointed. Now there was no reason to believe the corpse had been his wife's. He groaned again. How cruel if it had been Livy! How like Ufe! To have been so close and then to have her taken away a few minutes before he would have been reunited with her. And to have her cast upon the decks as if God -- or whatever sneering forces ran the universe -- were to laugh and to say, "See how close you came! Suffer, you miserable conglomeration of atoms! Be in pain, wretch! You must pay with tears and agony!" "Pay for what?" Sam muttered, biting on his cigar. "Pay for what crimes? Haven't I suffered enough on Earth, suffered for what I did do and even more for what I didn't do?" Death had come on Earth, and he had been glad because it meant the end forever to all sorrow. He would no longer have to weep because of the sickness and deaths of his beloved wife and daughters nor gloom because he felt responsible for the death of his only son, the death caused by his negligence. Or was it carelessness that had made his son catch the disease that killed him? Hadn't he unconsciously permitted the robe to slip from his son, Httle Langdon, while taking him for a carriage ride that cold winter day?" "No!" Sam said so loudly that Joe stirred and the helmsman growled something in Norse. He smacked his fist against his open palm, and Joe muttered again. "God, why do I have to ache with guilt for anything I've done?" Sam cried. "It doesn't matter now! It's all been wiped out; we've started with clean souls." B ut it did matter. It made no difference that all the dead were once mor alive and the sick were healthy and the bad deeds so remote in time and space that they should be forgiven and forgotten. WJiat a man had been and had thought on Earth, he still was and thought here. Suddenly, he wished he had a stick of dreamgum. That might remove the clenching remorse and make him wildly happy. But then it might intensify the anguish. You never knew if a horror so terrifying would come that you wanted to die. The last time he had taken the gum, he had been so menaced by monsters that he had not dared try the gum again. But maybe this time... no! Little Langdon! He would never see him again, never! His son had been only twenty-eight months old when he had died, and this meant that he had not been resurrected on the rivervalley. No children who had died on Earth before the age of five had been raised again. At least, not here. It was to be presumed that they were alive somewhere, probably on another planet. But for some reason, whoever was responsible for this had chosen not to place the infant dead here. And so Sam would never find him and so make amends. Nor would he ever find Livy or his daughters, Sarah, Jean, and Clara. Not on a river said to be people on its banks. Even if a man started at one end and walked up IF one bank and looked at every person on that side and then, on reaching the end, walked back down the other side and did not miss a person, he would take -- how long? A mile a day would mean a round trip of, say # into #, what was that? He wasn't any good at doing sums in his head, but it must be over # years. And even if a man could do this, could walk all those weary miles and make sure he never missed a face, at the end of over # years he still might not find the face. The longed-for person might have died somewhere ahead of the searcher and been translated back down the river, behind the searcher. Or the searchee may have passed by the seacher during the night, perhaps while the searchee was looking for the searcher. Yet there might be another way to do this. The beings responsible for this rivervalley and the resurrection might have the power to locate anybody they wished to. They must have a central file or some means of ascertaining the identity and location of the valley-dwellers. Or, if they did not, they could at least be made to pay for what they had done. J oe Miller's story was no fantasy. It had some very puzzling aspects, but these hinted at something comforting. That was, that some nameless person -- or being -- wanted the valley dwellers to know about the tower in the mists of the north polar sea. Why? Sam did not know, could not guess. But that hole had been bored through the cliff to enable human beings to find out about the tower. And in that tower must be the light to scatter the darkness of ignorance. Of that Sam was sure. And then there was the widespread story of the Englishman, Burton or Perkin, probably Burton, who had awakened prematurely in the pre-resurrection phase. Was the awakening any more of an accident than the hole bored through the polar cliff? And so Samuel Clemens had had his first dream, had nourished it until it had become The Great Dream. To make it real, he needed iron, much iron. It was this that had caused him to talk Erik Bloodaxe into launching the expedition in search of the source of the steel axe. Sam had not really expected that there would be enough of the metal to build the giant boat, but at least the Norse were taking him up-river, closer to the polar sea. Now, with a luck that he did not deserve -- he really felt he deserved nothing good -- he was within reach of more iron than he could possibly have hoped for. Not that that had kept him from hoping. He needed men with knowledge. Engineers who would know how to treat the meteorite iron, get it out, melt it down, reshape it. And engineers and technicians for the hundred other things needed. These Norsemen were no good for that. He toed Joe Miller's ribs and said, "Get up, Joe. It'll be raining soon." The titanthrop grunted and rose like a tower out of a fog and stretched. Starlight glinted on his canines. IW He followed Sam across tlie deck, the bamboo planks creaking under the eight hundred pounds. From below, somebody cursed in Norse. The mountains on both sides were covered with clouds now, and the darkness was spreading over the valley and shutting off the insane glitter of twenty thousand giants stars and glowing gas sheets. Soon it would rain hard for half an hour, and then the clouds would disappear. Lightning streaked on the eastern bank; thunder bellowed. Sam stopped. Lightning always made him afraid, or, rather, the child in him afraid. Lightning streaked through him and showed him the haunted and haunting faces of those he had injured or insulted or dishonored and behind them were blurred faces reproaching him for nameless crimes. Lightning twisted through him; then he believed in an avenging God out to bum him alive, to drown him in searing pain. Somewhere in the clouds was the Wrathful Retributor, and He was looking for Sam Clemens. Joe said, "There'th thunder thomevhere further down the river. No! It ain't thunder! Lithen! Can't you hear it! It'th thomething funny, like thunder but different." Sam listened while his skin prickled with cold. There was a very faint rumble downriver. He got even colder as he heard a louder rumble from upriver. "What the hell is it?" "Don't get thcared, Tham," Joe said. "I'm vith you." But he was shivering, too. Lightning spread a filamented whiteness on the east bank. Sam jumped and said, "Jesus! I saw something flicker!" Joe moved next to him and said, "I thaw it! It'th the thyip! You know, the vun I thaw above the tower. But it'th gone!" Joe and Sam stood silent, peering into the darkness. Lightning exploded again, and this time there was no white eggshape high above the river. "It flickered out of nothing and went back to nothing. Like a mirage," Sam said. "If you hadn't seen it, too, I'd have thought it was an illusion." S am awoke on the deck. He was stiff, cold and confused. He rolled over and squinted his eyes at the sun just clearing the eastern range. Joe was on his back beside him, and the helmsman was sleeping beside the wheel. But it was not this that brought him exclaiming to his feet. The gold of the sun had faded out as he brought his gaze down; green was everywhere. The muddied plains and mountains, with straws and stubs of debris, were gone. There was short grass on the plains, tall grass and bamboo on the hills, and the giant pine, oak, yew and irontree everywhere on the hills. "Business as usual," Sam muttered. He was doubly shocked. Something had put all aboard the Dreyrugr asleep, and while they were unconscious, the incredible work of clearing off the mud and replanting the vegetation had been completed. The world was reborn! IF  Short Story Pelandra was only a junior member of the immortals -- but she gave the others life! P roject New Earth (had seemed so simple to Pelandra, fifteen years ago when she had trooped on to the spaceship with her six husbands and the three old scientists. Of course, nobody would ever have known that Zor, Lunor and Gohar were old, because each man had the deceptive appearance of a twenty-five-year-old athlete land the vitality to match it. These three were members of an ultra-exclusive elite, a secret society known as the Chosen Brethren, and they had been selected to rule the distant planet for which the great nuclear craft was now bound. They would form the central intelligence cell destined to control the test-tube people by computers and brain electrodes. This way, a predetermined history of the new planet had been possible. The programming of the selfregenerating computers had taken two hundred years to reach perfection. Pelandra herself was only a very junior member of the Brethren and she had not as yet completely earned the right to immortality. At one time, the project had seemed very exciting and stimulating, but now the woman found it futile... because Husband Three was mortal. Until recently, she had been thrilled by the keen interest Lunor showed in her progress. He opened his thoughts to her freely. Only this day, he had said to her: "We old men have reached a state of almost certain immortality. You will too, in time. But, my child, you must be single-minded about it. I think I detect in you a definite bias towards Three. Try to overcome this fault, please. Centuries ago, when I was lucky enough to discover the Life Fluid which enabled me to live an active span of a century and a half, I dreamed of this journey and of taking such a person as you with me." His great eyes glowed with pride. "You are to become my own wife when we reach the new planet, but for this great honor, you must be perfect. Therefore, I must insist that you do not allow unseemly, primitive emotions to cloud your outlook. Do you understand?" The woman shivered slightly and replied. "I will try, Lunor, but it is very hard for me. My imagination is still not completely under my own control, even though I practice daily. I confess that the young man is unusually attractive. It would be foolish to try to deny this. However, you can rest assured that my loyalty is to you, alone." Pelandra spoke these honeyed words with conviction, but she lied. The woman was terrified that Lunor would realize this fact. Also, she had a faint suspicion that Gohar had guessed her guilty secret. She loved Three! Pelandra's own knowledge, Zor was at least two hundred, and the others much older. Lunor was a great power within the Galaxy Organization, because of his mass of accumulated knowledge and because he tried to manipulate his subject peoples as humanely as possible -- so long as scientific progress was not endangered, of course. As for Gohar, Pelandra hated him. To her, he seemed to have the coldness of a reptile. All desire, except the desire to remain alive and manipulate others, had died in him long ago. Pelandra smiled to herself when she saw that Husband Number Three had taken up her complex navigational instruments and was trying studiously to check the bearings of the spacecraft, hurtling along at the speed of light. He was having his usual difficulty. A radio telescope on Earth had already monitor their direction and distance, and an Earth computer had decided that no corrections needed to be made. Her latest Husband, who was unusually clever for a replacement human, had picked up this information on the nuclear radio communicator and now, eagerly. wished to check his own growing navigational skill against the computer. Making very sure that no one was spying on her, the woman came over to him and laid an affectionate arm about his broad shoulders. "Don't you remember what I told you about the three co-ordinates?" she asked indulgently. "Now, tell me, how far are we away from Earth?" ' "Fifteen light-years," he replied, his face boyish with embarrassed desire to learn and to please her. Because of him, Pelandra was ready to jeopardize her chance of immortality. But now that Lunor had grown suspicious it was necessary to exercise extreme caution. He would cast them both into space if he knew. Besides, Gohar always seemed to be nearby, his wicked eyes eager to detect any anti-elite behavior on her part. "Well, you can either use that information or, better still, measure the diameter of the solar disk and use the plane of the planetary system for the other two." She kissed him playfully on the dheek. "It's quite simple, really, silly boy. I don't know why you always make such a fuss about it. But, as I told you before, you'll nearly always be wrong; that's why we have to rely on periodic Earth checks." Pelandra liked to keep close to her husband. She had a secret and dreadful fear that she, too, might one day be cold and hateful like Gohar. Three seemed to rejuvenate her humanity, as if some inexplicable life force was moving within him. It came into her mind that perhaps those who died for the cause of science were luckier than those who had to live for it! Throwing reason aside, she began to confide in Three. It was the one, unforgivable sin! "Did you know that I was Lunor's chief assistant in the Halls of the Chosen Brethren?" she asked. Then, seeing his puzzled look, she continued, "How foolish of me. How could you possibly know? How could you know that there are twenty Select Beings destined to live forever and that four of them are on this ship!" "Are you one of them?" cried the startled Three, staring at her with troubled eyes. "Yes, I'm afraid I am. Listen carefully. I love you and because of this I do not wish to deceive you. Will you try to understand and forgive me?" "Yes." His honest eyes were full of compassion. "I have acted as a surgeon to replace their failing organs with spare parts from live humans. Ah, don't shrink from me like that! They were specially bred by a very humane process in the delightful cities of the suburbs." Three stood in rigid silence; he had been from a suburb! "Every human conceived is crossmatched and classed genetically at the test-tube stage? Those not suitable for replacement purposes are trained as sdentists, doctors, spacemen or agricultural workers, accoirding to their potential mental ability -- which is ascertained when the embryo is removed from the womb and placed in a test incubator for investigation and advanced culture." Pelandra was speaking in a flat monotone and avoiding Three's eyes. "But I have never worked!" cried the young man, gripping her by the shoulders. "I was only taught to keep my body fit and to fill my mind with artistic thought. Does this mean... does it mean that I am a replacement human? Oh, no, it is too horrible!" He slid to his knees before her, burying his face against her, shivering with horror. Pelandra's whole being was filled with pain as she wrapped her arms about him, crying over him and stroking his hair, while he gazed hopelessly into her lovely face with the terror slowly mounting in his expression. "You must realize," she said sadly, "that Lunor has experimented a hundred years to make this present journey possible. The great man himself carefully nurtured my own embryo through incubation. He has trained my mind personally for twenty years. I am the most intelligent and physically perfect specimen in the whole galaxy. I excel even Lunor. I have three functions on this journey: space pilot, surgeon and mother. I am sorry. Three, but I wanted you to understand." Wearily she put a hand to her throbbing forehead. "Try not to hate me." "I can only love you, Pelandra," he replied simply. "When am I to die?" "Tomorrow!" "Then let us be happy together in the time we have left, my love." # IF And so they clung together in what can only be described as a beautiful sadness. Xt was not really six husbands that XPelandra had brought with her onto the spaceship. Actually, it had only been five because Husband Number Six was still in a test tube in the pocket of her galaxy suit at the time of launching. He had not been due to be bom for another five years. Now he was a strapping fairhaired lad of ten. Pelandra thought what a shame it was that he would, like all her other husbands, have to die before the landing on the new planet. She ran a weary hand across her forehead, as if to bmsh this distasteful thought away. The huge spacecrMt was coasting along without engines. On Lunor's orders, they did this as often as possible in order to save fuel. Through the forward vision window, they could see a moving vista of distant meteorites. Pelandra had decided that, as they were on the correct flight path, there was no need to release any gas jets to reorient the craft as they had done on previous occasions. So Pelandra, who had no more work to do, was content to sit with Three and talk to him. She felt like weeping. It was strange and bewildering to her that the thought of parting from her third husband should cause her so much heartache. After all, she had disposed of the first two with complete medical calm and perfect scientific indifference. What in the name of the Stars was the matter with her? Pelandra plunged deep into her own mind, seeking an explanation without success. "What a shame you cross-match so well with the three old men," she sighed. "You would have made an excellent scientist. Your inteUigenco is easily fifty per cent of my own, whereas my other two husbands hardly made up one per cent between them. Poor devils! Oh, Three, why am I so sad about you? Is it, do you think, because you taught me how to laugji?" At that moment Gohar came smirking up to them. He looked at Pelandra with his cold fish eyes, mocking her. Then he turned upon Three and dismissed him curtly with a nod. Number Jliree knew his place; Pelandra's special treatment had not made him indiscreet. He bowed low before Gohar and made a great show of removing his humble person from the mighty one's presence. But he winked at Pelandra as he did so, making her want to laugh, despite the sadness of it all. Pelandra's heart twisted for the youth. Tomorrow she must surely kill him! Her hands trembled with an unusual weakness. "Your presence is requested in the meeting hall," sneer Gohar. "It may be a matter of life or death for you, my dear Pelandra." He sniggered after his revolting fashion. Pelandra ignored him, but she switched over to the automatic control system. She realized that Gohar had been sneaking again. How much had he overheard? She found she was too unhappy to care. L imor was waiting for her, calm and dignified in his robes of office. He had an impressive air of command. His gray, eagle-bright eyes bored into her with the intensity of his visionary insight. He was without a doubt, a king among men. He seemed very grave. "I am most disturbed by a report that you disobeyed my orders and told Three he is to die. You must be aware of the punishment for such a crime. Have you gone mad? Have you forgotten that you swore a sacred oath of secrecy?" Lunor thundered at the cringing woman. "Try to overlook my weakness, my loM," cried Pelandra. "I am not disloyal, I do not wish to betray your trust. It was just that I wanted the boy to know that he would never see me again after tomorrow. Am I not allowed even one fault?" Lunor studied her thoughtfully. "I believe you," he said. "After all, you are a mere babe immortalitywise, so some allowance must be made. I suppose. But please clearly understand that this is your last chance, Pelandra." "I understand," whispered the dejected girl, trembling more violently than ever. "Well?" asked Lunor, his noble face troubled still, for he sensed Pelandra's reluctance for her task. "Don't tell me that I was mistaken in my choice. You still do not wish to operate tomorrow!" "Of course I will operate. Mighty One," insisted Pelan(ha. "I cannot let a hundred years of research be wasted merely because I have fallen in love with a replacement human, can I?" She made her reply scornfully, deeply shocked that Lunor should thus doubt her integrity. But perhaps the old man was wiser than she knew. Pelandra walked wearily to the portal, her beautiful features strained by grief. Her large blue eyes dimmed by pain and longing. All the vitality seemed to have drained from her long, supple limbs. The woman looked, with something akin to hatred, at the man who had made her perfect, who had condemned her to live forever. Pelandra had already received the Life Fluid which would insure that she lived to be at least a hundred and fifty, after which time, the spare part routine would become operable. "Come, we must make our preparations," she said in listless tones. They collected Zor and Gohar, then went on to the operating theater. simplicity," remarked Zor goodnaturedly. "A thirty-five year journey. Six husbands for Pelandra; the eldest being aged twenty at the time of launching; the second, fifteen; the third, ten; the fourth, five; the fifth a babe in arms and the sixth in a test tube to incubate for five years. What a great and wonderful plan!" "Yes," Gohar agreed. "In this way, one husband reaches maturity every five years and is available for replacement purposes and his remains for committal to space and oblivion. Pelandra marries each one of them when he reaches the age of twenty and operates on him five IF years later, after each has given her five children; which Liinor, of course, rears in test tubes." "And these children will provide the first work team on New Earth," cried Zor. That night Three suddenly began to cry because he could not bear the thought of parting from Pelandra. She stroked his brown, curly hair and told him that he would feel no pain; and he was comforted because he trusted her and loved her. Next morning, Pelandra examined the three young-old men, to ascertain which organs needwl replacement. She had already committed Husband Number Three to the deepfreeze machine, and her heart was heavy with grief. Presently Lunor, Zor and Gohar also lay in their own deep-freeze units, like three rather beautiful marble effigies. Waiting for her to use her sharp instruments and laser beams on dear, beloved Number Three! Pelandra looked with pity at Lunor, who for the last ten years had breathed with Number One's lungs. She looked with loathing at Gohar, who had one brown eye of his own and one blue that had belonged to Number Two. Number Two had also provided Zor with a new right leg, and Number One had given him a spleen. Pelandra looked thoughtfully at the three old men, lying so peacefully in refrigeration, and suddenly she smiled. T he women turned a dial, and the solar cells beneath the three units suddenly glowed like great red suns. The temperature gauges went up beyond infinity, and the reading hands broke off because of the intensity of the shock they had suffered. "It will take eternity to unfreeze the three wise men," Pelandra observed to herself, giving one of her rare laughs. Then she slowly went over to the unit which contained Number Three in all his youthful glory. Gently, with great skill and patience, she moved with expert fingers about the dials and switches. It took her three days and three nights to bring him back to glowing, throbbing life. She herself would teach him all the wise men knew except how to live forever! And she would teach her children how to attend to the embryos and safeguard the condensed atmosphere capsule. They would all lead busy, useful lives, but with free minds, not as human robots! Oh, it would be such a happy landing now. And it was. Pelandra's first action on reaching the new planet was to send a message back to Earth telling of her dreadful crime against science. This message would take thirty-five years to reach its destination, and another thirty-five years would be needed for the Galaxy Punishment Force to reach the new planet to retaliate. Pelandra had not a care in the universe, because both she and Husband Number Three would both be safely dead, long before the avenging Earth Forces could make good their atIF  Novelette Old people were dying. Nothing new about that -- but they all died at the same age, and it was getting younger! I X TK)dy mentioned it for a while. Not on a large scale, I mean. A couple of years actually passed before it was noticed as a definite trend. I'd heard other doctors comment, of course. Merely that they seemed to be losing a lot of old patients all of a sudden, for no particular reason. But physicians are so used to death we didn't get excited. It was a hard-working insurance actuary who saw it for what it was. People were just... dying. Old people. Doctors and coroners wouldn't admit to perplexity. They would put down "heart attack" or "stroke" or "heart failure" or "cardiac arrest', or the like. Mostly cardiac arrest. Good old catchall. Think about it. Means the patient's heart stopped beating. Well, I should smile, it did! Did you ever hear of anyone's being dead and his heart still beating? That's an effect, not a cause. When you're dead your heart stops pumping. But something causes that, A bullet. A fall. An illness; cancer, or cerebral hemorrhage. Or a plague. That is, a Plague. The insurance actuary pointed out that the death rate was up -- way up -- among old people. Everything else was still there, of course; men murdering each other with automobiles and slipping in the bathtub and so on. But old people were dying. The oldest. Well, there wasn't anything unusual about that, and I remember even I chuckled. Sure, we knew old age was a disease. We called its cause a virus, which meant we didn't know what it was. A filterable virus... which means the organism was not filterable. We hadn't found it. And since we hadn't found the cause, we certainly hadn't done much about the effect. We had lengthened the lifespan. We could keep a man alive, and we were proud of it. Oh, maybe he was a vegetable, but hurray and so what, we were keeping him alive. The family usually found the money, somehow. But the actuary was one hundred per cent on the beam. The death rate was up among the oldest people, and it was increasing. Today thirty, tomorrow thirty-one, this day next month forty, this day next year sixty-two. I'm using relative figures, you realize. No need to start spouting precise ones. Just consider that in City A, on May #st of #, twenty people died. In #, twtysix died on that same day. In #, thirty-three. All in accord with the population increase; no cause fqf alarm. You have ten people, one dies. You have a hundred, ten die, et cetera. But then it began curving up. T hat actuary was shaken. I'll tell you. He shook the company president, too, and the board of directors. And there's where I came in. I had just been made a director. You know how it goes: you don't mind working, which puts you in a class by yourself. You make money and become pretty well known and make some more money, and all of a sudden you're successful. People think you're pretty smart. They want you to be a director of the United Fund and the school board and a bank and the country club and a hospital and Kiwanis and this and that. Doesn't matter if you're an executive in an aircraft company or a plumbing and heating contractor or a distiller or even an M.D. So I had a chunk of stock and a chunk of permanent life insurance and somehow wound up a director of the Great Coastal Life Insurance Company of America. No, I didn't attend the meetings. Lord, I knew about as much about the life insurance business as I do about quantum mechanics... I can define "quantum" and I can come close to defining "mechanics" -- I think. Anyhow this actuary's report was mentioned in the minutes I received in the mail and I read it and chuckled. So he had discovered that old people were dying! Just tell me if they start dying of scarlet fever or botulism or chicken pox, I thought. Or puerperal fever. Well, then the article showed up in Newsweek five months later. A lot of people Still thought it didn't make sense, but it was the second time I'd seen it, and there I was a professional and... well, I called Roger Calkin at Great Coastal and asked him to send that nutty young actuary of his over. And there it was. The actuary -- Ike Hill -- had by that time started collecting figures from all over the world. All you had to do was look aft them. All deaths were up, naturally. Way up. But... the increases that reached up and slapped you in the eyeball and squeez the pit of your stomach was in the over-# group. It hadn't struck anyone as particularly odd that the Russian Premier, the West German Chancellor and the Speaker all had died within a few months of each other. But they'd had plenty of company. Those three had all been past eighty, and their group was dying by the score, by the thousand, by the tens of thousands. We'd prolonged their lives for them; now they were cashing in one after the other, as if they were crowding each other to prove or disprove their particular faith's belief or disbelief in afterlife. As if they were tired of life, or as if they were trying to make us look bad. Sure, I had that thought. I remember saying, "Hell, Ike Hill, at this rate there won't be anyone over # alive anywhere!" And I was right. It took less than a year. In the meanwhile the world lost seventyor eighty assorted senators, representatives, MP's and what-have-you lawmakers. A king. And even ten presidents, premiers and the like, and one dictator. Several generals. A potful of judges. The Pope. Two-thirds of the Roman Curia. And every Cardinal Archbishop in the world but eleven. Oh, it was great for promotions, and pageants! People were taking notice by then, of course. Someone used the word "plague" in a newspaper story one day, and after that it was The Plague. A lot of people did a lot of theorizing. Hiere was religious gabble and atheist gabble and medical gabble and political gabble-gabble. Over a dozen different men announced over a dozen different causes. One even announced a cure. They were all wrong. Then I found it, and I couldn't think of anyone to call save Ike Hill. II W e got our heads and our figures together. We barely had to glance at them. Of course they weren't completely accurate. It's impossible to learn exactly how many people in the world died or were born last year, or for that matter even twenty years ago'. The ladies of Africa and India and China don't publish announcements every time they have a kid, whether they expose it to die or not, and they don't file death statistics, either. We took the figures over to Ike's IF office and turned on some lights and fed them into the Iron Brain, and it told us what we already knew, which IS about all Iron Brains are good for anyhow. The death rate matched the birth rate. In the United States it exceeded the birth rate. Every time somebody propped a kid on the tail and made him suck up that first highly addictive drag of air, someone, somewhere, gasped his last one. And whatever the cause, it didn't know anything about fair play or national boundaries. The birthrate was highest in Asia. You know which country had the longest life expectancy, don't you? The largest percentage of old people? Uh-huh. The U.S. of A. was rapidly running out of the euphemism I've always hated: "Senior Citizens." (I don't like any euphemism that indicates I'm junior). Even then an extraneous thought went creeping across my mind like a guilty cat: something or somebody -- capitalize that if you want -- was solving the Medicare problem. In a few years, out so many of those government forms for aged patients any more. about all the paperwork involved in Medicare admissions. And my sons wouldn't have the # social security tax I was paying! Frankly Ike Hill and yours truly M.D. didn't know what the hell to do. We just stared at each other and the machine and then went out and found a quiet, dark place to talk. I forgot to call my answering service for the first time in five years. First time I'd got drunk in fifteen years, since I was a freshman in pre-med. Whom do you tell? For maybe three years a plague had been raging across the world, a plague which obligingly passed over people who had lives to live and knocked on the doors of those who'd lived a fair-sized one already. Whom do you tell? No one else knew there was no one, not one single person, anywhere in the world, older than # -- maybe # by then. No one knew that every time an OB checked in at Admittance some oldster checked out of the world. And... if it went on... then by this time next year, there wouldn't be anyone over #, or #, depending upon the international birthrate and the number of people in that age group. Or maybe #, or #. And the next year... whom do you tell? Call Washington and say "Mister President, this is Thomas Jefferson McCabe, M.D., in Atlanta, and pretty soon our country is going to be out of business, populationwise, and by the way you're #, aren't you? Have you ' arranged disposal of your papers?" Ike Hill and I didn't know. So we drank too many gimlets and had to be poured into a couple of taxis and sent home to understanding wives. I n the morning I prescribed the usual ineffectual old wives' tales for myself and held my head carefully as I called A. T. Griffin, M.D., Chief at Good Samaritan Hospital. And I called Michael Rosen, M.D., IP head of the U of G Med School and I managed to get them together in Doctor Griff's office at Good Sam. And I took poor Ike Hill with me and I told them. We told them. Then we showed them. It meant a lot more to them than to us, I assure you... Doctor Griff was sixty-four and Doctor Mike admitted to sixty-seven. And they bought it. They had to. Oh, we thought, and we postulated, and we opined, and we theorized and hoped out loud. But we had the answer. Swell. What to do with it? I felt relieved -- I'd shared it. I'd transferred the weight and the responsibility of the knowledge onto the shoulders of the best two medical father-images I had. I was out of it! Well, I took my first plane ride to Washington. Doctor Mike's doctor said he shouldn't travel -- you think we don't have doctors? Physician, heal thyself! -- or try. And Doctor Griff just wouldn't couldn't. So Mister Ike Hill B.S., M.S., and A. J. McCabe, M.D., flew up to the big town with introductions from thos, two Big Men -- Doctor Griff was 'also president of the Georgia Medical Association and a director of the AM A -- and papers and graphs and reports and analyses and a few inches of computer tape. We got in amazingly fast. My medical friends had done a good job, working personally and through senators and what not. I think it was the President's secretary got us in; he was a Georgian. It's pretty hard for mere people to get an audience with the President of, by, and for the people. Sorry. Gettuig old, as things go now. I'll be forty-five next month. Naturally we wound up with the Surgeon Geral (first time he'd had anything to do in years!) and some fellow from Bethel aind a couple of hotrods from Johns H. and somebody else I later found out was a psychiatrist. Watching us! Ike and me! They had to buy it, too. It's tough to buy truth you don't like. But it's tougher to turn your back on it, and not too smart, either, as Galileo, among others, proved. You can't imagine how they looked. How we felt. What to do? There was the evidence. Now they were in the same leaky dinghy I'd been hand-paddling the past several days. What to do? -- and how? I was relieved, I can tell you that. I'd unshouldered the burden. I had gently laid it at the feet of the boss, the proverbial Authorities, and now I was out from under. And that's how Ike Hill and I got put in charge of Project Methusaleh. That's how I got to be one of the Jaycee's Ten Most that year. I think it would have -- and should have -- been Ike, but there was a choice, and I was a member. F unny thing about the Government Mind. You tell them you know where there's a problem, they right away treat you with respect -- especially if you're in "the American Magicians' Association and have the initials after your name. The schools translate them Medical Doctor. I've always figured they stand for Me Dunno. But everybody else automatically assumes Magic Disipenser. Back to that govermnent mind. It assumes that if you've been smart enough to point out a problem, obviously you're the man to tackle it. Tell the Feds you've found something wrong and they say fine, work on a cure, here's some money (we have lots and lots) and some papers to order some more and a title and some blank progress reports for you to file in triplicate, triweekly. I did have enough sense at least to get a commitment from the President, and get it in writing, my way. Then... funny thing about the human mind (as opposed to the one just mentioned) . Somebody gives you a problem, and you right away do one of three things. Punch the nearest panic button. Fake it. Or find that your mind is hurtling off in ten directions to Get the Job Done. That's what happened to me. Oh, obviously I had no solution. But I had thought of Step One, how to study the problem. We got ourselves ten volunteers. Controls, seven male and three female human beings, aged #. We put 'em in a hospital, third floor of Good Sam, and cleared the rest of the floor. In reverse order; I was careful with those people. My Personal Responsibilities. Sure, there were a lot more women of that age, but the reason I wound up with seven men was the men we interviewed weren't as toUchy about giving their birthdates. We recorded them. I felt a monster, grisly, ghoulish, as I put them down, one under the other, in order: earliest birthdate at the top. Then I did everything. Ran tests. Basal Metabolisms. Those ten people were delighted. Free room service, lots of attention and no cost. And furthermore they could enjoy it; they weren't sick! I'd deliberately picked them in good health (as well as could be expected, considering, as we're fond of saying). I supervised their diets as if they were the first septulets and I had a movie contract riding on them. Decuplets, I guess, under the circumstances -- perish the thought. They lived in near-sterile conditions. Daily checks. Blood pressure. Sistolics. Reactions. Putyour-tongue-and-say-ah. All of it. T hey died. Very neatly, from the top of the list. And I felt ghoulish and grisly, crossing off their names, one by one, from the top, with ugly satisfaction that they were proving me right. Cause of death: cardiac arrest. It was enough to give me back the religion I'd outgrown in med school when I first realized there's no justice in nature. Really. I felt like putting down "God" after Cause of Death. I didn't, nut I didn't write cardiac arrest or natural causes or any of that rot, either. I ters. And plague it was. The Plague. The one we couldn't cure, because it didn't make anyone sick or have any symptoms whatever, and we haven't found a cure for death yet. None of those old people had any symptoms. They just died, peacefully and quietly. Patient Rested Comfortably To THie End. We had permission, and we autopsied to shame all IF previous autopsies. We examined those cadavers more carefully than Leonardo had. Nothing. No bugs. No... well, just nothing. I'd have welcomed a little note: "I decided his time had come and there's nothing you can do about it so go on back to prescribing the Pill and delivering the ones who don't use it on Wednesday-afternoon golf. Your very truly, (signed) Prime Mover." And about that time I had the insane thought. The answer. The only one. Crazy. The aforementioned Pill. ra T here are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, then you and I will ever dope out, so let's start by talking about something we do know. At the beginning of the Christian Era there were about # people in the world. By the middle of the #th Century there # years to double. By the #'s world's population had doubled by AD #. Momentum. Snowball effect. Like compound interest. People didn't have enough sense to stop breeding in the face of overpopulation. It wasn't personal enough. So who's Julian Huxley? Yes, well, how about if it's good and personal? Or bad and personal. Look: every time a baby's born, someone dies. No population explosion, no problem of food and water and lebensraum, or liebensraum either. We could've saved a lot of worry and palaver over that one. Somebody -- go ahead, captalize that: SomeBody had decided the world was full enough. So he -- I mean big h. He had either to stop the income or accelerate the outgo. He chose the second. I had to admit: it was the first time I'd witnessed justice in nature. Population implosion. Oh Lord. The announcement. You remember it. It was... it was awful. Uncle Charlie died yesterday... my God, I'm responsible!... the baby... Uhnhuh. Granddad began to look at his expectant daugjhter as if she were some sort of monster. She wasn't a monster, not realworking on it. Just as soon as she went into the delivery room. That's personal It was horrible. It was elsewhere, too. Oh, everybody corroborated, all over the world. It was simple enough. All the evidence was there, it was just that Ike and I collated it first. I published the results of Control Group I and saw that copies were sent By that time I was into Control Group #: #-and-a-half-year-olds, and I was advertising for a longterm observation: #-year-olds. I tried to think ahead. Take China. The leaders were delighted (until they remembered how old they were). They didn't have to worry about us any more. Not when The Plague would solve their problem. Simple matter of numbers. Mathematics. And there weren't a lot of old people over there to start with (a lot of those pictures you saw of Asian women who looked about # were women with infants, remember?) But... Commimist or not, those people hadn't got completely over venerating the old. For the first time in history Chinese women had a good reason to practice a little conception-control, stopping pregnancies, rather than using the time-honored method of family-size control: merely exposing the infants to die. Getting oneself enceinte was murdering one's venerable grandfather. Same thing in Japan, of course, and Thainambodia and the rest. But we had the worst problem. The Land of Opportunity. We were strong... but outnumbered by all sorts of countries. Mostly enemies. Russia (which really hadn't been an active enemy since the fifties, but... they were always ready) and China. Chou said about mid-century had! But now he didn't need WW us right out of business. He had more children to have more babies, and the old Asian Long View. (Not Chou; he was long dead. I'm talking about Huing, of course.) It became patriotic not to have babies. People damn near stopped. Little Debbie and Jeff -- everybody born in the fifties and sixties was named Debbie and Kevin and Jeffrey -- married and bit their lips and didn't have babies, for poor old Grandpop's sake. Pill business boomed as Geritol sales began to dwindle. But popr old Grandpop hit the magic age and his heart stopped just the same. Debbie and Jeff got mad. It was all very well for us to support the world; to ship wheat to Russia whilst she called us the same old names; to support the UN almost singlehandedly; to send all those goodies to our enemies; to steal Jeff's money to put into Grandpop's pocket -- or rather his physician's pocket. But not having babies was personal. And when it didn't do any good anyhow... well, I used to think we were due for a revolution around #, until I grew up and realized people wanted socialism. But we darn near had one in Year One of The Plague, and not over socialism, either. Over making babies! T here wasn't any way to cover up. Somebody, somewhere, wasn't holding up his end. When oldsters continued to die, when age # became the barrier, everybody knew we were being conned. We weren't having babies. But somebody was. And as soon as Grandpop died -- heck with em! Debbie and Jeffrey couldn't be worried about the Grandpop next door. There was a, as the clicheists say, hue and cry. Meaning one hell of a lot of loud noise. Oh, the noises in the UN! The accusations! Here we'd just grown up enough to admit we'd been covering our pride for an old mistake all these decades, we'd just let China in... and bang! Right off the bat we're jumping all over them in the IP UN! Mister Krishnapur swore his country was cooperating. Mister Vorlonishev said quietly and smugly that his country had always cooperated and certainly hadn't begun cheating now. But Mister Li said the same thing. Somebody was lying. A few African ladies here and there who hadn't got the word couldn't be affecting things the way they were being affected. We had a celebration in the hospital the night of Henry Clark's #nd birthday. Tea and cake in his room. Booze in dixiecups in the resident's lounge later. Henry Clark didn't wake up the next morning. The story got itself put together later, but here's how it happened, in sequence: The Russians had been shook. Really shook. Trigger fingers had never been so itchy before. They were scared we didn't believe them. So for the first time in Lord knows when they invited us -- secretly -- to come in and have a look. They were on the level. Our observers confirmed that the Soviet government had proclidmed reproduction a crime against one's fellow man and, ergo, the State. What was more important, our spies confirmed the observers... Meanwhile Stephen Levee had got out of China, somehow, and brought back photographs and stories. The Chinese were breeding like crazy. Practically at gunpoint. Told that the Americans were doing so. Patriotism: breed, that China may realize her destiny in the world. That sort of thing and threats were stamping out the oldest-veneration which had moved over to the U.S. sometime around #. We didn't even announce it to the UN. For the first time since War Two, Washington and Moscow joined hands and said let's get together and do it together. Secretly. China has been a common threat for years; now it's far worse. Some people just can't be got on with. For the first time since... #, I guess, the United States announced honestly that it was embarking on a war of aggression. Oh, it was selfdefense, of course, and therefore a Holy War. All wars are Holy Wars, to somebody. This one was for Grandad and Grandma and Uncle Elmer. Except it wasn't even a war. Stephen Levee came out of China on April #th. On the #th the President announced that on May I he would make a major speech, and all the Lippmans and HuntleyBrinkleys wondered aloud and in print what he would have to say. Of course they pointed out that he had chosen to speak on the biggest day in the Communist World. What he did was to review the problem, the pleas, the agreements. The UN brawl. Then he displayed Stephen Levee's films and read his reports, word for word, and introduced Levee and Mister Vorlonishev and talked awhile and then announced that the governments of the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had declared war on the People's Government of China. Retroactively: the buttons had been pushed and the planes had swung Chinaward before his speech began. IV r ie Chinese were busily celebrating May Day. Peking was full of aircraft and missiles and troops and tanks, parading under the eyes of Huing and hundreds of thousands of people, all of whom had of course gathered spontaneously; one assumed the Red Guards were directing traffic. Just as spontaneously they went to join their revered ancestors before Huing even heard about the President's speech. Peking wasn't hit with one bomb. The Chinese missile bases weren't hit with one bomb each. The missiles came from half-a-dozen different directions and the bombs came from aircraft whose white stars and red stars had been effaced and replaced with big UN insignia. The whole operation was unbelievably successful, mainly because China had always known we'd never do it. A missile got through and removed Colorado Springs and a tremendous chunk of mountain from our map. Two submarines sent four missiles streaming in toward Washington and New York, and miracle of miracles all that propaganda from Denver was on the level; we were able to stop them! Not to mention the submarines. Rand-McNally started working on new maps; the old ones, showing China, were obsolete. Norad began reorganizing. Re-aiming. The Russians were terribly sorry they'd goofed and sent Formosa down to join Atlantis, but little mistakes will happen, as Ve used to say when we napahned our own troops every now and again. There was one hell of a -- sorry, here comes the cliche again -- hue and cry in the UN. Then there were a lot of very big goggle eyes when Mister Vorlonishev and Mister Davis and the President stood up and said okay, we attacked them and we damn near destroyed China and what are you going to do about it? There were plenty of warheads and planes and silos left, and the allied nations of forced. They weren't forced. The Aussie -- funny -- was the first to jump up and say he was going to call home and recommend his government broaden the alliance to three. By the time he was through there were so many delegates clamoring for recognition to climb aboard that the Secretary-General had to call for a general motion to save time. He got it. There was amazing unity. A month later we celebrated William Michaels's #st birthday, and he woke up the next morning, too. B ut everyone seemed to have celebrated the "war" in the same way. Nine months later, on approximately February #, Granddads started dropping dead again. And in a few months it was all back again and in a few years life expectancy (certainty!) was below #, and Senator Martin -- age # -- introduced a bill to cut Social Security takeouts by two-thirds. He even IF managed to smile and say he'd never collect anyway. As far as we can see now the population of Planet Earth must remain constant at approximately five we've come in our figures is #, and we've gotten that figure three times. Apparently either the Prime Mover didn't share our regard for numbers or he counted differently. Maybe he .meant for us to have six fingers. Somehow everybody just gave up and let it ride. For possibly the first time in history the young got their way. Twice the old managed to get us in war-shape again, and both times the young got together and said nothing doing. We learned pretty quickly that you don't have wars if tihe senators are invited to go, both nations involved, say no. And when they suggest that if overgrown children insist on settling things by violence, let's try the old method: personal trial-by-combat... I The President and the Prime Minister backed down pretty fast while the rest of us guffawed at the editorial cartoons. They might as well have gone along. Within a year die Plague had got them both anyhow. Meanwhile a lot of us were looking for answers. Why? Okay. There was a rule: another Natural Law; really a restatement of the old one: survival, after all, of the fittest. This law said there shall not be more than approximately #x# personnel in existence on Plan Earth at any one time. Fine, Why? I figured once again we had ourselves an effect, not a cause. Effect: the Plague. Causative effect: our having reached such-and-such a population figure. Causative effect: There Shall Not be more than suchand-such many people. But it was an effect, not a cause. Okay. Why? Well, here's a theory. If it doesn't happen to agree with your religion, that's tough; make up your own theory. Plenty of people have made up their own religions. This one represents the thinking of a lot of people over a lot of centuries. It's been the basis for a lot of religions both before and since Christianity. There was some truth to the Mystery Religions -- certainly Paul respected them highly. There is some, too, in Christianity, in Judaism, Buddhism and. Islam. Mostly Buddhism, I guess. It was in Christianity, too, originally; called Gnosticism. The early Christians stamped it out. Too hard to sell. Isn't that just like Man trying to interpret God? Those first several centuries were mostly salesmanship centuries, and the Roman state religion and Mithraism were tough foes. Even so the original concepts may have remained if the Empress Theodora hadn't so adamantly stamped them out. And even so the whole new faith might have gone by the board if the Emperor Julian hadn't got himself killed in battle just when he was starting to stamp out Christianity. There s a death I'd like to investigate!) Reincarnation. The ring of return. You die, but your life-force or soul or whatever you wish to IF call it keeps coming back. Oh, not as bugs or cattle; your life-force is a mind, and enters only human beings. Without memories, usually. Except ieople who have funny djcams in full color... or wind up nuts on some period of history without knowing why. Easy. You were there, once. L ook, just keep your mind on Hamlet's words that there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy. And try to remember that a closed mind is pretty much like a closed door... there can't be much traffic, either way. The idea is we have to try, over and over, no matter how long or how many corporate lives it takes, to be "good enough to retire" (I'm simplifying, naturally). If you commit six crimes (let's keep it straight and say "against nature," and I'm not talking about that implied definition of "Crimes against Nature" lurking like rattlesnakes in our lawbooks, either. Men pretend to be so horrified by Sodom and Gomorrah they won't even use the words... yet nowhere in that old book does it say what the crime of those two cities was! For all we know it may have been over-defoliation or water or air pollution; those are crimes against nature, aren't they?) Anyhow, if you conunitted six crimes in life #I while you were Babble-babble of Memphis in # BC, you've got to compensateatone for them somewhere, somewhen else. Your life-force seeks atonement, whether you as Babble-babble do or not. As B-b you died and your lifeforce (go ahead and use soul if you feel you must) hung around without drawing a new body until # BC. There weren't many bodies around then, remember; there was a long wait between assignments. You became a Hellenic peasant. You "atoned" for three of the crimes, but committed two new ones before you died. You've moved up one notch. You've got five bad deeds to wipe off the master ledger. But... you will have the opportunity; the man said you would be born again, didn't he? You think he meant by being splashed a little? As a Pfc. under Titus you held your own. You died. Your ego waited around some more, still with five black marks. Back in Memphis you had killed without mercy and had died of old age as a lot of the sword... that time. Sometime. Someplace. As a serf or maybe as a woman accused of witchcraft in the Middle Ages you had such a hard time you cut e tally down to two. Surely there are special rules for those murdered in the name of God. Maybe you were lucky enough to be sworded. You came back as Rudolf Schickner, say chief gas man at Auschwitz. Oops. Back to the end of the line. Next time you came back as... well, that's the system, anyhow. And of course you're coming back a lot more frequently now. That's the whole point. At the beginning, whatever and whenever that "is," all life-forces were made. All the souls. All of them. None has been createdactivated since. Yes. You get the point. There the world by #, either, or AD #. There never will be. All the souls have been used up. D on't call me a mystic. Try to open up your mind a little, let the light shine on the cobwebs of preconceptions. And remember I've had 'no religion save Ad major em hominis gloriam since I was # years old. And, if you don't like that theory, think up another. So here we are. No more interviews with Mrs. #-years-old. The wastebaskets at the bank aren't full Boxesa of unstamped brown enevelopes at the first of the month any more. There aren any old folks sitting around barbershops or on the courthouse steps or post-office steps any more. The old folks' homes with the cute names are closed down. You can buy Geritol stock with nickels and dimes. Companies have to advertise for night watchmen, and some of them don't have gray hair. In another fifty years, maybe, the Social Security Administration will be out of the red. Right now they're sending out a fourth of the checks they were thirteen years ago. Do? Nothing. I don't think you can. Oh, I may be wrong, but I've got plenty of agreement. Sure, maybe you can find a way out of it. Maybe colonize another planet we can add certificates for a while... while we get more ships ready. I don't think or take a few, for keeps. Holding, situation no-go. It's up to you. Sure, there'll be a stop. A temporary one, anyhow. When it reaches the point that parents give birth and both die the instant twins are born, it will be over for a while. And maybe somebody will start acting sensibly. But unless you stop horsing around you're going to have a life expectancy of twenty and then fifteen and then Lord knows what, eventually. Meanwhile I intend playing a lot of golf and doing a lot more reading. ni be forty-five next month, and life expectancy's down to fiftyIF IF  Novelette A Ticket to Zenner Larrow had only one hope of escape: to fake a new identify. Too bad the new one was even more hotly pursued! I Larrow rolled over, trying A to escape the hands and voices. But there'd been a stinging in his left arm, and now some stimulant was invading his blood, driving out the earlier poison, rallying him. Awareness grew. Painfully, he rolled onto his back and got his eyes open. The blob above him resolved itself into the chubby white-furred face of Wioon Lek, hs Meroban employer. "What... where..." Another Meroban, with the manner of a doctor, said in his rumbling voice, "A few moments, man Larrow. Lie still. You will be strong." Tom sighed and lay back. His head ached like the devil, and there was a bitter sickening taste in his mouth. He let his eyes focus and saw that he was in Ws own apartment in the Lek compound, where he'd been Living these two years on Merob. Wioon Lek's round face relaxed into the all-embracing Meroban smile. "This is marvelous, Tom! Here we'd closed up shop in mourning, and all the time you were here! What happened?" Tom looked at him for a moment in puzzlement. Sometimes he still didn't grasp a Meroban idiom completely. Suddenly, Wioon's question triggered memory. He jerked up to a sitting position, got his feet off the bed and hauled himself upright, unsteadily. "I was gassed, that's what happened! I opened the door, and a cloud of something hit me in the face! I remember doubling over and coughing, then I fell!" He took four unsteady steps toward the closet, reached in and fumbled in the breast pocket of his over jacket. He sighed with relief. "Good. For a moment I thought maybe my passport and ticket -- " He went silent, staring at the passport. The picture on it was of a human, but it was the face of a stranger. Anger seized him. He threw the ticket and passport down on the bed. "It was robbery! Somebody switched on me! Well, he made a mistake leaving his own papers! When I catch up with him -- " Wioon was staring at him. Suddenly the Meroban burst out, "But of course! You do not know; you have been not conscious all the time!" He made a gesture that was both aghast and pious. "Peace on the stranger. Friend Tom, and do not be in a hurry to catch up with him. Obviously he stole your ticket because the ship Vreyol Kway was going direct to Earth. But Vreyol Kway blew up just as she was beginning to accelerate out of orbit." He sigh, then broke into the smile again. "But that is his misfortune and your good luck, and ours!" Wioon's pudgy three-digited hand went to a pocket, pulled out a jackphone. "I must share the good news!" Then, with the flat, rectangular instrument near his bps, he stopped. "But wiait." He ambled over to a chair and lowered his squat, broad form into it. "I must think." Tom stood impatiently. Finally he said, "What's there to think about, sir? I'm sorry to hear about the ship. But I've still got to get offplanet fast. Unless, under the circumstances, they'd extend the deadline for me." Wioon's tiny flesh-enfolded eyes blinked in negation. "The Fists will make no such allowance. They'll be all the more furious, because the disaster will anger not only Vreyol, but Earth. There were sixty humans aboard, you know. Friend Tom, that is not why I am worried. Do you not see? You, of all the passengers, did not catch the ship. Therefore you will be suspected of some complicity." T om stared at him for a moment. Wioon was right; the Fists were nervous in their newly seized power. "Well, danm it..." He stepped to the bed and picked up the documents. "This ticket my unknown benefactor left... Obolis, for Zenner Hell. Directly away from Earth. But at least it's a transfer point. And it's all I'll get, this late." He frowned at the passport. "But IF he didn't look like me at all. A lot darker, and plump in the cheeks. Santos Yberra was his name." He looked up at Wioon. "I suppose it was a decent gesture, leaving these, hut how could I possibly use them? The ticket's in his name, and I'd have to show the passport." Wioon eyed him thoughtfully. "I shall guess that he expected you to get the picture altered. Just as he must have altered yours. Obviously, he knew various things about you. And about me, since he was able to sneak into the compound and ambush you in your own apartment. He was no bumpkin. I must shake up my security forces again, yes?" Tom said uncertainly, "Well, it's my mess, sir. You've got trouble enough of your own, with the Fists suspecting everybody of being counterrevolutionists." Wioon held up a pudgy whitefurred hand. "No, no, you're still my employee. I'm depending upon you to keep my affairs alive on Earth. And eventually... well, the Fists will not be in power forever. But let us think. Technicians can alter the passport photograph. But even then. I'm apprehensive about your using that ticket." "Why?" "Consider, Friend Tom. Why did this burglar leave it? Not charity, I think. He was desperate to be off Merob a day early. That suggests that someone was after him, or at least that he needed to cover his trail. If you use his ticket you are the decoy, yes?" Tom rubbed at his throbbing temples; "Oh, I don't know, and I don't care. Can't we find out who he was?" Wioon looked unhappy. "I shall try, of course. But with things in such a mulligan... Well, first things first, yes? Let's get that photograph replaced with yours." He raised the jackphone and spoke close to it at some length; thought a moment and added, "Ends. Second message. To Technician Daal Jhee. Wioon speaks. Can you favor us with your presence in man Larrow's apartment at once, utmost secret? Ends." He heaved himself out of the chair, waddled over to the nearest wall receptacle and pushed the prong end of the phone into it. The two messages would flash to their destination by wire. Tom, as much Meroban as Terran in his thinking now, said automatically, "Whatever I can do to unburden myself of this debt..." Wioon waved off the thanks. "No, no, it is nothing." Then he looked thoughtful. "Zenner... yes, it could go via Zenner. There is one small favor you could perform. Friend Tom. I have promised an old comrade to get an heirloom to him safely. A thing of only moderate value, but dear to him. My agent on Zenner -- Paib Salang; you have met him -- will recognize it and know where to send it." He frowned in thought. "I do not want to endanger you. Being an heirloom of the Dynasty, it would cause the Fists to be harsh with anyone taking it off-planet." He smiled abruptly. "But it can be disguised. It is only a finger-ring. A plastic overlay upon the gem, with your initials on it in Terr an script. And soft IF metal added to the inside of the band, with Terran inscriptions. If you will wear it at all times... "Of course," Tom said. He could swallow his aversion to rings. Wioon beamed. "Well, then." He glanced toward the door, his stubby white-furred ears twitching. "Daal arrives. I will see you before you leave; now I must go and tend to the ring. Best -- do you not think -- you stay here until your escort comes? I can assure your safety to the port, I believe. And Obolis is a Boklan ship, so the Fists will not dare tamper with her. And no phone calls, yes? It must not be known you are still alive." D aal, with whom Tom had worked, was about Wioon's height -- barely five feet -- but slightly less broad. He peered at the photograph. "Yes, I can fix it, in two hours. Is there that much time?" Tom nodded. Obolis doesn't leave until near midnight. What will you have to do?" Daal tapped the plastic document with a thumb. "Grind this away carefully, until the picture is gone. Spray on sensitized plastic, imprint your picture, cover it with more plastic and put the whole thing in a hot press. It will stand casual inspection. It will not pass examination with fluoroscopes or such. This passport seems to have been made on Vreyol. I cannot counterfeit their plastic or the antifraud patterns." Tom said, "Fll have to risk it. If I don't get off-planet, it's prison camp or worse anyway. How about the description?" "The height is close enough -- fiveten against your tfive-eleven. And who can guarantee weight, travelling among different races? Or the degree of skin tan, in your case? There's only the color of your eyes to worry about. But I'll print your picture a little dark, so the gray might be interpreted as black." "All right," Tom said. "Wioon mentioned escort to the field. Do you know about that?" Daal's wide mouth drooped. "I am to go. Also a policeman, ostensibly gone over to the Fists but actually still in our employ. Excuse me now, please." II spent an hour going through A his luggage to get rid of all identifying marks. He interrupted that to listen to a newscast. The big story, of course, was the ship disaster. Vreyol Kway had disintegrated so completely there were few corpses to identify. The crew of a trashboat, the last to leave her, was in custody and no doubt being interrogated. Various other ships in orbit, including Obolis, had veered to avoid the spreading mess of radioactive debris. There was no reaction from the Vreyolan ambassador -- it would be many hours before the news reached Vreyol, and as many more before anything came back. Vreyol was populated by the same race as Merob, but X)l ideally separate. It wasn't as potent as Bokl, which had a near-monopoly on commercial shipping and travel among the nearby stars, but the Fists didn't want Vreyol's enmity. The ill-will of Earth hardly mattered. In space, Terra was still small potatoes. He returned to his baggage and got it repacked. Then he paced the apartment restlessly, a plastijar of Meroban beer in his hand. It seemed hours before a chime came from the door. He glanced at the viewer and saw Wioon's beaming image. "Come." The door slid open, and his employer waddled in. "Things are going well. Friend Tom. Daal has done a fine job with the passport. I've been able to arrange for you to go aboard the shuttleboat promptly, with a group of other passengers who have all been identified, so there'll be no delay." He glanced at Tom's three valises. "All ready, yes? We'll send those on aliead so they'll be inspected and put in your stateroom. You'll have a pleasant trip; the Bokla are great hands at making comfort. You'll have to be watchful, of course." He fished in a pouch of his apron-belt -- the only garment most Merobans wore indoors -- and pulled out a heavy finger-ring. "Try it on, yes?" Not too happily, Tom slid it on the largest finger of his left hand. It was snug. He stared at the initials on the stone. "What -- oh, of course. S. Y. I'm not supposed to be Tom Larrow, am I?" Wioon regarded him gravely out of almost-closed eyes. "You must not lapse. You are Santos Yberra, until Paib Salang can smuggle you to safety. Oh, did I not tell you -- identify yourself as Code Nine Four Seven. That will inform Paib he is to extend you unlimited account and. assist you to Earth. You and he will work out arrangements fqr the immediate future of my Earth trade, yes? I expect to route it through Zenner for a while, but I dare not leave Merob myself just now." He held out a whitefurred hand. "Daal will be here before long to take you to the port. Until next we meet, yes?" T he gray-uniformed Fist at the turnstile gave the passport a hard look, lifted his head to peer at Tom and brusquely waved him through. At the foot of the escalator to the shuttleboat waited a Boklan officer in a very neat white uniform. He was long of torso and neck, short-limbed in proportion, with a face that was mostly nose or muzzle. He gave the passport one swift scrutiny, nodded down at Tom from his seven-foot-plus height and said in good Meroban, "Favor us by boarding, man Yberra, yes?" Tom waited his turn at the escalator, which was crowded. Halfway up he turned to look back. He was in time to witness a swift, shocking episode. Daal and the helmeted policeman who'd flown them here were standing against the rear wall of the vast chamber. A sudden bellow of the loudspeaker system made them look up, with the rest of the crowd. An instant later, squads of Fist troopers in their gray uniforms burst into the chamber, carrying short ugly weapons. Tom saw Daal's eyes squeeze shut in anguish, then the technician was running with the deceptive Meroban gait. The crowd erupted with IF cries of fear and became a mob, surging away from the action. Troopers swiveled, aiming their guns at Daal. A dozen or more blinding, spitting beams converged on him, aiming for the lower legs. Tom heard his scream above the tumult. The technician went tumbling and lay in a writhing knot, his legs nothing but blackened stumps. Tom was shouting in English, "No! No!" and fighting to get back down the escalator, but the panicking passengers behind him bore him along before them. He grabbed the rail and clung. He saw the policeman who'd come with him and Daal stare fixedly at the crippled technician. Suddenly Daal's head seemed to burst. Now there was panic among the troopers. They spun, darting frantic looks around, some of them firing their beamers wildly. The helmeted policeman stood against the wall, his eyes moving in jerks, to remain fixed for an instant at a time. A trooper's head burst open, and this time Tom saw the small hphen of incandescence that caused it. Two more troopers went down. A Meroban near Tom shouted in terror, "The Elite! A Stare!" Five troopers were dead now, but the others had found the source of the terrible weapon. Beams converged on the policeman, and he went down in a blackened heap that stiiTed for only a moment. Limp with horror, Tom was carried up the escalator, wedged in among the short but heavy Merobans, who comprised most of the passenger Hst. At the top, a whiteuniformed Bokl was urging, "This way, please! This way!" Tom went numbly where he was directed, found himself in a lounge, let himself be guided to a seat. The decor and furniture were Meroban. Somehow he answered a Bokl steward. "Dis-distilled spirits, with hampa juice." He sat, automatically sipping the sweet-tart drink. After a while a Meroban came and sat down across the small table from him. "Please, may I? An awful thing, yes?" "Tm nodded, then remembered X the Meroban gesture of palmsup. The Meroban stared at Tom's hands. "Five digits, just as they say. Excuse me. I am Ussmed, a modest businessman. Unless you have been on Merob a long time, you have not seen the Stare before, yes?" Tom managed, "Uh, no. I'd heard rumors, of course. But I thought the Elite were all hunted out." The Meroban squeezed his eyes shut. "So did the Fists. But obviously at least one escaped. Like sorcery, is it not? But quite technological. Did you notice that before he died, the Elite exploded his own head and the helmet?" "No. I -- I wasn't in position to see very well." "He did," the Meroban said. "They all did. And the secret died with them. Not one went over to the Fists, you know. The helmet, of course, looks exactly like an ordinary police one. But in addition to the radio, there is a lot more built in. The energy is translocated to the target in somewhat the same way a ship is translocated between the stars. That much is known. But the talk is that the whole technology would fill a great many books. As to know how the eyes are made to serve as rangefinders, and how the weapon is triggered, you can hear as many theories as you like. Some say the helmet reads the natural muscle movements and nerve impulses. Others say tiny instruments are implanted in the Elite's head. One thing is certain -- a long period of training was needed. I had a nephew who took it, though of course he would not tell me so. He died in the coup." The Meroban made a gesture of sorrow. "I guess you are angry with the Fists for hustling you off Merob, yes?" Tom's mind was beginning to work again. He mustn't forget his pose, or that this stranger might not be an innocent businessman. Wioon had dug out a little of Yberra's history. "I've only been on the planet a short time, and hadn't made any connections. I'd probably have been leaving anyway." The Meroban asked, "Have you business on Zenner?" "No, except that I may look for work there. Excuse me; I'm Santos Yberra. I call myself a distribution engineer. Actually my trade involves a knowledge of packaging, preservation, shipping and so on. I'd hoped to find work on Merob, but didn't." Ussmed said, "Things have not been normal. But Zenner is a good prospect. The Bokla settled it as a transfer point, you know. What industry there is supports shipping and travel. Excuse me, perhaps I am boring you. Perhaps you have been to Zenner before?" "No. Only Vreyol and Merob, outside the Terran planetary system."  "I see. Well, excuse me, yes? I must get to my stateroom. Perhaps we can talk again." O bolis was cylindrical, four times as long as her diameter -- a proportion that, as she accelerated with her axis along the line of flight, was foreshortening; at the velocity needed for translocation, she would fit well enough into the spherical TL field. Acceleration would require a little less than eighty Terran hours. Deceleration, near Zenner -- assuming TL was perfect -- would take an equal time. TL itself would occupy only a few painstakingly calculated minutes. Tom's stateroom was about a third of the way back from the nose, and against Superwall C; which meant it was the nearest of the eight rooms on his radial corridor to the lounges, dining rooms, theaters and such in the core of the ship. Also, it placed him farthest of the eight from the outer Superwalls -- an advantage, theoretically, though even in the extremely rare event of a debris-hit, damage would hardly penetrate within Superwall B. The stateroom was luxurious, of course. Compared to the cost of accelerating and translocating a ship, the accommodations didn't count. His total floorspace was about fifteen by thirty-five feet, divided into a parlor, bedroom, bath and kitchenette. With his mind still mainly on the episode at the spaceport, he prowl about the quarters, looking at the alien fittings. IF Things were marked in Boklan, which he couldn't read, but little self-adhesive tags had been stuck on, giving Meroban translations. He fiddled with the grav controls, set tliem back to point seven G. He opened the refrigerator door and peered inside. There were a few basic rations -- dried stuff in plastic, a shelf of seasonings, a package of plastic bags in case he wanted to store food. He could buy a wide variety of stuff aboard, if he wanted to cook, which he didn't. He went back to the sitting room. He found himself idly calculating cubic feet. Certainly a lot of cargo could be stored in here. There was far more living space than two or three people would need. But that was deliberate. Some passengers needed it, to forget that they were in a capsule of steel with all of ruthless space just outside. Even the corridors (his back door opened onto a second one) gave no hint that the stateroom was one or more than a thousand packed between Superwalls B and C. You only saw eight at a time. He dialed a seascape for one of the vistawalls and sat half watching it for a while, then irritably tuned out the surf sound and went looking for the radio receiver dials. He found they were on the same panel that controlled the lights. Obolis was well away from Merob now, but the newscasts could still overtake her. There were reports, as had become usual recently, of Dynasty plots foiled and a 'highly edited account of the affair at the port. Tom was about to tin the stuff off when somethinig caught his attention. The announcer was saying, " -- new developmenits in the deaii of the eminent industrialist and importer, Wioon Lek." Tom froze, halfway out of his chair. The voice went on, "Government sources confirm the reports of suicide. It is now revealed, though, that traces of poisons other than the one that killed him have been found in his blood. One pharmacologist states tibat these are of a type used in interrogation of unthere are signs that Wioon wias not alone at the time of his death. "There is no hint of how these so-called 'truth serums' may have been admioistered. However, it has been discovered that the suicide poison was in a small capsule surgically implanted in Wioon's tongue. The industrialist was able to kill himself by biting on it. "A Government spokesman has suggested that Wioon was the victim of counter-revolutionaries, and that he died rather than reveal secrets they might have used. "Control of Wioon's vast economic empire has been assumbed by the Government pending decisions." The report turned to something else. Tom slowly walked over and turned it off. He stood in a daze, trying to realize it was not just words he'd been hearing -- Wioon was really dead. His mind refused to accept it. He saw Wioon as he'd last seen him -- furred hand extended in farewell, round face beaming, full of life. "No," he muttered, "it's some propaganda story. Some trick!" But he knew, of course, that it wasn't. He went back and sat down, staring without attention at the surging seascape. He had no idea how long he'd sat there before the stateroom com pinged. At the second ping he mustered himself. "Yes?" "Passenger Yberra?" "Yes. What do you want?" "This is Fourth Officer Hweki. A small question has arisen. Would it be convenient for you to come to my office, bringing your identity papers? A crewman will arrive shortly to guide you." Ill #T)lease sit down, man Yberra." I Hweki himself had only half arisen, probably because he didn't want to tower over his visitors. The second visitor, seated to one side of the desk, was the Meroban Ussmed. Hweki's eyes and forehead, at least, were passably humanoid. The rest of his face was mostly a long nose -- or muzzle; the mouth was a mere line below the flaring nostrils; the chin no more prominent than a dog's. The ears were pointed and mobile, covered with short gray fur like the rest of his face. The irises of eyes were light yellow, with contrasting black pupils. The neck was a full twelve inches long, sturdy but flexible. His uniform was white, with green piping, very neat. The only insignia was on the right breast, the Bokl Lines mark of two intersecting circles. Each side of the green collar bore the Boklan numeral four. Hweki looked at Tom along his muzzle for  minute, gravely, but without discourtesy, then continued in excellent Meroban. "It is a rule of the Line, passenger Yberra, that any accuser must face the accused. Passenger Ussmed is an agent of the Meroban Government. He has a list of passengers and data on some. He informs me that there is no record of anyone named Santos Yberra arriving on Merob." Ussmed, who was angry but trying to hide it, said placatingly, "It is not necessarily an accusation, man Yberra. I merely report a discrepancy. It is my duty." If a Bokl could have smiled, Hweki obviously would have done so. "Can you explain, passenger Yberra?" There seemed to be a hard lump in Tom's stomach. "I only arrived less than three divs ago. There's been a lot of records lost, or destroyed, in that time." "From where did you arrive, please?" "From Vreyol." "Could I see your passport?" Tom slowly handed the document across the desk. Ussmed was leaning forward, trying to see. Hweki raised his muzzle toward Tom. "May I?" At Tom's nod, he handed Ussmed the passport. The Meroban peered at it a while. "It looks genuine. But a scientific examination... " Hweki held out a four-digited hand. "We'll give it that, of course. It will only take a few minutes." He pressed one of a row of studs on his desk, then dropped the passIF port into a slot. "Also we'll send a message drone to Vreyol. An answer should be at Zenner by the time we're within radio range. Meanwhile, passenger Ussmed, could you detail your suspicions?" Ussmed scowled, then rumbled, It is sufficient crime if this Terran arrived on Merob, or left, under a false name. By treaty, I ask that you deliver him to the Meroban embassy as soon as we reach #nner." Hweki inclined his head politely. "If I am convinced. Perhaps you have guessed, passenger Yberra, that I am ship's Security Officer. In the Meroban, and I think the Terran idiom, a spy. I will give you a copy of ship's regulations if you wish, so you may know my duty and your rights." Tom said, "No, thank you." The two aliens sat watching him for a minute, or maybe they were just waiting. Finally there was a ping, and the passport popped from the slot, with a note clipped to it. Tom sat with dull dread as Hweki read the note. The Bokl aimed his muzzle first at Ussmed, then at Tom. "This is a genuine Vreyolan passport. There is no sign of any tampering." U ssmed was on his feet, trying to control his anger. "I ask that this man be confined, and that our technicians be allowed to examine the passport when we reach Zenner." Hweki said mildly, "We are all confined here aboard ship, yes? As to the passport, I wjll neither agree nor refuse now. Before we arrive, we will have been in contact with my own government and will have heard from Vreyol." Ussmed stood a moment, then said curtly, "With your permission." Without waiting for it, he walked to the door. He didn't quite slam it behind him. Tom got to his feet, bewildered at his reprieve. Hweki said, "Please? A question or two." Tom sat down again. The Bokl looked along his muzzle thoughtfully. "Ussmed has repeated his conversation with you, so I know a little of your background. You were seeking employment on Merob, yes? And in your line, Wioon Lek, Chartered, was the most important firm. Did you apply there?" Tom said carefully, "Yes. But this Fist thing came up..." Hweki inclined his head. "Unfortunate timing. Have you heard that Wioon himself is dead?" "I... heard a newscast about it." Hweki glanced at an instrument on the wall. "We are out of newscast range now, though we still have an official beam. Thank you, passenger Yberra. I am very sorry this has come up." Tom left, his mind churning. What about the passport? Was Hweki holding back something? Had they actually found the tampering? And what other irregularities might be turned up on Vreyol? Santos Yberra seemed to have been the kind to wallow in irregularities. Shoud Tom turn back and tell Hweki the whole thing? He couldn't see how he dared. It would still put him in the hands of the Fists. Besides, there was still Paib Salang. The Fists would hardly be able to to move in on Wioon's holding, except on Merob, right away. Paib could probably still get Tom to Earth. And there was the fingerring. He felt of it absently as he walked slowly along a corridor. Wioon had wanted to get it to its owned. Tom owed him that and a lot more. In any case, it would be foolish to turn himself in now. There were many hours left before TL, and many more before they reached Zenner. He should at least preserve the option. He glanced around. Right now he didn't want the solitude of his stateroom. Somewhere he'd passed a lounge, on the way to Hweki's office... He found a directory-sign and arrows, and followed them to the lounge. He could certainly use a drink. I t was part of Boklan Lines service to have lounges and dining rooms reflecting a variety of cultures. All the numerous lounges and dining rooms, though, were also serving Meroban items on this trip, since the passengers were practically aU Meroban. He found a stool at the bar and told the polite Boklan bartender, "Spirits, with hampa juice." He sat morosely, sipping and letting his eyes rove around. A lot of cargo space in here, too. He looked around for the air-conditioning vents. Well placed, and ample. This ship inade Meroban and Vreyolan ships look primitive and Earth's few ships downright miserable. The tank of greenery at one end of this lounge, under the actinic lights -- that alone almost equaled the total hydroponics of any Earth ship. He turned and looked into the darkened end of the room. There were tables there, some of them screened, where a scattering of Merobans sat talking and drinking. Their voices were a low bass murmur. He could almost imagine he wasn't in space at all. This could be some peaceful lounge on Merob, 'before the trouble, quiet, luxurious, faintly scented with something like lavender. The Bokla had been in the business a long time, of course. But it was no wonder they dominated it. He jumped as a human voice behind him said in English, "Your hands. They always stare at your hands." He turned. A man was standing there, smiling. He was a little shorter than Tom, rather slight, blond, with young blue eyes. "Mind if I sit down?" Tom said automatically, "Of course not. What about my hands?" The man slid onto a stool. "Good to hear English again! I'm Renfrow Cull an. People call me Cull, unless I owe them money, or they want to borrow it. I don't mean your hands in particular; I mean, human hands. The bartender was just staring at mine. You'd think five digits were a violation of natural law." IF Tom foimd himself glad of human company. "I'm Santos Yberra. I knew there were other people aboard, but you're the first I've run into." Cullan called to the bartender, "Two of whatever he had." He pointed to Tom's glass. To Tom, he said, "I saw you when you came aboard. Ugly thing back there, wasn't it?" Tom nodded slowly. "As ugly as I want to see. I don't think I really bdieved in the Elite weapon until I saw it." Cullan said, "Same here. How long were you on Merob? I never saw you around." Tom said carefully, "Less than three divs." Cullan looked absently around the room. "They sure move a lot of drinks during a trip. I was on Merob over a year." He named a city a few hundred miles from Port City. "They've got an Earth ecology farm there, and I was a caretaker. I studied botany in school on Earth, took an exam and was lucky enough to land this job. Well, it's over now. Say, you going to eat?" "I suppose so." Cullan slid off the stool. "We can get a table right here. I've heard of a couple of Boklan dishes I want to try. Okay?" "Okay. Sure." T om let CuUan's offhanded breeziness carry the conversation. It wasn't absorbing, in his present state of mind, but it wasn't bothersome either. The food was good. They had two more drinks apiece after the meal. Finally, Tom got a little tired of the chatter. "Do you mind if we call it a night? I'm pretty tired." Cullan looked at his watch. "So am I. Are you keeping Marob time?" "I guess so. As long os the ship does." "Well, maybe you'll join us at breakfast? There's a group of six of us, all English-speaking, who've gotten together, in a restaurant where they've got a supply of something very much like hen's eggs. I've taught them how to scramble them." Tom got up. "Maybe I'll see you." He lay awake a long time, thinking. Then, unable to stand the doubt, he turned on a light and got up to examine the passport. It did him no good, of course. He went back to bed. What had happened to Wioon? The newscasts, of course, were censored. Probably, he thought, the Fists had tried to interrogate the tycoon, and he'd taken the hard way out. But that would imply a bigger thing than Tom's passport. So would Daal's martyrdom at the spaceport, and the Elite policeman's. Diat latter opened up a new path of thought. If an Elite policeman had been working with Wioon, there might be more of them. There might be a whole underground, with Wioon a link. Certainly, there were rumors enough flying around Merob; and the Fists were very nervous. If so, Tom wouldn't have blamed Wioon a particle. It was a bitter thought that the jovial tycoon might have been tripp up merely because he'd gone out of his way to help Tom. Well, it was over and done now. All Tom could do was try to get to Paib Salang. He'd stood solitude in the past easily enough; now he found it very uncomfortable. He decided he'd join Cullan's group for breakfast. Somehow, eventually, he slept. IV #yver here!" Cullan waved to him from a table. By the time Tom got there, the blond man had a space cleared for him. "This is Santos Yberra, folks. Santos, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Ludlow; Jim Cresmer; Hal Oakley; Bud Vollander. I was telling Santos last night -- if we could get all thirty of the humans aboard together, we could organize a society. Human Exiles From Merob." Vollander was a thickset, dark man of middle age, with a Teutonic accent. He frowned. "That is not a subject for jokes, after Vreyol Kwayr Cullan looked startled, then embarrassed. "I forgot. Sorry. Well... the six of us here were hoping to get the same ship off Zenner. How about you, Santos? Going straight on to Earth?" Tom hesitated. "Well, maybe. But you know there's no direct passage." Cresmer -- sandy-haired, lanky -- looked up. "You sure of that? The crewman I asked didn't know." Tom said, "Why, any of the official guides can get you complete schedules. You'd have to go to Vreyol; that's the closest." Cullan stepped into the pause. "Santos is in shipping. He can probably tell you every route, fares and all." Tom suppressed annoyance. "Well, I'm not exactly in shipping. But I've read over a lot of schedules." Ludlow said, "If we were sure Vreyol wouldn't go Fist, Edna and I might stop there, if we have to go anyway. It's... well, we said good-bye to all our friends and relatives on Earth and turned everything into cash." He and his wife were in their thirties, Tom judged. They sounded Australian. Cullan gave a cheer. "Here come the eggs!" He motioned the waiter to set the tray beside him and seized a fork. "Let me have your plate, Edna. There! Somebody pass this toast around. Almost like home, eh? Tom, you've got to try some of this aspic!" Oakley, a slight man who looked Eurasian, was looking at the ring Tom wore. "How did you get that off Merob, Mr. Yberraf ' Tom drew his hand back involuntarily. "It's Earth manufacture, so it was exempt." Cullan was peering at the ring with interest. "Let me see it, will you?" Hesitantly, Tom pulled it off and handed it over. Cullan frowned at the stone. "S. Y. Your initials. So you hauled that big thing all the way from Earth, and now you're hauling it back again. Is it a real ruby? It's big." IF "A cheap one," Tom improvised. Cullan handed it back again. "Nice ring. It's a wonder they didn't pass a special act and appropriate it. Say -- as long as we're all interested in transportation off Zenner, why don't we discuss it at breakfast tomorrow? I'll get all the schedules from the travel office, and Santos will know which lines might have food we can stand, and things. Okay, Santos?" Tom answered abstractedly. He'd just become aware of a ship's officer standing just inside the door, looking at him. "All right. Will you excuse me for a minute? I think I'm being paged." H weki was as neatly-uniformed as before. He directed his muzzle at Tom for a moment before speaking. "Forgive my bothering you again, but I must ask questions. Will you give me a resume of your movements since leaving this office yesterday?" Tom tried to read something in the steady eyes. He failed. "Why, from here I went to a lounge not far away. I met another Terran, and we had dinner together. Then I went to my stateroom and was there until breakfast time, where your guide found me." Hweki appeared to sigh. "That was all? You went nowhere else, spoke to no one?" "Only the bartender and waiter." "And this other Terran -- it was Renfrew Cullan, I know. Was he in the lounge when you got there?" "I assume so. Where I sat at the bar I was facing the door, and I think I'd have seen him come. in. He approached me very soon after I got there. I suppose he'd been at a table in the dark end of the room." This time Hweki definitely sighed. "I was hoping you could add something. The bartender places you both, within a few minutes. And we know you didn't leave your stateroom during the night. Well, so much for that, yes? Another matter. You say you applied to Wioon Lek, Chartered. Did you happen to meet another Terran who worked for them? His name was Thomas Larrow." Tom hoped he could lie with a straight face. "Larrow? No, I met very few Terrans on Merob." Hweki stared thoughtfully along his muzzle. "I am going to tell you some things, in the hope something may occur to you. Please understand that the Line, and my Government, are neutral in Meroban politics. But we maintain sources of information. Before we got completely out of radio range, I learned certain things. First, Wioon Lek was involved in a conspiracy that included the sabotage of Vreyol KwayJ Tom's face must have showed his shock. The Bokl went on, "This Thomas Larrow had passage aboard Vreyol Kway. Since he had living quarters on the Wioon Lek compound, we speculate that the tools of sabotage may have been smuggled aboard in his luggage, with or without his knowledge. I am not familiar enough with humans to know Can you say?" Tom tried his voice and found it worked, more or less. "Martyrs... It would depend on the individual and the cause. I would say, if this -- this Larrow blew himself up with the ship, he was an unusual man. A fanatic." Hweki inclined his head. "Thank you. He could have been deceived in some way, of course." Tom could not help protesting, "But Wioon Lek -- from what I heard, he was a benevolent sort! How could he -- ?" Hweki regarded him thoughtfully. "Yes; ordinarily. A fine civilized person. But it seems there was a great deal at stake. No less than the secret of the Elite weapon." Tom sat newly dumfounded. Suddenly, the ring on his left hand seemed to weigh tons. Finally, in near panic, he said hoarsely, "But wouldn't that argue against the sabotage of Vreyol KwayV "Well, no," Hweki said slowly. "There is more. I've been a little oblique with you. Your own alibi is sound in what I'm about to tell you, but there's the question of your passport. I have to consider you as possibly connected. Maybe without knowing it. You see, shortly after Ussmed left this office -- sometime while you were in the lounge -- he was murdered in bis stateroom." T om sat in his own stateroom, with a single light on. He'd have to examine the ring presently, of course, but he wasn't quite sure there wouldn't be a hidden camera somewhere. If there was, he daren't reveal his state of mind by making a search. Finally he decided to go into the kitchenette. If Hweki did catch him, at least the ling might not fall into the hands of the Meroban Government. He had no magnifying glass. However, holding the ring close to a strong light, he could see faint signs of the joint between the real gem and the plastic overlay. He peered at the inside of the band. How much information could be stored in a finger-ring? Messages could be magnetically recorded in the metal, of course. But maybe even that wasn't necessary. The shape of the ring itself -- the makeup of the alloy, even, or the cut of the stone -- might reveal, to one who knew the code, some location, the name of some individual, who held the secret. He couldn't feel angry with Wioon. The industrialist had unhesitatingly laid his own life on the line. And, in doing all he could to protect the ring, he'd been also protecting Tom. It was clear now that the whole thing had been staged, prepared ahead of time. "Santos Yberra" was a false name. Whoever had gotten the passport in that name, of course, was working for Wioon. Naturally it was from Vreyol, and unaltered -- the byplay with Daal had been to make the thing more convincing to Tom. Not Daal's death, though. That had obviously been some hitch in the plans. But Daal hadn't hesitated either. IF So someone ihad gone aboard Vreyol Kway using Tom's Meroban passport and ticket to do the sabotage. Suddenly Tom remember the newscast. A trashboat had left Vreyol Kway shortly before the explosion. He jammed the ring back on his finger and began pacing the kitchenette. Maybe the sabotage hadn't been a suicide mission! The crew had been arrested. But maybe a stowaway had been found, too -- and maybe Wioon Lek's involvement had been wrung out of the stowaway. It was possible to ride in the hold of a trashboat; they were pressurized and insulated (because they doubled as supply boats and even personnel carriers at times. Actually, the "trash" they carried down from an orbitting liner wasn't garbage, or waste paper, or anything like that. Those things, a liner reworked and regenerated again and again, because it was cheaper than decelerating them out of orbit. The "trash" was a final unusable residue: silicates, carbides and such. In the case of Meroban and Vreyolan ships, it was a coarse dust. Treaty, as well as tragic experience, forbade dumping it in orbit, or even in nearby space. It would be landed. Boklan ships, he knew, went even further. They fused the residue into porous bricks, which could be used for building. But even in Vreyol Kway's dust-load, a person could hide and escape a ship if he were very clever and very daring. If the saboteur had done that, and been caught, there was no mystery about Wioon Lek's death. Tlie Fists had tried to arrest him or interrogate him in his own office, and he'd killed himself. A coward in Tom's situation, Tom mused, would go to Hweki, tell the whole thing and beg for sanctuary, even if it were a Boklan prison. A coward might even persuade himself that he possibly didn't carry the message after all. He could be merely a decoy, another layer of security in Wioon's laminated plan. It looked as if that plan were operating aboard Obolis, If not, then why was the murder of Ussmed necessary? Slowly a thought formed in his mind. If the saboteur had escaped in a trashboat, maybe Tom could do the same thing. If the same misfortune -- arrest -- waited him on the planet, at least it would be by Bokla, not Fists. And if he got away to Paib Salang, the ring would be safe, possibly, from the Fists on Zenner; and Tom might get to Earth after all. For all he knew, a hundred passengers on Obolis might be either after him or protecting him right now. In the hours that remained before his deadline, he might learn who some of them were. And he had to get a look at the ship's trashboats. Then he could start planning an escape. Seeing the trashboats and how they were handled would be easy. He'd simply go on one of the conducted tours of the ship; that way there'd be no suspicion. V  Tour Twenty-Eight VV please board its car? Tour Twenty-Eight." The junior officer guiding was as neat as a fresh pastry in his white uniform as he stood beside the door of the cigar-shaped vehicle, looking courteous. Behind the car, the slot in the transportation tube waited to gulp it in. Tom glanced back once more at the huge vistawall with its live picture of Central Control. They'd stood there for fifteen minutes while the guide pointed things out and answered questions. Tom would have welcomed more time. There were things he might learn from that picture about ship's operations. For one thing, Central Control was obviously kept on low gravity -- tiny Boklan figures wafted about the picture on their harness gravs. But next they were going aft, where he'd see the trashboats. He boarded the car and found a seat. They slid sideways into the tube, then there were brief mild sensations of acceleration and deceleration -- unnecessary, but faked to preserve the sense of orientation -- and the door slid open again. He got out in his turn and stood half listening to the guide. The chamber here, he judged, was eighty yards long and half that diameter. It was cylindrical -- actually the aft end of the ship's inmost core, enclosed by Superwall D. The chamber was dark except for lights near the tour party. The trashboat they were looking at, a blunt vehicle about fifty feet long, rested on and was clamped to a pair of rails leading from the inner bulkhead behind it to the aft one, along the side of the cylinder. There were eight such pairs of rails spaced around the cylinder, each leading to a circular door in the aft bulkhead. The lights were dim there, Tom guessed, so the other boats apparently hanging overhead wouldn't be too disturbing. Grav here was radially outward, so that one could walk clear around the curve without feeling any change. A Meroban was asking, "Are those single-stage airlocks at the end there?" The party turned to look at the circular doors. "No, sir," the guide said, "they are three-stage locks. The ends of the ship have four Superwalls too. Everything is built to the principle of extra safety." Tom 'had edged around the trashboat and was examining the stack of residue-bricks on a pallet beside the open hatch. Each was about thirty inches long, half that wide and a fourth that thick, so they made an interstaggered pile on the pallet. He visualized the layers. Yes, it would be possible, given time, to rebuild the stack with a hollow inside, big enough for a man. But would he run out of oxygen? The bricks were porous, but there'd be little circulation through or between them. Besides, he'd be immobolized. The Vreyolan residue of dust would be easier to hide in, if a man had a pressure suit or even a helmet and air supply. He moved to where he could IF look into the boat's hold. There was part of load still on pallets inside. They'd been loaded aboard with a fork truck, then, or something like it. The pallets rested on a temporary deck, to which the load was lashed by cargo nets. But from the overhead, limp ply-fabric hung. Those were airbags that would be inflated to keep the load more secure. Would they bulge down too far at the sides? No; between the pallet-loads and the curved bulkheads, there was space they wouldn't fill. He examined the hatch-edges carefully to make sure the pressure seal was all right. He didn't want to breath space if he rode this particular boat down. He peered in and forward, but the hold was too dark for him to see the doorway into the crew compartment. Surely there'd be one. He was excited with the idea now. He rejoined the group and listened te whatever the guide had to say about this part of the ship. From here, they'd go to one more place -- a hydroponics compartment -- then they'd have ship's-courtesy refreshments. After that, it wouldn't be long to TL. Uj ast call. All passengers should J --  be within Superwall B. Translocation in four minutes." Of the breakfast group, only Edna Ludlow showed any nervousness. "Oh, dear. I wish I'd stayed in the stateroom." Her husband grinned. Bud Vollander looked at her more seriously. "You're within Superwall C here. Not that there's any danger worth calculating." Renfrew Cullan signalled the waiter for more beverage, then smiled at Tom. "You're the expert, Santos. Just what are chances?" Tom, annoyed, said, "I'm not an expert. As I understand it, before translocation these Boklan ships send a small sensor-drone through, packed with instruments. In the very unlikely event that the target area contains any solid matter as big as a pinhead the drone will find it. The drone comes back and reports automatically, and if everything's clear the ship translocates. TTie only thing that could go wrong is that some object could be moving into the target area at a respectable fraction of light-speed. That doesn't occur naturally, of course." Ednal insisted, "But what if some other ship..." Tom said, "Well, you wouldn't have time to realize what was happening. But the chances compare to this: suppose two people on two firing rifles into space, deliberately aiming away from each other. Even if both made a mistake, or went insane, or something, the chances of two bullets colliding head-on would be pretty small. Do you see?" Edna smiled. "It does sound small." Jim Cresmer was watching a chronometer. "Here it comes." The P. A. system said, 'Translocation in four seconds." Tom tried not to hold his breath. There was a ping, then an almost imperceptible shudder of the room. A minute IF went by; two; a fraction of a third. The voice said, "Translocation completed. Zenner's sun is in easy telescope range." Tom wondered if the others at the table were silent because they felt as he did -- a little frightened; uncertain; not knowing whether the vague sense of tremendous distances gone, of eons lost, were imagination or not. Or the very faint visualizations that flashed into the mind were gone -- beauties too wonderful to grasp; horrors beyond dreaming. In any case, the feeling went away fast. OuUan said, "Well, halfway. What are you going to do the rest of the trip, Santos? You don't seem to be interested in cards or anything." Tom already had an idea that might camouflage his escape. "I'm going to study the ship's hydroponics, if they'll let me. They're way beyond anything Earth knows, or Merob or Vreyol for that matter. I may be able to turn the study into money when I get home." eal dirt?" Cullan asked Tomtv in surprise. They and a junior ship's officer were outside Superwall B. "I didn't know that! y aren't they hydroponics like the others we've seen?" The guide explained, "It is not ordinary dirt that you would find on a planet, sir. Most of it is a metal compound for absorbing hard radiation. As long as we need a layer of it anyway we put it in granular form, mix in plant nutrients and make it do double duty, yes?" Tom stared aroun# the vast compartment. It was like the size of a football field. From where they stood, a long walkway led through the virtual jungle to the far end and on into the next compartment. Practically all of Superwall B was layered with this. "Are any edibles grown out here?" No, sir. Well, except for a few private plots the crew maintains. The edibles aren't as radiationresistant as these trees. Of course, it's seldom we have to take hard radiation." Tom nodded. "How about oxygen? There must be a lot releas out here. Do you use it?" "Yes, sir, normally. But if it at all doubtful, the inner hydroponics can yield plenty. Not to mention the stored reserves. The safety factor is about six to one, yes?" Tom said, "I certainly appreciate your throwing all this open to me. You won't have to worry about Earth competition for a while, though. It'd be generations before we can work up anything like this." The Bokl looked pleasant. "We do not worry about competition, passenger Yberra. The galaxy is very big, and space societies few in comparison." Later Tom lay in bed, wondering how Hweki was assessing his interest in the greenery. Once again he resisted the urge to turn on a light and look at the clock. When he'd slept, if he could, the roomlights went on for morning, he'd still have plenty of time. The actual timing would have to be a guess, of course. He couldn't estimate within ten hours when they'd be in radio range. Nor could he know what the information from Vreyol might be, or what Hweki would do. There were two reasons he must wait as long as he dared. First, because the sooner he disappeared, the more time they'd have to look for him. He hoped they'd spend it searching the greenery for him or his corpse. Second, it was going to be a long ordeal in the trashboat. A man might go insane. He rolled over restlessly and reshaped the pillow. Maybe, instead of trying to sleep, he ought to lie here and practice patience. "Damn," he muttered, "I've made up my mind. Why can't I simply relax until it's time?" But he couldn't. VI R enfrew Cullan dished up scrambled eggs. "I wonder what kind of hotel we'll have on Zenner. I hope we'll find a chef who can at least speak Meroban." Edna Ludlow said, "It'll be in the Meroban settlement, won't it? Surely they won't put us where we can't make ourselves understood!" All of them looked at Tom. Annoyed, he said, "It'll be the Boklan hotel at the spaceport, probably. The staff will speak Meroban and a dozen other languages." Bud Vollander said, "Yes, they have a fine hotel on Merob. And we don't know the political situation in the Meroban sector of Zenner." Cullan asked Tom, "What do you think?" Tom tried to control his irritation. "I only heard the same things the rest of you did. You know, of course, that the Bokla keep planetary control. Any local police have to clear with them. The Meroban Embassy will be Fist, but I doubt if the rest of the sector will. Maybe it'll be split." Edna said, "Well, anyway, I don't want to stay there. I wish we didn't even have to go  to Vreyol. I'd rather even have to learn some other language." Tom couldn't stand any more. He pushed back his chair. "Look; I'm afraid I'll have to excuse myself. There's a chemist I want to talk to. see you at lunch, okay?" He took the shortest route to his stateroom. It was several hours before the time he'd planned; but nothing could be worse than this tension. He hurriedly filled plastic bags with water and the most concentrated rations in the refrigerator, sealed them, arranged them on a cord to tie around his waist. Over it he donned his loosest coverallsuit and added a weather jacket so his waistline wouldn't attract attention. He made a call and arranged an appointment in one of the labs. Then, shaky with excitement, he left the stateroom... still clutching the jackphone in his hand. Angrily he stuffed it into a pocket. Avoiding the traveled corridors, he got to the transfer point with the huge vistawall. There were still tours coming and going. He edged around until one was there that included four humans. IF When it left, he slipped into the car with it and took a seat at the rear. Several times the guide looked in his direction, but showed no sign of knowing he had an extra passenger. At the aft chamber Tom waited his chance, then slipped beyond the same trashboat. The load was bigger now, but there was still more to come. He looked around nervously, saw no crewmen, and hastily climbed aboard. Once behind the load, he stood a moment breathing deeply in relief. Then he hunted for a small dark space against the off bulkhead. He chose one and squirmed himself into it; crawled a few feet and found a slightly wider spot. He began unloading his emergency rations. Now the ordeal was begun. He'd brought along tranquilizers, but he daren't use them yet; he must be alert. After a while he looked at his watch. Five minutes had passed. One five-hundredth, possibly, of the period he'd have to endure. Now that he was here, he felt very foolish; but he was committed. Most immediately, he worried about the appointment he'd broken. He hoped the chemist wouldn't report it to Ship's Security too soon. U tter inactivity was a new experience. As a young man he'd been an athlete; then there'd been study, girls, and whatnot. After college he'd gotten on with an Earth firm pioneering into space. That had been merely within the Solar System, then; but alien contacts were growing, and all the ybung men wanted to head Out. After a couple of years Tom got his break with Wioon Lek, Chartered, just then establishing warehouses and offices on Earth. They'd needed a few Terran employees off-planet. And Wioon seemed to have taken a personal liking to Tom. It had been a pretty wonderful day when Tom boarded a Meroban ship. If he'd thought the old job on Earth was boring, he should have had a foretaste of this. He tried to relax, squirmed and tried to relax again. He sipped water and chewed a little dried meat. He looked at his watch so often that finally he took it off and put it in a pocket. Six hours passed somehow. Suddenly there was stronger light. He lay still, pulse pounding audibly. Presently there were sounds he recognized as the whole chamber coming to life -- the rumble of boats on rails, the whine of forktrucks, Boklan voices. Final loading had begun. It startled him when there were noises close by, followed by a jar. But it was only another pallet load of bricks coming aboard. The ones next to him relayed the impulse, and he wondered fleetingly if they'd be shoved in, crushing him, but they weren't. He remembered they were already lashed down. More pallets came aboard and were maneuvered into place. Then, finally, a hissing came from overhead. He saw the airbags swell and touch the top of the load, fit themselves around it, press down at the sides. But they stopped when there was still room for him to stand up. After that the hatch was closed, and he heard it seal. There were sounds forward in the pilot compartment now, and someone entered the crew compartment to open the door to the hold and shut it, making sure it was latched. Then the sounds subsided. It wasn't completely dark, as he'd expected. There were glowlamps in the hold somewhere. He took a trank, but it didn't seem to affect him. He lay listening to the sounds and squirming from one uncomfortable position to another. After a while, angry at his stupidity, he realized there was no reason he shouldn't sit up. He was as jerky and full of improbable fears now as an old maid. He took another trank. When ten hours had passed, he knew they were within radio range of #nner. Now, if not before, Hweki would be looking for him. About that time he realized that part of his discomfort was the need to urinate. He hesitated a while, then got out one of the extra plastic bags he'd brought and took care of the need. After that the relief was so great he could sit and relax a little. Time seemed to lose its sequence now. Memories and apprehensions somehow got mixed up. His head jerked up with a snap, and he realized he'd dozed. Well, that was fine. He lay down again. Absently he rubbed his fingers over the bricks beside him. They'd make a good building wall; with a strong mortar they might not need reinforcement. And the insulation would be very good. He wondered how much of the cost of compressing and fusing the dust was offset by the selling price. That was the factor. Dust or bricks, the deceleration out of orbit would be the same. Time dragged on, dislocated or not. Now and then he wondered if he were going insane. He vacillated from periods of comfortable dozing to tense, almost unbearable worry. He didn't think he could have made it without the tranks. He looked at his watch -- somehow he'd forgotten to do that for a long time -- and was astounded how much time had elapsed. But why hadn't they left the ship? He got to his feet in panic. It must have been an hour after that when he began to hear air whistling outside the hull. They must have left the ship while he was dozing. In sudden haste, he began collecting his things and shrugged back into the jacket. But he had plenty of time. He was all ready fifteen minutes before the boat touched down. H e'd reconciled himself to having, possibly, to wait for dark. What puzzled him was the lack of activity outside the boat. The crew had left, audibly, and there were only faint distant sounds. The hold was still sealed. Finally he squeezed his way forward to the door. He put his ear against it and heard nothing then, cautiously, turned the handle. The latch clicked open. He waited tensely, but heard nothing beyond. Slowly, he eased the door open. IP The crew department and the pilot department beyond were dark. Evidently it was night. That might explain the lack of activity; the hold would stay sealed until some customer arrived with a truck, next day. He hurried forward and tried to see out the two small glass ports. All he saw was a wall, against which the nose of the ship was parked. He didn't dare turn on a televiewer, of course. There was no use waiting any longer. He tried one of the side doors, found it unlocked and pushed it open. It was a short step down to the ground. With a quick look around, he scurried for the darkest nearby shadow. Those were at the rear of the building -- a warehouse -- where a high fence, covered with large-leafed vine, ran. He got the impression there was a street beyond. He peered down the narrow alley between building and fence, then turned to look at the spaceport. He was on the quiet side. Beyond the mileide field were hangars and warehouses, some of them lighted, and parked boats. He could make out Boklans walking about. Beyond the low bufldings loomed a very large hotel. He hurried along back of the building until he saw a gate in the fence, paused to look and listen, then slipped to the gate. It was latched, but unlocked. A road came in here, and he could see that the town beyond was a suburb, more smalbbusiness then residential. He made sure the street was empty and walked along it toward a lighted avenue. On the avenue, male and female Bokla eyed him curiously as he walked under a light. No doubt he looked seedy. He walked until he met a Bokla less neat than the others, and approached him. "Excuse me. Where is the Meroban sector?" The native probably understood only the word "Meroban." He stared at Tom for a moment, then turned and pointed. A s Tom expected, the poorest part of the sector was away from the port. He found a cheaplooking hotel, but hesitated. He needed a razor, or some substitute. He walked to a sundry store and settled for a keen knife. To satisfy the proprietor's doubts, he made shaving motions, which fascinated the Meroban. Then he went to the hotel. The clerk, too, was curious. "You speak excellent Meroban. You have just come from Merob, yes?" "A few days ago. With things as they are, I couldn't be choosy about transportation. But I have money to pay for the room." The clerk grinned. "In advance, of course. Four tals, with the bath." Tom found the room and looked longingly at the bed. But he'd have to see Paib Salang tonight, if he could. He undressed, and first of all sponged off his clothes and hung them to dry. Then he essayed the chore of shaving with the knife and common soap, and finally had a hot, very satisfying bath. When he dressed again, he looJced presentable -- at least reasonably so. He fished in his pocket for the jackphone, then hesitated. Maybe he'd better not call from his room. He left, waving to the clerk, who blinked at his cleanness, and walked down the street to a snack shop where he ordered a meat sandwich and the equivalent of coffee. He carried them to a corner table, sat down and plugged the phone into the wall receptacle. He allowed himself a bite of sandwich and a gulp of beverage, then leaned close to the phone. "I wish to speak to Paib Salang, this sector. Collect." There was a confirming ping, then an electronic hum. He waited tensely. Finally a voice said, "Paib Salang speaks. Who calls?" "Code Nine Four Seven." A pause, then, "Are you in privacy?" "Privacy enough." "Man Tom! I thought you dead! There has been no word from Merob since Wioon died!" Tom said, "I have an heirloom he wanted you to deliver." An indrawn breath. "Where are you?" Tom told him. Another pause. "Two blocks to your left as you face the port is Klindar Street. Turn up it toward the port. Four blocks along is my house, number eight twenty-nine. Do not let anyone see you enter the vestibule. Ring once, then twice, then once again. Can you start now?" K lindar was a fairly well lighted street thjit grew more prosperous as he went. At the corner before his objective he paused, looking ahead. A solitary Meroban was ambling on a block beyond, in the other direction. He waited until it turned a corner. As he moved again a human voice whispered in English, "Santos!" He whirled, eyes searching the shadows. Then he saw a hand gesturing. "Over here! Quickly!" Angry and suspicious, he took a step that way, but stayed out of reach. "Cullan! What the devil are you doing here?" "Watching for you, of course! Quickly! Out of sight!" Tom moved into a shadow. "I've got an appointment!" "Keep your voice down. We knew you'd try to reach Paib Salang, so we staked out the neighborhood. Bud Vollander's down the other way. Paib's been in custody for a couple of days." Tom stared at him. "I just talked to Paib." "No, you didn't. If you called there, some Fist officer talked to you." As Tom hesitated, Cullan chuckled. "Doubt me, eh? Just watch the house for a minute. It's the seventh one up, on the left." Tom turned to look up the street. It was less than two minutes, he was sure, before he saw an aircar's lights descending. The craft landed atop the house, and Meroban figures tumbled out to run toward the roof entrance. He made out Fist uniforms. IF "Come onl" Cullan urged. "The street will he swarming in a minute! Dismayed, Tom went with him. Cullan led the way through what seemed to he a deserted basement, through the back yard, over a fence and through another yard grown with reedlike stuff. Somewhere, a domesticated animal yawped. Another fence and a walkway beneath a lighted window, and they were in an alley. A block along that, Cullan turned down a dark street. "I've got a hotel room not far away. If we can make that we'll be safe for a while. I've made arrangements to smuggle you out of town." I 'hey put on a drunk act as they went by the clerk. The room was on the second floor. Cullan closed the door behind them and set the lock, then turned to grin at Tom. "Whew. That was dose. I thought we'd lost you. I need a drink, if you don't." He went into the bathroom and emerged with a bottle and a glass. "Real Earthside bourbon!" He poured a stiff drink and offered it to Tom. When Tom hesitated, he laughed. "Still don't trust me, eh? Well, I'll drink first." He drained the glass, refilled it and offered it to Tom again. Tom couldn't see anything tricky about the glass or bottle, and he was beginning to be ashamed of his doubt. He took the drink and downed it. Cullan said, "Sit down; we're all right for an hour or so. How the devil'd you get off Obolis?' Toni told him, "I hid in a trashboat." Cullan laughed. "They searched all over Superwall B. You're lucky you didn't smother in the dust. We didn't know what had happened. Thought you might be dead. And when we found Paib had been arrested, we almost gave up. The Fists must have had a lot on him, to convince the Bokla. Well, it's okay now. I'll phone down for some sandwiches." He started toward a wall receptacle, drawing a jackphone from his pocket, then stopped and looked down at Tom's left hand. "You didn't lose the ring, I see." "No. And I've already had a sandwich. But -- " He stopped. Suddenly he realized what Cullan had said. Dust Cullan had said. Dust, Cullan didn't know about the Boklan residue bricks. But he knew about the Vreyolan dust residue. A terrible thought squirmed in Tom's mind. He tried to control his face, tried not to stare. But -- yes, with his hair dyed and skin stained, and with cheeks padded -- and with contact lenses over his blue irises -- Cullan could have posed for the picture of Santos Yberra. And he could be the saboteur. Maybe he'd ridden a trashboat down from Vreyol Kway, And maybe he, not the Fists, had gotten to Wioon Lek. A doublecross. Cullan was looking at him with concern. "Something wrong?" "Uh -- just a little dizzy. It'll pass." Tom could feel, or imagine he felt, something working in his own blood. The whiskey. His mind raced. If he'd been doped, he'd have only a few minIF utes. If he could get CuHan's attention off him for a moment... He pulled the ring off his finger and stepped forward, holding it out to Cullan. "Here. I'm damned glad to be rid of it." Cullan's control slipped just perceptibly. His face tightened as he stared at the ring; he reached out for it a little too greedily. Tom swung his left fist as hard as he could. Cullan reacted like a feline; jerked his head so the blow didn't land squarely. He went down, but he wasn't much stunned. His face was murderous now, and his hand was flashing up with a small weapon. Tom kicked him in the head, and he went limp. For a moment Tom leaned on a chair-back, feeling the onset of dizziness. Then he fumbled for his phone; mumbled into it, "Urgent. For Fourth Officer Hweki, ship Obolis, in orbit. Trace this call to the murderer. This is -- this is -- a false passport talking." He plugged the phone in, then staggered out the door and down the hallway. He wanted to be around a turn, at least, if Cullan revived, or confederates came, before Hweki did. W hen he revived he felt lightheaded, but otherwise all right. Hweki was looking down at him gravely. Tom tried to sit up in bed and found he could. A second Boklan whose neat uniform was not medical helped adjust pillows. The room was subtly alien: chairs low and short-seated, windows a trifle high. The first thing Tom said was, "You got him?" Hweki's head inclined in affirmation. "You almost kicked too hard. It would have been a shame not to be able to interrogate him." Tom relaxed against the pillows. "Did he sabotage Vreyol Kway? And try to interrogate Wioon?" "Yes. Wioon was too trusting of a hired desperado." Tom asked, "What about his confederates?" Hweki made a gesture of wonder. "He had none. The man is incredible! He did it all by himself -- all of it -- Ussmed, and Paib; meanwhile posing as Renfrow Cullan and various other people. He must have worked on split-second schedules. And the acting; and the deduction! And you should hear the audacity of his schemes for selling information, once he got it. He'd already made overtures to Vreyol and to several other races, including my own. My superiors thought they were getting feelers from a well organized criminal cartel!" Tom thought about that a moment, then asked puzzledly, "Paib, did you say? He killed Paib too?" "Of course. After interrogating him with drugs, as he did Ussmed. He didn't have much luck with either. They didn't know about the ring, or even for sure if you were carrying the secret. Actually, he could have given them information. When he saw the ring, he knew it was significant because of the initials on it. He, of all people, had reason to know you weren't Santos Yberra." Tom said, "But when he intercepted me near Paib's house, the Fist police really were coming!" "Naturally. He'd phoned them they'd find Paib's corpse. Another example of his quickness. And, for another -- we estimate he had about fifteen minutes to scout the neighborhood, find a place to intercept you and reconnoiter a line of escape." Tom sighed. "God. And he'd have fooled me too, except for one chance remark he made. What about the ring? What message does it carry?" Hweki said, "It carries the whole technology of the Elite weapon. The stone is artificial, built up layer by crystal layer. The pattern of impurities in it carries the text, which can be read out by a special electron microscope. We solved it fairly fast. There is the equivalent of many books." Tom looked at him. "What are you going to do with it?" "I think we will just keep it. Such a weapon is safer in our hands than in some." Tom nodded slowly. "I agree. What about that whiskey he gave me? Why didn't it affect him too?" "I presume," the Security Officer said, "he'd already swallowed an antidote." Tom felt himself flush. "Of course. I was pretty stupid, wasn't I? All the way. I was as lucky as he was smart. I guess I was even incredibly lucky to get down on the boat. If it hadn't happened to park where it did, probably have been caught." Hweki looked amused. "It wasn't exactly luck; we arranged for it to park there, and we had you in sight most of the time you were in the open after that. But we lost you for a little while when Cullan spirited you away. That little while was almost too much." Tom was staring at him. "You knew I was -- all the time, you you knew I was in the boat?" "Yes." Tom thought about it, and was able to grin wryly. "A hell of an outlaw I would make." "Oh, you did quite well, man Larrow. As a matter of fact. I'm going to offer you a job in my organization. With your race beginning to move into space, I need a human or two. But you will have to learn one basic principle, and this is an excellent lesson. You must consider your adversaries more thoroughly -- not only their mentalities, but their physiology as well." 'p'om lay stunned for. a minute. A "A -- a job, in space? I -- I'm very grateful! I guess I didn't really want to go back to Earth anyway. Not permanently. But what did I overlook?" "Think, man Larrow. You hid well from our eyes. But we are not evolved from the same kind of animal as you are. I know that on Earth you have certain animals with long muzzles." Tom felt his face growing very red. "You... smelled me?" IF "Do not be offended. The odor of humans is no more disagreeable to us than other natural odor. And a lot less disagreeable than the chemicals Cullan used to mask his own trails. The way he misled us amounts almost to genius. But the first crewman who approached the trashboat you were in smelled you. He report at once, of course, and I did a little quiet sniffing myself before deciding to let you carry out your adventure. And of course I knew from my earlier talks with you that you were no assassin, but a decent person forced into a few honorable lies. Man Larrow, we can smell emotional reactions, too!" A hairy mountain bore This corkscrew-twisted ivory spear. Now crumbling, cracked, and brown with age. On four Vast legs he stood, with questing trunk and flapping ear. He stands no more. This massy, shaggy one. With bulging paunch and wicked eye. Bestrode the prairies of the past, and none Belayed his path; with brassy screams he made them fly. His day is done. I hope my skull a brusque. Neat card does not some day, inside A glassy case, in some museum's dusk. Proclaim as that of: "Man, believed extinct," beside The mammoth's tusk. L. Sprague de Camp IF  Feature The Purpose of Fandom Our tAar in Fandom gives us a fan's-eye view of the field and some graduates T o begin with, there is no purpose to fandom. None at all. It's just a hobby... something you're in for fun. But the fact you're a fan means something, in a way. It means that your interest in science fiction is more than whim deep. You read science fiction -- not casually, when you stumble across a paperback or a magazine by chance -- but avidly: you seek it out and collect it. For this reason, sf means more to you than just "something to read." There are lots of folks who read, say, mysteries, or historicals, or westerns. But who would think of collecting them? What for? -- they aren't that deeply interested in them. But there's something about science fiction, some indefinable element or ingredient that makes its readers fiercely partisan. They love it; they want to share it with others, to convert their friends to sf. Science fiction is the only form of popular literature I know that imbues its readers with the urge to proselytize. Oh, I don't mean to suggest that every single last individual who ever picked up a single copy of Gory Rocketship Thrillbook was automatically transmogrified into a wildeyed sf fan, committed for life to his hobby. But an awful lot of us were... Fan Into Pro I like to think that those of us who love science fiction and fantasy tend generally to be more imaginative and, potentially at least, more creative people than the norm. At any rate (and I won't pause to debate the point, which is pretty dubious), there definitely is a very strong and ever-present tendency for science-fiction readers to become science-fiction writers. Again, I know of no other branch or school of pop fiction in which this is demonstrably true. Very few sf writers come from The Outside World; most all of them rise up from the fan ranks. Now, this just doesn't happen in other forms of fiction: writers, real professionals, turn to cranking out mysteries or gothic romances or comic-book continuity or westerns or historicals because it's a fast, easy buck. Not because they love the field. In a very real and true way, I think it could be stated that this is the "purpose" of fandom. Fandom is a proving ground from which the professionals of tomorrow are (as it were) launched. This "purpose" was not in anyone's mind when the first attempts to organize fandom were made. It just happened. And here are some exciting examples. Editors and Publishers If you are one of those nice people who read this column every month, you already know my history-maldng first example of faninto-pro. A few columns back, I told you the amazing experience of the first lucky chap ever to realize every fan's dearest dream: Charles D. Hornig, the #-year-old sf fan from Jersey City who was picked out of nowhere to become editor of a real professional science-fiction magazine. Wonder Stories, When this incredible break happened to Hornig, it shook the fandom of the day considerably. But it wasn't long until the same sort of thing was happening to other fans, and it is still going on today. Let's see... There was Raymond A. Palmer. Palmer was one of the very earliest fans, and he helped organize one of the first proto-fanclubs, the Science Correspondence Club, about #. He was active in early fanclubs, contributed to and help edit fanzines and so on and, somehow or other, eventually ended up at Ziff-Davis as editor of Amazing Stories, He founded Fantastic Adventures later and, later yet, left Ziff-Davis to found some new magazines such as Other Worlds and Imagination and the occultist magazine Fate which is still going. rence Hamling, a Chicago fan who joined the fan ranks sometime about #. Hamling was a prominent member of the Chicago chapter of the great Science Fiction League. He became one of Palmer's associates on Other Worlds and succeeded him when Palmer left the magazine. Hamling foimded the short-lived Imaginative Tales and went on to build a truly fantastic publishing empire when he founded the early Playboy imitation Rogue and organized Regency Books as their publisher (Regency editors who worked for him were, by odd coincidence, all one-time sf fans like Algis Budrys, Harlan Ellison and Larry Shaw). Today, Hamling publishes Corinth Books out of San Diego. When Ray Palmer was editing Amazing Stories he bought some of the first stories of another oldtime sf fan, Chester S. Geier. Geier was one of Palmer's most popular and prolific writers, and, by another of those peculiar coincidences that fill the history of sf fandom and make it so interesting, he followed in Palmer's footsteps, and to this day he is editor of Fate Magazine, The Prophet of Ghu Another early fan was Donald A. WoUheim, easily one of the most active, important and famous men in fannish history, and perhaps the one who had the strongest influence on the shape and institutions of fandom today. Wollheim was the (the Fantasy Amateur Press Association). And the founder of the first just-for-fun fannish pseudore"slan shack." And inventor of the first just-for-fun fannish pseudo religion, ghughuism. Wollheim also invented the idea of holding world science-fiction conventions. At a speech given in # at the first Eastern SF Convention in Long Island City, Wollheim proposed holding a world convention the following year in New York City, a suggestion enthusiastically endorsed by convention attendees who nominated him chairman of the historic # Nycon I. Don Wollheim started founding and editing science-fiction magazines in #, with Stirring Science Stories, Stirring has at least one distinction: a copy of this now-forgotten magazine was the deciding factor that turned young reader Philip K. Dick into a dedicated sf reader many, many years before he blossomed into an sf writer, author of (among a dozen other books) the famous novel The Man in the High Castle. D.A.W. also founded the shortlived Cosmic Stories and, when he joined the Avon Book Company in #, became the first ex-fan paperback editor. Wollheim edited the first paperback sf anthology in history, The Pocketbook of Science Fiction (#) and the first hardcover sf anthology of all. The Viking Portable Novels of Science (#). And he founded another short-lived mag, Out of This World Adventures, which is famed as the only sf mag with a comicbook bound in the centerfold. The Hardcover Boys Lots of science-fiction fans edited magazines or paperbacks... New York fan Larry Shaw, who once dwelt in a slan shack called "Little Jarnevon" and was later to found Infinity Science Fiction and Science Fiction Adventures, its companion magazine, to edit paperbacks under the Regency imprint and who is currently the editor of Lancer Books... Robert W. Lowndes, an oldtimer from Science Fiction League days, has headed a host of prozines like The Original Science Fiction Stories and others, now edits The Magazine of Horror, Famous Science Fiction, etc,, plus editing paperbacks for Airmont Books and hardcover science fiction for Avalon... and Forrest J Ackerman, the Giant of Los Angeles, who runs a passel of movie magazines like Famous Monsters of Filmland and Monster World IF and Screen Thrills... and loads of other people too numerous to mention. But there's another aspect of editing that the fans have gone into, and that's hardcover books. Right after World War II new book publishers opened up left and right, and plenty were devoted to science fiction exclusively. Like Shasta Press, dream-child of two well known Chicago fans, Mel Korshak and Ted Dikty, which published a good number of good ones, including Denver fan Stanley Mullen's Merrittesque fantasy. Kinsmen of the Dragon. Or Lloyd Arthur Eshbach's Fantasy Press which put Doc Smith's "Skylark" series into hardcover, as well as the "Lensman" novels and books and others. Or Gnome Press, founded by fans David A. Kyle and Marty Greenberg, which published Asimov's "Foundation" trilogy and Howard's "Conan" series. Or the indefatigable the #'s possessed by the itch to publish, who actually had that rare thing in fandom: a goodly supply of ready cash! Crawford began with an incredibly ambitious printed fanzine called Marvel Tales, with fiction by Lovecraft, David H. Keller, Robert E. Howard, Robert Bloch, Clifford D. Simak and others of comparable note. Then Crawford published pamphlets by Clark Ashton Smith, etc. His first venture into hardcover was an historic one: the first and just about the only book of Lovecraft's published in his lifetime. The Shadow Over Innsmouth  (#), today a very rare collector's item. Crawford also published the fine pamphlet collection, Garden of Fear, launched a slick newsstand sf magazine in # named Spaceway, and for many years after the war operated a hardcover house, F.P.C.I., which brought much of Sprague de Camp and L. Ron Hubbard into print. Among all these magazine editors and book publishers who were once fans are a certain number perhaps better known to you as sciencefiction writers. Damon Knight and Lester del Rey, both old-time fiction fans and later extremely prominent sf writers, had a fling or two at editing magazines. Over in England, virtually aU the sf mags drew their editors from the fan founded Science Fantasy, and Ted Camell, who founded New Worlds, And leave us not overlook Frederik Pohl. It's a debatable point whether Fred Pohl (whose fannish career goes back at least to # and the Brooklyn Science Fiction League, is better known as the author, co-author or editor of no less than #I books (by my count) or as the editor of Galaxy, If and Worlds of Tomorrow, But out of all this, I hope you get my point. If science-fiction fandom does not "officially" have any purpose for its organized existence other than giving pleasure to its adherents, it at least serves a very useful purpose which supplies it a rationale. That is, the thing acts as a breeding-ground and training field for the science-fiction professionals of tomorrow. This is a positive, "good thing" in many ways: it gives tiie field a tradition (auors are "bom" into it, so to speak, and when they switch to professional they know what they're doing, unlike the hack writers who from time to time stray into the field and try to make a success of it without really knowing or caring much for science fiction as literature) and it works to constantly improve the field (most editors are just "doing a job," but exfans working in sf as editors and publishers have a sense of dedication). And the ones who become writers in the field generally try to advance it, to help it mature and break new ground. A truly surprising number of the best and most famed science-fiction writers of all time are ex-fans. Next issue we'll take a look at some of them. Next Month in If (Author of A Cose of Conscience, The Hour Before Earthrise, etc.) Retiefs One-Man War Against the Galaxy by Keith Laumer And concluding Dramatic Riverworld Novel by Philip Jose Farmer IF IF  Novelette' Adam's Eva The world of robots was just waiting for humans to serve. But where were the humans? I A dam Pilot was bom on I July #. His parents, Sam and Ivan Pilot, bad put together every component in his body from standard parts supplied by the factory. "This is indeed a blessed moment, brother," intoned Sam Pilot, his metal face gleaming as he lovingly polished the unborn individual with an oily rag. "Yeah," Ivan Pilot grunted. His gaze slid from his relative to the countdown clock and back again. "Yessir!" Sam Pilot enthused. "Few joys can be compared to parenthood. Parenthood is the legitimate fulfillment of the individual, the giathering together and assemblage of factory components in the unique act. Even if it means working overtime -- and overtime itself is an honor that every self-respecting individual..." 'Tour minutes till birth," cut in Ivan Pilot. Sam Pilot looked up, blinked. "Sure. Four minutes till the blessed event. Four minutes before yet another individual is launched into the world for the better service of society." Beaming; he squirted a few drops of Government Standard Oil on Adam's head and continued polishing. Ivan Pilot reached beneath a pile of cotton waste and grasped the handle of a specially geared screwdriver. "Better check readings," he said quietly. "Yes, sir," replied Sam Pilot. "This is our great moment, brother, our personal act of creation, our affirmation of the dignity and worth of the individual. This here will be the happiest event in my life." With that he stamped a dated birthmark under Adam's left arm and crossed to the control panel. Ivan Pilot took two strides to Adam's side. Swiftly he fitted the screwdriver to Adam's chest, removed six screws, then lifted the mod plate. Inside were three dials set at maximum. As he turned the nearest dial, there was a blinding flash, then darkness. A dam Pilot sat up shakily, blinked, looked 'round. The room was full of smoke, and there was a smell of burning. On the floor Ivan Pilot lay crumpled. In a corner Sam Pilot cowered, face hidden by his hands. "Why should this happen to me," moaned Sam Pilot. "I'll never outlive the disgrace. A relative of mine actually undoing the... no!" "What's happened?" gasped Adam, rubbing his eyes. Sam Pilot looked flinchingly at him. "Shameful, immodest, indecent!" he wailed. "But what's wrong?" pleaded Adam bewilderedly. "You're exposed!" Sam Pilot croaked. "Do yourself up." Only then did Adam notice his mod plate. Hastily he crammed it on, replaced the screws with his fingers. "Are you decent now?" Sam Pilot asked. "I -- I think so," replied Adam. Sam Pilot turned round, wiped his forehead with an oily rag. He led Adam into an adjoining room and there he said sternly, "Let us try to forget this shameful incident. You must never speak of it again." "But what's so shameful?" asked Adam. "What's shameful?" spluttered Sam Pilot. Then he bit his lip, swallowed, rubbed his hands together and said, "Sit down, my son, and I will tell you what my fathers told me, and then you will understand." And so Adam sat at the feet of his father and learned of the shameful screws that he must never again touch except in due process of lawful cleansing. "Remember, my son," concluded Sam Pilot, "and let what has happened be a lesson to you. You may at times be tempted to undo those screws, but it is your privilege, your fulfillment to overcome this temptation and divert your energies and drives into the wholesome pursuit of service to the community." "What is this service to the community?" Adam couldn't help asking. "And does it really fulfill one?" Sam Pilot's eyes slid from Adam's. He fidgeted, jumped up. "Service is IF modity known to individuals," he droned. "It is the greatest, most wonderful, most honorable and deepest experience there is. Indeed, without service I can safely say there would be no reason for our existence." "But what is it?" Adam asked entreatingly. "That, my son, you will discover," Sam Pilot replied and disappeared from the room. Adam was about to follow his father, when instinct made him act otherwise. From a dispenser in the wall he drew a tablespoon of oil, swallowed it, and with a warm glow of well-being spreading through his system he took an escalator and found himself in the street. Composedly he worked his way onto the fast lane of the conveyor strip and looked about him. O n every side gleaming buildings hundreds of stories high stretched away towards the horizon. Some were being built, others torn down, and everywhere immense billboards Adam listened to snatches as he whirled along. "... three thousand diplomat's suites with indoor landscape gardens four thousand bachelor flats with split-level swimming pools nine thousand luxury apartments with rotating living rooms and panoramic windows ff Adam listened in awe and wondered where he would live. Five minutes later he arrived at the airport. He left the conveyor strip, passed rows and rows of waiting taxicraft, and entered the echoing building. From a computer he drew a sheet of instructions: Flight # New York to Paris, leaving in an hour, he read and proceeded onto the apron. As he neared the gleaming jet, a yellow Government Standard tanker disconnected its hoses and drove off, and Adam saw a personal service individual waiting at the foot of the gangway. He knew what she was by her smaller stature, slender shape and lavender skin. "Morning, Captain. I'm Eva Hostess," she greet, holding out her hand. Adam took the slim fingers in his, noticed with approval the healthy oily sheen of her exterior. "Should be a wonderful trip for the Passengers," Eva said enthusiastically. "Fve managed carnations for every table, and the very latest film for flight showing." "That's great," replied Adam, and found himself still holding her hand. His glance flickered to her mod plate and he felt a strange desire to run his fingers over her lavender surfaces. "Please inspect the . passenger compartment. Captain," Eva said and led him up the gangway and into the cabin. Adam looked round. The windows sparkled, safety-belt buckles shone, paper bags were discretely tucked beside every seat and on each table colored flower petals had been cunningly woven to form the word "Welcome." "Fine, fine," Adam said admiringly and asked about refreshments. Eva showed him the trolley with champagne, loibster salad, spring chicken, asparagus tips, alpine strawberries. "And what's this?" Adam asked, picking up a screw-top jar. "Caviar," answered Eva. Adam tried to turn the lid but it wouldn't budge. "Here, let me show you, Captain," Eva said, and with a few quick twists she flipped it off. Adam stared puzzledly and wondered why he hadn't been able to undo it. "I'll just whip up a few canapes," Eva said, spooning caviar neatly onto small squares of toast and cutting slivers of lemon. "Do you think the Passengers will like them?" "Sure," Adam murmured and nodded his head appreciatively. This was the sort of trim, efficient hostess he would always like to work with. Together they went down the gangway and waited to receive the Pissengers. Adam felt very proud standing in front of his shiny jet beside his smart hostess and began to understand what his father had meant by "the wholesome satisfactions of service to the community." It was great to think that a hundred and fifty Passengers would trustingly put their lives in his hands. "Oh, dam," Eva exclaimed, "I've forgotten the gifts." She hurried up the gangway and returned with a tray of souvenir flags; minute squares of (beautifully embroidered silk on diamond-studded gold pins. Some were decorated with stripes and stars, others were red with two crossed implements in the corner. "I sewed them myself," Eva told him proudly. At that moment the airport loudspeaker announced, "Will Passengers for flight ten to Paris please report to gate seventeen and embark?" Eva Hostess took two pairs of white kid gloves from her satchel and handed one to Adam. As he pulled them on he felt the nervous excitement every airline captain must feel the first time he waits to shake hands with his Passengers. Eva fiddled with the flags on her tray and kept glancing at the airport. "Here comes the bus," she said in an anxious tone. A dam watched the bus pull away from the terminal buildings, roll to a stop close to the gangway. The automatic doors swished open, an individual emerged, unrolled a red carpet, saluted, called out, "Will Passengers please transfer?" A minute later he called again in a louder voice, "Will Passengers please transfer, ladies and gentlemen!" Then he shrugged ihis shoulders, rolled up the carpet; the doors slid shut and the bus drove off. "But -- there aren't any Passengers," stuttered Adam. "Can't be helped," gulped Eva, and retreated up the gangway. "Do we just leave empty?" Adam blurted. "Of course," called Eva. "There's the schedule." Ground crews prepared to roll the gangways clear, and Adam climbed into the cabin. He ran his eye over the controls. Take-off systems. IF green. Electronic systems, green. Fuel systems... He paused, frowned, flicked the infra-wave angrily to send, "Hullo, Control," he radioed. "Main fuel tanks are empty, over." "Roger. Taxi back to maintenance. Flight canceled," Control replied. Bewildered, Adam jerked open the cabin door, strode into the passenger compartment. "What's going on?" he demanded. Eva Hostess sat slumped at a table, her head in a pile of flower petals. "You'll get used to it," she whispered unhappily. "There's a fuel shortage." "But suppose we'd had Passengers!" Adam protested. Eva looked up. "There aren't with tears. "Aren't what?" "Aren't ever any Passengers," she sobbed. "Never?" Adam gasped. Eva shook her head. "Not till now," she said bravely, wiped her eyes on some cotton waste and began clearing. II A s Eva emptied lobster salad, spring chicken, asparagus tips and strawberries into the refuse bin, Adam watched silently. When she had finished, he said firmly, "I'm going to complain to Control." "It's not eir fault," Eva told him. "They must have known about the fuel." "Oh, no," Eva assured him. "The tanker reported they'd filled us up." "Then it was the tanker's fault," Adam replied, beginning to get angry. "Of course it wasn't," Eva replied. "They'd been to the depot for fuel." "Well, who the hell's fault was t?" Adam burst out. "Nobody's fault," Eva explained. "If there's no oil in the pipeline you can't blame anyone." Adam felt there was something wrong with this statement, but wasn't sure what it was. He looked out of the window at the tankers, ground crews, airport buildings and asked baffledly, "But why aren't there any Passengers?" Eva Hostess swept up the rest of the flower petals, put away the souvenir flags before answering. "Perhaps," she said hesitantly, "perhaps it's because the service isn't good enough. Perhaps if we had garlands for every Passenger and scented the air with jasmine..." She paused, clapped her hands excitedly. 'That must be it. Just wait till next time." Together they left the plane and walked across to the terminal building. When they reached the entrance, Eva held out her hand. "Good-bye, Captain. We probably won't be on the same flight for some time." Adam clasped the small hand in his and stared into her eyes. "Can I see you off duty, then? How about tomorrow?" A pained expression flickered over Eva's face. "I'm never off duty. Captain," she replied with a sniff. "But I'm sure we would have made a wonderful crew and given the Passengers every satisfaction. Now I must see about those garlands." With that she dropped his hand, hurried into a door marked "Hostesses only". As the door swung shut, Adam bunched his fists helplessly. He took three deep breaths, then relaxed. He would visit Personnel, ask for Eva to be assigned to him permanently. "Yes, sir!" Adam said loudly and set off for Administration. Instead, he found himself walking out through the automatic doors, down the steps, past the waiting taxicraft, and returning to town on the fast lane of the conveyor strip. "Oh, well," he said with a shrug and gazed up again at the giant buildings. It would be great to have an apartment on the very top with a view over the city and Eva to arrange the flowers, he told himself. But at that moment he left the strip, crossed the street, and descended into an underground bunker. He walked down endless concrete passages to a bare numbered cell and entered. He drew his ration of oil from a wall dispenser, swallowed a tablespoonful, and with a comforting glow of well-being spreading through his system he carefully polished every inch of his skin with the remainder. Then, with a yawn, he lay down on a foam rubber bunk iind was soon asleep. E very day that week Adam was assigned a plane, but he only flew once and he never had any Passengers. He found the other hostesses a big disappointment. Their menus and cabin decorations left much to be desired, and as for their lavender skins and the rest, none of them bad that healthy oily sheen which miade him long to touch their surfaces with his fingers. The following Monday, Adam glimpsed a slim lavender figure crossing the tarmac carrying some boxes. "It's her!" he cri and set off in pursuit. Near the plane he caught her up. Eva swung round, and her face lit. "Why, Captain!" she called happily. "There's sure to be Passengers today, won't there? What's the met? Will they need airsick tablets?" "Hang the Passengers!" Adam replied. "Captain, please!" Eva protested. "That's hardly the attitude for a pilot about to fly." "I'm off duty," Adam told her. "Look, we must talk. Can't we go inside?" "No," Eva answered firmly. "I'm busy. There's the air to scent with jasmine, and..." "That's just it," Adam put in quickly. "You're the best hostess I've flown with. Can't we always work together?" Eva stiffened, said in a shocked tone, "What? Disobey flight instructions!""Why not?" "No!" Eva snapped. "Start disobeying instructions and you end up on the scrapheap." Turning her back on Adam, she lifted the lid of the top box, pulled aside the tissue paper and carefully drew out a garland of stephanotis. D uring the long, lonely months that followed, the memory of IF Eva bending over with the waxy flowers white against her lavender surfaces filled Adam with a warm glow that was his only solace. Day after day he sniffed the air to try and catch the sweet fragrance, but as the weeks passed and he never saw any sign of the trim lavender figure, he knew something must be wrong. He pestered the other pilots and hostesses, but they hadn't seen her. He spent his off duty hours on the airport roof, but without success. Every night when he returned to his cell and swallowed his ration of oil and the warm glow of well-being spread through his system, he made up his mind to ask Personnel where she was. But every morning when he arrived at the airport his resolution failed him. Adam neglected his work, became irritable with the other hostesses and his appetite suffered. One evening he couldn't face his oil, and he didn't drink it till the morning. As he gulped it down, the warm glow of well-being spread through his system, and when he arrived at the airport his resolution didn't fail him. He strode into Personnel and demanded to make an inquiry. A worried clerk individual glanced up from a filing cabinet, then saw it was Adam. "Oh," he said in a disappointed tone, "for a moment I thought... Ah, well, never mind. In any case, I can't help you." "y not?" "We're closed for card indexing and reorganization." "It's only a simple query," protested Adam. "There's no such thing," grumbled the clerk. "The computer's blown a circuit. It takcS half an hour to find the right card. Anyway you need authority from an Executive." "Okay," Adam replied, "lead on." The clerk individual laughed nervously, and his voice rose. "They haven't come in today. Left me overhere and when I've cross-indexed I'd chuck it only I'm indispensable. Don't you think they might show some consideration?" "Sure, sure," Adam replied. "I'll be. back." The following morning Adam visited Personnel, and the morning after, and the morning after. Finally he caught on. Storming into Personnel, he banged the desk, then noticed it was a new clerk individual. "We're closed for cross-indexing and reorganization," announced the new clerk, throwing cards into a shredder. "Yeah, I know," Adam said, "and the Executives aren't in either, correct?" The new clerk nodded. "Gives me time to get things straight. But they'll be in tomorrow." "Tomorrow, huh!" snorted Adam and strode across to the filing cabinets. He jerked open a drawer and pulled out a card: Miss Helen Hurst. Divorced. No apparent Inorganicist tendencies..., he read, and didn't understand a word. "Hey! Leave that alone," shouted the new clerk. "What are you playing at?" IF Ill Adam sighed. "I'm trying to trace a missing individual called Eva Hostess," he answered the question despondently. "Individual?" frowned the clerk. "Can't help you. We only keep records of Executives." "Then who deals with individuals?" "No one. They don't need to. Individuals are programmed for life. They're reliable." "Then Eva Hctess must still be working at the airport?" "Of course. Job permanency makes for efficiency. No point in changing individuals round." "But what about the clerk who was here yesterday?" Adam objected. The new clerk shrugged, "Oh, him? He had a breakdown. Not surprising with the state the records are in. Best place for him is the scrapheap." "Scrapheap?" Adam echoed, remembering what Eva had said. "What's that?" "Huh?" The clerk individual raised an eyebrow. "You must be new. That's the dump for derelicts, misfits, failures, crooks and anyone who can't measure up in certain ways to their job." "You mean, if an individual is missing, that's where he'll eventually wind up?" "Yes. And good riddance!" "How do I get there?" Adam demanded. 'Take any conveyor strip," the clerk told him and threw some more cards in the shredder. "They all end at the scrapheap." A n hour later, Adam found himself standing on the empty track at the end of the line. The first thing he noticed was a smell of burning rubber and a gloomy haze that blotted out the sun. In the distance reddish piles of refuse reached into the sky. Eva! Eva! he groaned. What could have driven her here. As he neared the scrapheap, the sounds of shouting, singing and the banging of metal objects reached his ears. Rounding a corner he came upon the cause of the disturbance. He stopped dead, gasped. On the ground half a dozen derelicts were sprawled in various attitudes, singing and clashing tin mugs against their drab-red bodies. Hurrying up to the nearest one, Adam said all in a rush, "What's wrong? Have you some disease? Can I help you?" The derelict stared at him, called out, "Hey, friends, look! Here's a shiny!" The singing stopped, and derelicts crowded round. "Have a drink, shiny," cried one, slapping him on the back. "Welcome -- hie -- to the scrapheap," called another. "Tis means a party. Come on, shiny, get lubricated." "No, thank you," Adam said firmly, and pushed aside the proffered mug. "I'm trying to trace a missing individual called Eva Hostess. Anyone seen her?" The derelicts muttered together, then shook their heads. "What you want with her?" asked one. "There's been some mistake," Adam replied. "I'm taking her back." At this there was commotion among the derelicts, and some began to laugh. "What? Leave the scrapheap!" cried one. "Shiny's crazy!" called another. "No one ever leaves the scrapheap," put in a third. Adam felt as if his head was going to burst. "No one ever leaves?" he echoed. "But what's the attraction?" "Tell him. Rusty," someone shouted. Adam noticed a small individual propped against a pile of junk whose limbs were so corroded he could hardly stand. "Yeah, wise him up, Rusty," bawled someone else. The corroded individual opened his mouth and immediately there was silence. "Ambition does it," he rasped and took a sip from his mug. "Ambition?" queried Adam, "Yeah, ambition," replied the corroded individual. "Take me. I started with a soda fountain, expanded to an ice-cream parlor, mushroomed to a seven-story sund saloon. Nothing was too good for the Customers. My specialty was Omelette Surprise Flambee in seventeen different temperatures." "Why did you chuck it?" asked Adam. The corroded individual took another sip. "After forty years in the business I made a mistake -- tasted the stuff. Horrible! Then I realized why there were never any Customers. It broke my heart." "But what made you come here?" Adam asked uzzledly. "This," replied the corroded individual, holding high his mug. "Glog, crude, slip, dope, lubricator, call it what you will." With that he drained the mug and fell back on the pile of junk. Adam looked round the other individuals and began to understand. "Where de you get that stuff?" he asked. "Can you draw your ration here?" "There ain't no -- hie -- ration," someone called. "There's a Government Standard pump round the corner. They serve anyone." A s Adam followed the directions, he tried to work out what had happened to Eva. The stephanotis garlands must have been her last desperate effort, and when the Passengers still didn't come... "'Step up, step up for your free issue of Government Standard Adam hastened towards the cries and soon came upon a pump. Beside it stood a gleaming attendant individual serving oil to a long queue. "Step up, step up and drink your fill. Forget your troubles, forget your woes. Better than a holiday. Better than work. Step up and drink your fill," chanted the attendant. Adam waited till the queue was served, then strode across. "This is criminal," he stormed. "You're turning them into addicts." "Quite right, friend," said the attendant reasonably. "Just hold out your mug. One fill can't do you any harm." IF "I haven't got a mug," Adam raged, "and I don't want any oil." "Course not," soothed the attendant. "Here, borrow mine." "No!" Adam shouted and threw the mug on the ground. The attendant picked it up, gave it a careful wipe. "Sorry, friend," he said. "Newcomers often have residual guilt complexes which I do my best to allay. That's my duty as scrapheap representative of the Highway Cleansing Department." Adam sank down on the stone curbing, put his head in his hands and mumbled, "I -- I'm rather confused. Can you explain?" "Certainly," replied the attendant. "If it weren't for me, these derelicts would clutter up the streets, steal honest individuals' oil rations and generally cause a disturbance. Instead they drift here." "But it's horrible letting them rust away." "Not at all," replied the attendant. "Death by rust is quite painless and even pleasant, I'm told. Besides, it rids society of its undesirables by a form of euthanasia which is entirely voluntary." He eyed Adam for a moment. "Are you sure you haven't any overwhelming problem, friend? Are you quite sure you don't want to take the easy way..." "No! No!" Adam shouted. The attendant sighed. "Pity. Then why exactly are you here?" Adam made a quick decision. "Look. You've got to help me. I'm searching for a personal service individual who has been missing a week. She's small, shapely, and has a lavender skin."  "Had!" interrupted the attendantindividual. "What do you mean?" "It's been raining recently." "No!" Adam groaned and clutched his head. Then an idea came to him. He straightened up and said, "All I need do is sit tight here. She's bound to show, isn't she?" "You haven't a hope," the attendant replied brightly. "There must be fifty pumps around the scrapheap. Better follow her example, friend," he advised and began to fill a mug. "No! Never!" Adam cried and jumped to his feet. "I'll find her." "Come back if you don't," the attendant individual called after him. "We're always open." A ll afternoon Adam searched for Eva among the scrap. Finally he decided to climb one of the reddish piles that reached into the sky. As he struggled upwards, his feet slipped on rusty skulls and several times small avalanches of limbs threatened to engulf him. From the top he gazed across the vista of desolation that stretched for miles on every side, and a cold shudder passed through him. The attendant individual was right: he'd never find Eva, not without help. And who would help him? Certainly not the derelicts, unless... Adam paused, his brow knotted in thought. Weren't the derelicts individuals who had been disillusioned because no one ever utilized their services? Suppose... Adam jumped up, a look of hope on his face. Hurrying down the IV rusty pile, he soon found what he was seeking: a lone derelict sprawled upon the ground. "Hi, friend," Adam greeted. "What's your name?" The derelict scowled. "Hiram Taxi," he mumbled. "What about it?" "Great!" Adam replied. "Someone's looking for you." "What?" gasped the derelict. He sat up, wiped his mouth on the back of his hand. "Someone's looking for mer "Yes," Adam said quietly. "Who? Who?" demanded the derelict. "A Passenger." The derelict staggered to his feet. "A P-passenger!" he gulped. Passengerr He roughly seized Adam's arm. "Where? Where?" "Steady," Adam said, disengaging his arm. "She's called Miss Eva Hostess and she's down here asking for you." The derelict laughed a cracked laugh. "Well, she couldn't choose better, could she? I mean, my record -- it's accident free. And I know all the streetnames, don't I? And the theaters, and the shortcuts?" "Sure," Adam said gently. "Better go look for her." "Yessir!" cried Hiram Taxi and limped away, rubbing himself with an oily rag and shouting, "Taxi. Taxi for Miss Eva Hostess." Before the day was out the scrapheap rang with the cries of derelicts with services to perform for Miss Eva Hostess. E very nigjht, Adam's helpers met, and he listened anxiously to their reports. As each unsuccessful day ate away his hopes, only the care of his small band sustained him. In the evenings he rationed out their tablespoons of oil and organized mutual polishing sessions. Soon their rusty skins were quite shiny again, and Adam noticed a contented sense of purpose spreading through the band. "Don't worry, friends, we'll soon find Miss Eva," said one. "We won't ever let her go, friends, will we?" said another. "Course we won't," said a third. "We'll build her just about the fanciest house ever, with a Chippendale lift and As Adam listened to their enthusiastic plans, one question tortured him. Would they ever find her? Then, the following afternoon, as he was filing the twenty-fourth notch on the iron bedstead he was using as a calendar, a breathless individual rushed up. "Found her! Found her!" gasped the individual, and collapsed at Adam's feet. Slowly Adam pieced the story together. A new derelict had reported seeing Eva at the airport. "No! Don't believe it! Impossible!" Adam mumbled, but he hurried to the conveyor strip, jumped aboard, sped past the smoky factories and the gleaming apartment buildings and soon was striding up the steps of the airport terminal. From the top gallery he scanned the tarmac, and there, unbelievably, in IF the distance, at the foot of a gangway, he glimpsed the unmistakable trim lavender figure of Eva. He ran, ran, ran, and then Eva was in his arms, struggling and beating his chest with her small lavender fists. Adam groaned, released her. "Really, Captain!" Eva gasped. "Where have you been?" Adam blurted. "That's not your business," Eva said coldly. "But I was afraid you'd become a derelict," Adam cried. Eva's expression softened slightly. "There's no call to worry about me," she told him. "We simply ran out of fuel in Australia. Now I must arrange the orchids." "Please!" Adam begged, as Eva started up the gangway. "Listen just for one minute. I'll never trouble you again." Eva hesitated, glanced at her watch, nodded. Adam swallowed, then said in a rush, "Please, Eva, this is important. Since you've been away. I've been working in the scrapheap saving individuals. Oh, I can't explain everything now -- but they believe in you. Like you do in the Passengers. But you exist, maybe the Passengers don't. They need you, and I need you. You must come back with me to the scrapheap, and together we can save the derelicts." For an instant Eva's face lit with a glow Adam bad never seen before, then she said heavily, "But I'm not a Passenger, am I?" "What do you mean?" Eva shrugged. i'I have to serve." "Then come and serve the defelicts!" "No," Eva said in a strained voice. "Don't you see there's no point?" "But there is," Adam argued. "The derelicts I saved help have other derelicts. It's the best service there is." "And when all the derelicts are saved?" Eva asked. "What then?" Adam opened his mouth to reply, but no words came. "Exactly." Eva sighed. "There'd still be no Passengers." A s Eva disappeared inside the plane, Adam pressed his hands to his face. If only she had become a derelict. He imagined himself polishing her rusty surfaces, helping rehabilitate her. Then he thrust the thought away. He still had his band, didn't he? Despite what Eva had said, that was still worthwhile. When Adam arrived back at the scrapheap, it was almost dark. As he waited for his helpers to gather, he began filing out the twenty-six notches in the iron bedstead. There was no point thinking about Eva ever again. Finally it was finished. In the distance derelicts crouched over smoldering fires warming mugs of oil. But where was his band? He jumped up alarmed; a horrible foreboding filled him. Before he'd gone a hundred paces, his suspicions were confirmed. Hiram Taxi lay sprawled upon the ground, oil dripping from his parted lips. "Hiram!" Adam cried, shaking the prostrate form. Slowly the eyes slid open and the oily lips moved, "Shove off!" "What's happened?" Adam begged. "You said she was a Passenger." V A nd so Adam became an outcast even in the land of outcasts. Endlessly he trudged the scrapheap extolling sobriety and shininess, but no one heeded him. He took to squatting on the top of refuse piles and staring out over the derelicts, past the distant apartment buildings, to where the airport lay on the horizon, thinking about Eva and wondering What it all meant. There had to be an answer, he told himself, scratching his mod plate. One evening, clambering up one of the piles, Adam caused a landslide. When the cascade subsided, he heard a groan and near the bottom of the pile found a blackened hulk half-uncovered by the slide. This was no derelict suffering from rust disease. This disease was something Adam had never seen and far more terrible. The hulk's chest was striated with blistered riverlets, and areas of its body had sunk inwards. As Adam leaned over it, the hulk opened one eye. "Oil, oil," it gasped. Swiftly Adam procured a can of Government Standard, cradled the blackened head, poured oil between the twisted lips. "Ugh I" spluttered the hulk and spat out the oil. "Shell, please," it croaked. "Shell?" repeated Adam. "What's shell?" The hulk groaned. "Is the war over?" "What war?" "Fetch me a human," moaned the hulk. "I need repair." "What's a human?" The hulk blinked up at him. "W -- what year is it?" "#," replied Adam, frowning. "#," gasped the hulk excitedly. Its eye stared, its mouth quivered two convulsive spasms racked its body, and Adam thought the end had come. Slowly, agonizingly, it fought for breath, whispered, "We... won." Adam stared puzzedly at the blackened form. Gently he lifted the left arm, glanced at the birthmark. #, he read and felt his pulse quicken. The hulk had been lying there a thousand years. The cascade must have reactivated it. The hulk moaned, its breathing became fainter. "No humans -- no service. We're free," it whispered, and a contented light flickered in its sunken eye. "Humans? echoed Adam, who slowly began to understand. "You mean, clients? Executives? Passengers?" The blackened head nodded faintly"But what's happened to them?" gasped Adam. "We need them." Apprehension flittered over the hulk's features; its single eye fixed on Adam's mod plate. "Inorganics supreme," it quavered. Adam stroked the blackened forehead as the hulk fought for life. Every now and then the lips twitched. Finally, as if mustering itself for one last effort, the hulk raised its head, rasped, "Library." IF "Yes?" Adam prompted genitly. The bulk oed its other eye stared at Adam nritU a look of serenity, then fell ha, lay still. A ll that night Adam twisted and turned on his foam-rubber bunk. The hulk must have known the answers: about the humans, about Eva, about what it all meant. But why had it been content there were no humans? And what had it meant by library? Adam had seen the library from the conveyor strip. It was a large domed building surrounded by pieces of metal known as sculpture. Next morning he took the conveyor into the city determined to discover what it was. When Adam emerged from the lift marked "Readers Only," a row of individuals behind little windows jerked up. "This way for the classics." "Geology section here, sir." Slowly the hubbub died. "Oh," sighed the individuals and lost interest. Adam looked round the great hall in wonder. Empty tables filled the center, and stretching up the walls as far as the eye could see were Tows and rows of slim rectangular objects. Adam removed one, and it fell open with a shower of dust. As Adam flipped through the sheets of small print and glanced at the pictures of odd individuals enclosed in curious coverings, he began to understand. At that moment a bent individual wearing green gloves and a sour expression, hurried across. "I'm the supervisor," the bent individual snapped. "What do you want?" "This is great!" Adam replied excitedly. "I mean, you keep all the records here, don't you? Now I can find the answers." "What answers?" inquired the supervisor coldly. "Why there are no Executives and no Passengers," Adam told him, "and what..." "You mean you want to look at the books?" the supervisor interrupted, rubbing his chin. "Of course," Adam replied, startled. "Consultation by individuals is illegal," the supervisor said sternly. "Illegal?" Adam frowned. "Why?" "Library rules." "Look," Adam pleaded. "It can't matter to you. Just turn a blind eye, huh?" "No," barked the supervisor. "If you don't leave immediately. I'll call the Police." The supervisor hurried to his desk. Adam read feverishly; he might have time to discover something. Five minutes passed, fifteen minutes passed, and an hour later the Police still hadn't arrived. Adam stopped grabbing random books and settled down to study the layout of the sections. By evening he felt he knew his way around. As Adam left the library he passed the supervisor individual. "Thanks for changing your mind," he said quietly. The supervisor glared at him. "The police weren't in," he growled. "But they'll be back tomorrow." E very day Adam went to the library and on the empty tables he laid the dusty books and read about the gifted organic beings who had created his race in their own image and disappeared. Together with agriculture and commerce, war seemed to have been the chief occupation of the humans. Adam followed the courageous, centuries-long struggle for political, religious and racial freedom. With the perfection of cybernetics towards the end of the twentieth century, even economic freedom seemed to have been attained. But to upset this utopia one more ideological slogan emerged: elemental equality. In that great work of political philosophy. Inorganic Man, Xram Lrak claimed that inorganics were not only equal, but superior to and fit to supersede humans in accordance with the true tenets of dialectical materialism. These claims were amply substantiated in the twenty-sixth Olympiad where inorganics representing the Peoples' Republic swept the board. Immediate objections were lodged by Western team captains, and demonstrators carrying placards tried to prevent inorganic competitors from leaving the Olympic village. The first casualty in the elemental struggle occurred when a spectator threw himself in front of three inorganic athletes, who only needed a last lap of forty-eight seconds for a subthree-minute mile, and was trampled to death in vain. Anti-inorganic feelings mounted. Newspapers calculated that an army of inorganics could run non-stop from Peking to Paris in seven weeks without refueling. Diplomats demanded on-thespot inspections of inorganic-producing factories to check that UN agreed subservience factors were being respected. Tensions reached boiling point with both sides presenting ultimatums -- and there the information stopped. For a thousand years no records had been written, and slowly the realization dawned on Adam: the humans had destroyed themselves. There would never be any Clients, Executives, or Passengers -- the inorganics were condemned to frustrated subjection for ever. But something puzzled Adam. What was this about subservience factors? Was there some method of altering them? He crossed to the Index Room and thumbed feverishly through the cabinets. Nothing under subservience. Nothing under individuah Then he held his breath and drew out a card. Inorganic Maintenance Manual. Security Section. Basement, he read. Adam hurried downstairs, entered a passage where the shiniest individual he had ever seen sat oiling a piece of metal. On a steel door was "Can you read, bud?" grunted the shiny individual and waved the piece of metal. "Sure," Adam replied easily, and moved forward. 'But that notice is out of date." "Bluff won't work," growled the shiny individual. "One more pace, and I shoot." Adam stopped. "Look," he cajoled. "Your aggressive instincts result from being programmed by the humans for their own purposes. But IP there aren't any humans any longer. Let me through, and I may be able to readjust you so you become the pleasant person I'm sure you want to be. " "Nerts," barked the shiny individual, squinting at Adam along the piece of metal. "You'll be my seventh. Step forward if you're going to. I can't wait all day." "Seventh!" Adam gasped. "Well, er -- in that case I guess I'll try again this afternoon." "This afternoon?" frowned the individual. "Persevering type. Might as well save us both the trouble." With that he pulled the trigger, and there was a dick. For a moment Adam stared, then said in a relieved tone, "Run out of ammunition, huh? Don't let it get you down. There's more to life than shooting people." He strode through the steel door, leaving the shiny individual muttering something about getting more ammunition tomorrow. I t didn't take Adam long to locate the Maintenance Manual. Marked in red on the cover was: Top Secret. Human Eyes Only. Turning to the index, Adam found the entry: Subservience Factor -- See Mod Plate. With trembling fingers he flipped the pages and read. For three hours he pored over charts, diagrams and instructions; then he closed the volume with a snap. Beneath the mod plate lay the mod center which controlled the personality. But to prevent individuals adjusting themselves, they had been programmed with an anti-tamper factor so that only opposites could unscrew each other. Adam frowned and drummed his fingers on the shelf. How could anyone undo his mod plate if he couldn't unscrew it himself? There was only one way to turn a screw, wasn't there? But something troubled him. Something had once happened. As Adam rushed from the security section, he heard a grunt. In the corner of the passage the shiny individual waved a can of gun oil. "Y'right, bud," he said thickly. "Forty years I've guarded that darned door. Well, I'm through." Adam left the library, procured a screwdriver, hurried to the airport. For twenty-four hours he searched without oil or sleep until he caught sight of the familiar lavender figure entering a plane. Adam ran up the orchid-decked gangway and slammed the hatch behind him. Eva whirled. "Gracious! What are you doing. Captain?" she gasped. For a second Adam hesitated. Never had Eva's lavender surfaces seemed so delicate, so fragile. Then, in one smooth, swift movement, he slid his hand over her mouth, pinioned her to a seat, gagged her with a curtain. "Trust me," he pleaded with the scared, uncomprehending eyes. T won't hurt you." He picked up a jar of caviar, put it in her hands. "Undo it," he said. Eva stared at him. "Undo it," he ordered. Eva shrugged. Adam watched. In some uncomprehendible way, her hands moved backwards in a nonexistent direction. Adam trembled. She was an opposite -- uniquely and unfathomably opposite. He fitt the screwdriver, turned, and slowly her screws yielded. Then, with shaking hands, he took off her mod plate. Inside, set at maximum, were three dials marked Servility, Indifference, Chastity, and a red button marked Safety Switch, Adam pressed the red button, then turned the dials to zero. As he reset the last dial, Eva stopped struggling and her face lit with a glow he had seen once before. "How did you know?" she breathed. "We've been programmed lor different rotary directions," Adam explained. "Your screws are vhreaded differently from mine. It's quite simple really. We're opposites." "Give that to me," Eve whispered. Then with simple and unaffected directness she unscrewed his mod plate. W hen it was off, Adam felt her fingers cool on his controls, and an intoxicating feeling spread through his system. He held out his hands; Eva took them. Gently he drew her to him, his controls touched hers, then nothing mattered. Adam lost all sense of time. Only he and Eva existed. Engines began to whine. Eva pulled away. "We're taking off," she gasped. "You'd better hide. The captain will be here any minute. Quick, put back my mod plate." Adam picked up the two pieces of metal, threw them down the refuse chute. ' Eva's eyes opened wide. "What are you doing?" she gasped. "This is our chance, Eva," Adam said quietly. "You mean," Eva said slowly as his words sunk in, "to become Passengers?" "Isn't that what we both want?" "I'm scared," Eva cried, and clung to him. "If only we could. But we're not humans." "No. We're superior to them," Adam told her and tore down another curtain. VI F ifteen minutes later the captain entered. "Passengers, on behalf of Panworld Airlines, welcome to our Ultra Deluxe Flight," he began, then caught sight of Adam and Eva. Adam raised his wine glass and clinked Eva's. "We trust that our service..." continued the captain, goggling at them, "that our service..." he faltered, gulped, saluted. "Gee, Sir, Madam, welcome!" he babbled and fled back to his cabin. Adam hitched the curtains more securely round his shoulders and put his hand on Eva's knee. From the. cabin came the sound of the captain shouting over the radio, "I've got two Passengers. course I'm sure. They're drinking champagne right now. Roger. Roger." The plane began to turn, and Adam looked at Eva. "We've made it," he said. "We're committed. They need us." IF Eva nodded and put her hand in his. Ten minutes later the first escort planes arrived. By the time they reached the airport two hundred jets were flying round them in a close diamond formation only possible because they were piloted by beings superior to and fit to supersede the humans. Vast crowds were waiting on the tarmac. Hastily Eva put the final stitches in Adam's trousers and he inspected her sarong. Thunderous cheers greeted them as they walked down the redcarpeted gangway. In the terminal building, delegates from all trades and services were waiting to greet them. All carried handy sonorized handouts and the clamor was deafening. "Speech! Speech!" they roared. Adam looked at Eva in dismay. "What can I say?" he gasped. Eva squeezed his arm. "Don't worry, darling." Shakily, Adam held up his hand, and instantly there was silence. "Honest, loyal, hardworking individuals," he heard himself say, "much as we look forward to enjoying your services -- " he paused, and thousands of handouts were flung in the air, denting many skulls -- "and much as we are eager to consume the products of your skills, today we are tired. All we require is accommodation." Obediently, all the delegates departed except the real estate agents, and Adam and Eva were besieged by two hundred dynamic salesmen. "Your private skyscraper for "Twenty per cent discount for ready cash"  "Well, er," mumbled Adam, "haven't you anything cheaper?" "Don't let's haggle," bawled a "Unrepeatable offer," yelled a third. "Twenty easy installments of After an hour of haggling, a sweaty individual thrust a contract under Adam's nose and barked, "Just sign here, sir. Free to you for intros to other Clients." The whole crowd fell silent in admiration. "Sure," Adam said and signed with a flourish. Immediately they left in a taxicraft and landed on the highest scraper in the town. Adam and Eva were shown round two hundred rooms. There were still seven hundred left to visit when Adam noticed Eva looking pale. "I think we'll call a halt," he told the agent. "We've had a long day." "Certainly, sir. Of course, madam," replied the agent understandingly. "The cupboards are stocked with all you need." With that he bowed, and departed. And so, at last, Adam had his topfloor apartment with a view across the city and Eva to arrange the flowers. "You just sit and relax," Eva told him. "I'll get supper." B ut Adam couldn't relax. He walked up and down on the balcony while Eva poked in cupboards until she found a bottle of olive oil. She laid a damask cloth. IF heated the oil and served it in silver goblets. "Supper's ready, Adam," she called, and lit two candles. ? Adam sat and sipped his oil, but he wasn't hungry. While Eva chatted away, he stared out of the window. Finally Eva asked, "What's worrying you? I know there's something. Tell me." "It's nothing," Adam began, then sighed. "You're right," he admitted. "It's what I told that agent." Eva looked puzzled. "About introducing other Clients," Adam explained. Eva laughed and said, "You could always seduce other hostesses." "No," Adam answered seriously. "They don't attract me. I've no desire to remove anyone else's mod plate." "Well, we're sure to find some solution," Eva comforted him, and a strange expression glowed in her eyes. "We must," Adam mused. "We can't run the world on our own. There's a lot that needs organizing -- oil supplies; the derelicts -- it will take years to get everything straight." Eva smiled and raised her goblet, "Here's to success," she said. Adam took a sip of warm olive oil and felt much better. Eva was right. They'd find some way. And tonight he had Eva, and if anything she looked lovelier than ever with her lavender skin gleaming palely in the candlelight. After supper, Adam took Eva onto the balcony, and as the moon rose over the horizon he kissed her. "Eva!" he breathed. "I guess I'm just about the luckiest individual ever." But even as his mouth brushed her lavender lips, she groaned and staggered. "What's wrong?" Adam gasped. Eva's face twitched. "Help me inside." Adam picked her up and laid her on the couch. "I think I'm going to... "she moaned. "Quick. Warm some oil. Hurry!" Adam rushed into the kitchen, filled a basin, put it on the stove. He cursed himself for not taking the maintenance manual. The was a whole chapter on faults he had only glanced at. Then he heard a hiccup, a sharp intake of breath, and a cry. He ran back into the room. Eva was propped up on the cushions nursing a small replica of herself. "Isn't he cute?" she said proudly. A dam gazed down at the infant. Its skin was shiny, just like metal. He took the small hand in his and found it to be quiet soft. He recalled reading something about plastic metal states and crystal reproduction, and a sense of wonder filled him. "Gee, Eva," he gulped. "This is great. I mean it's ours, isn't it?" Eva smiled, nodded. "And we can have another whenever we want?" "Of course," Eva replied fondly. "Well, that solves the housing problem," Adam breathed, patting his son on the head. The baby began to cry, and Eva said, "I expect he's hungry." Adam ransacked the rooms until he found a cot, and soon the baby had been bathed and fed and was sleeping soundly. As Eva tucked in the bedclothes she remarked, "So we really are just like the humans." "With improvements," Adam reminded her. Eva frowned, said slowly, "But why did they make us this way? I mean, why all these complicated adjustments? As if they knew they'd be needed." "Perhaps they did," Adam mused. "Survival instinct. And they've passed it on to us," he grinned, nodding at the baby. "Isn't it marvelous!" Eva sighed happily. She snuggled up to Adam and yawned. "I'm tired. Let's go to bed." Adam took a deep breath and looked at Eva protectively. "You go ahead," he told her. "I think I'd better bunk down in the sitting room tonight." "What for?" Eva demanded. "Well -- er," Adam replied. "We don't want another one of those in the morning do we? We ought to get organized first." Eva laughed and put her arms around his neck. "Don't worry, Adam. It's quite safe." "How do you know?" Eva kissed him, "I just know." "How?" demanded Adam. Eva gave him the label she'd taken from the baby's neck, and Adam read: Until replacements are required set Chastity dial at maximum. Understanding broke slowly on Adam's face, and he took Eva in his arms and whispered, "No wonder we're fit to supersede the humans." by Poul Anderson j Complete Short Novel I by Larry Niven I by Roger Zelazny I These and many more in June Galaxy -- on sale nowl  # IF IF  Serial Kidnapped off Earth, he had learned to baffle the strange aliens of the stars -- and win! T he controller made a small lump under the skin. It wasn't painful -- not unless you go too close to your overseer. At ten feet, it began to feel hke a slight case of indigestion. At five, it was a stone knife being twisted in your chest. Once, in an experimental mood, I pushed in to four feet from him before he noticed and waved me back. It was like a fire in my chest. That was just the mild form of its action, of course. If he had pushed the little lever on the egg shape strapped to his arm -- or died, while the thing was tuned to his body inductance -- the fire in my chest would have been real. Once, months later, I saw three slaves whose keeper had been accidentally killed. The holes burned in their chests from the inside were as big as dinner plates. As a rule, though, the Lesser Triarch believed in treating his slaves well, as valuable property deserved. Hruba dropped by twice a day for m Earth is my home. But I haven't seen it now since I was a schoolboy, and I don't know when I'll ever see it again. The people from space visit Earth when they want to, and no one is ever the wiser. Maybe you've seen them yourself and never known. I was not that lucky. When I stumbled on a party of them, two men and a lovely young girl, they gave themselves away... and so they took me with them when I left. Would you call it kidnapping? They didn't. That word means stealing a human being, and to them I was only an animal. But I stayed with them, hunting wild beasts as their gun-bearer, until they met a beast more dangerous than themselves. The men died. The girl and I survived, marooned on an empty planet -- until slavers came and took her from me. I followed the Lady Raire across the galaxy, found her, won her freedom -- and lost my own. Now she was free... but I was a slave. the first few days to be sure that have interfered, but she never knew, my alien flesh was healing properly. She didn't see you. And now Srat I spent my time lying on the b has her right back where she startor hobbling up and down the small, ed..." windowless room, talking to myself: It wasn't a line of thought that "You're a smart boy, Billy made me feel better, but it served Danger. You learned a lot, these the purpose of keeping me on my last four years. Enough to get yourfeet, pacing. With those ideas chewself a ship of your own and bring ing at me, I wasn't in a mood for it here, against all the odds there long, restful naps, are, to find her. And then you handWhen the wound had stitched up, ed her and the ship to the midget a Drathian overseer took me out of on a silver platter. For the second my private cell and herded me along time! He must have had a good to a big room that looked like a laugh. For a year he followed you nineteenth century sweatshop. There like a sick pup, and wagged his tail were other slaves there, forty or fifty every time you looked his way. But of them, all shapes, all sizes, even a he was waiting. And you made it few Drathians who'd run foul of the easy. While you sat there poisoning Rule-keepers. I was assigned to a yourself, he strolled back to the ship, stool beside a big, broad-backed anitold Huvile you weren't coming and mal with a face like a Hallowe'en lifted off. The Lady Raire might mask snipped out of an old inn IB! tube and fringed with feathery red gills. The oveaeer talked to him in the local buzz-buzz and went away. He looked at me with big yellow eyes like a twin-yoked egg and said, "Welcome to the club, friend," in perfect, unaccented lingua, in a voice that seemed to come from under a tin washtub. He told me that his name was Fsha-fsha. He had been left behind seventeen years before when the freighter he was shipping on had been condemned here on Drath after her linings went out, and he had been a slave since his money ran out, three months after that. "It's not a bad life," he said. "Plenty of food, a place to sleep, and the work's not arduous, after you've learned the routine." The routine, he went on to explain, was Sorting. "It's a highlevel job," Fsha-fsha assured me. "Only the top category workers get this slot. And let me tell you, friend, it's better than duty in the mines, or on the pelagic harvesting raftsi" H e explained the work; it consisted of watching an endless line of glowing spheres as they came toward us along a conveyor belt, and sorting them into one of eight categories. He told me what the types were, and demonstrated; all the while he talked, the bulbs kept coming, and his big hands flick the keys in front of him, shimting them their separate ways. But as far as I could tell, all the bulbs were exactly alike. "You'll learn," he said blandly, and flipped a switch that stopped the line. He fetched a lightweight assembly of straps from a wall locker. "Training harness," he explained. "It helps you catch on in a hurry." He fitted it to me with the straps and wires criss-crossing my back and chest, along my arms, cinched up tight on each finger. When he finished, he climbed back on his stool, and switched on the line. "Watch," he said. The glowing bulbs came toward him and his fingers played over the keys. "Now you follow through on your console," he said. I put my hands on the buttons and he reached across to attach a snap that held them there. A bulb came toward me and a sensation like a hot needle stabbed the middle finger on my right hand. I punched the key under it and the pain stopped, but there was another bulb coming, and the needle stabbed my little finger this time, and I jabbed with it, and there was another bulb coming... "It's a sure-fire teaching system," Fsha-fsha said in his cheery, subcellar voice. "Your hands learn to sort without even bringing the forebrain into it. You can't beat pain association for fast results." For the rest of the shift, I watched glorm-bulbs sail at me, trying to second-guess the pain circuits that were activated by Fsha-fsha's selections. All I had to do was recognize a left-forefinger or right ringfinger bulb before he did, and punch the key first. By the end of the first hour my hands ached like unlanced boils. By the second hour, my arms were numb to the elbow. At the end of three hours I was throbbing all over. "You did fine," Fsha-fsha told me when the gong rang that meant the shift was ended. "Old Hruba knew what he was doing when he assigned you here. You're a quik study. You were coding ten per cent above random the last few minutes." H e took me along a damp-looking tunnel to a gloomy barracks where he and twenty-six other slaves lived. He showed me an empty alcove, got me a hammock and helped me sling it, then took me along to the mess. The cook was a warty creature with a ferocious set of ivory tusks, but he turned out to be a good-natured fellow. He cooked me up a sort of omelette that he assured me the other man-slaves had liked. It wasn't a gourmet's delight, but it was better than the gruel I'd had in the hospital cell. I slept then, until my new tutor shook me awake and led me back to the Sorting line. The training sessions got worse for the next three shifts. Then I started to catch on -- or my eye and fingers did; I still couldn't consciously tell one glorm-bulb from another. By the time Fd been at it for six weeks, I was as good as Fsha-fsha. I was promoted to a bulb-line of my own, and the harness went back in the locker. The Sorting training, as it turned out, didn't only apply to glormbulbs. One day the line appeared with what looked like tangles of colored spaghetti riding lalong on it. "Watch," Fsha-fsha said, and I followed through as he sorted them into six categories. Then I tried it, without much luck. "You have to key-in your response patterns," he said. "Tie this one -- " he flipped his Sorting key -- "to one of your learned circuits. And this one -- " he coded another gob of wires -- "to another." I didn't really understand all that, but I tried making analogies to my subliminal distinctions among apparently identical glorm-bulbs -- and it worked. After that, I sorted all kinds of things, and found that after a single run-through, I could pick them out unerringly. "You've trained a new section of your brain," Fsha-fsha said. "And it isn't just a Sorting line where this works; you can use it on any kind of categorical analysis." During the off-shifts, we slaves were free to relax, talk, gamble with home-made cards and dice, commune with ourselves or sleep. There was a small, walled court we could crowd into when the sun shone, to soak up a little vitamin D, and a cold, sulphury-smelling cave with a pool for swimming. Some of the slaves from watery worlds spent a lot of time there. I developed a habit of taking long walks -- fifty laps up and down the barrack-room -- with Fsha-fsha stumping along beside me, talking. He was a great story-teller. He'd spent a hundred and thirty years in space before he'd been marooned here; he'd seen things that took the curl out of my hair to listen to. IF T he weeks passed, and I sorted, watched, and listened. The place I was in was an underground factory, located, according to Fshafsha, in the heart of the city. There was only one exit, along a tunnel and up a flight of stairs barred by a steel gate that was guarded day and night. "How do they bring in supplies?" I asked my sidekick. "How do they ship the finished products out? They can't run everything up and down one Little stairway." Fsha-fsha gave me what I had learned to interpret as a shrug. "I don't know. Danger. I've seen the stairs, because I've been out that way quite a few times." I stopped him and asked for a little more detail on that point. "Now and then it happens a slave is needed for labors above-ground," he explained. "As for me, I prefer the peacefulness of my familiar routine; still, so long as the finger of the Triarch rests here -- " he tapped a welted purple scar along his side -- "I follow all orders with no argument." "Listen, Fsha-fsha," I said, "Tell me everything you remember about your trips out: the route you took, the number of guards. How long were you out? How close did they watch you? What kind of weapons did they carry? Any chains or handcuffs? Many people around? Was it day or night? Did you work inside or outside -- " "No, Danger!" Fsha-fsha waved a square purple-palmed hand at me. "I see the way your mind's working; but forget the idea! Escape is impossible. And if you did break away from a work detail, you'd, still be alone in the middle of Drath, aa alien, not knowing the language, with every Rule-keeper in the city ready to pounce on you." "I know ail that. But if you think I'm going to settle down here for the rest of my life, you're dead wrong. Now start telling me: How many guards escorted you?" "Just one. As long as he has my controller in his pocket, one is all that's needed, even if I were the most intractible slave in the pens." "How can I get picked for an outside detail?" '"When you're needed, you'll be called." "Meanwhile, I'll be getting ready. Now give." Fsha-fsha's memory was good. I was surprised to hear that for as much as an hour at a time, he had worked unsupervised. "It's no use creeping off and hiding out under an overturned cart or in an unused root-celler," he said. "One touch of the controller, and you're mewling aloud for your keeper." "That means we'll have to get our hands on the control devices before we break." "They've thought of that; the thing is tuned to your neuronic carrier frequency. If you get within three feet of it, it's triggered automatically. If the holder dies, it's triggered. And if it's taken off of the overseer's body, the same thing." "We can stand it long enou to smash them." "If the controller's destroyed, you die," he said flatly. "It's covered any way you play it." # # hat's where you're wrong, ' A Fsha-fsha." I told him about crushing the controller the night I had been arrested. "Huvile didn't die. The Rule-keeper saw him board Jongo , an hour afterward." "Strange. It's common knowledge among the slaves that if your controller is damaged, it kills you." "It's a useful story forthe slaveowners to spread." "Maybe that's why they grabbed you so fast. You might have given the game away. Hell's ice, if the slaves knew..." "How about it, Fsha-fsha? Are you with me?" He stared at me in the gloom of the comer where we'd drifted to talk in private. "You're a strange, restless creature. Danger," he said. "For a being as frail as you are, with that soft skin and brittle bones, you've got an almighty urge to look for trouble. Why not take a tip from me and make the best of it?" "I'll get out of here, Fsha-fsha -- and get clear of the planet, too -- or die trying. I'd as soon be dead as here, so I'm not risking much." Fsha-fsha made the noise that served him as a sigh. "You know, we Rinths see the Universe differently from you propagators," he said. "With us, it's the Great Parent that produces the spores. We workers have the mobility, the intelligence -- but no future, except the Parent. We have the instinct to protect the Tree, fertilize it and water it, prune it, insure its "survival; but we've got no personal stake in the future, the way you have. Your instincts tell you to stay alive and propagate. Your body knows this is a dead end as far as offspring go, so it tells you to get out or die." He sighed again. "When I left Rinth, it was hard; for a long time, I had a homesticlaiess that you wouldn't be able to understand -- any more than I can reaUy understand the way you feel now. But I can remember how it was. And if it's anything like that with you -- yes; I can see you've got to try." "That's right; I've got to try. But not you, Fsha-fsha. If you're really content here, stay. I'll make it on my own." "You wouldn't have a chance, Danger. I know the language, the routes around the town. You need me. Not that it'll do any good in the end. But knowing about the controllers will make a difference." "Forget it. You can teach me the language, and tell me all you can about the town. But there's no point in your getting killed." "That's another advantage a Rinth has," Fsha-fsha cut me off. "No instinct for self-preservation. Now, let's get started planning the details." T he weeks went by. I sorted, slept, took my language lesson and worked to memorize the map of the city I drew up from Fsha-fsha's descriptions. About two months after our decision to crash out, Fsha-fsha got a call for an outside detail. He vetoed my suggestion that I volunteer to go along. "This is a lucky break," he said. "It will give me a chance to look over the ground again, in the light of our plans. Rest easy. We'll get our chance." "We propagators aren't as patient as you tree farmers," I told him. "It may be another six months before an outside detail comes up again." "Better to propagate in your old age than not at all, eh?" he reminded me, and I had to bite my teeth and watch him go. I got one quick look at the passage as he left. It was narrow, dim-lit; the Drathians didn't like a high level of illumination. I wondered if there was a useful tip for me in that. Fsha-fsha came back rippling his gill-flaps in a way that I knew meant he was excited. But it turned out not to be pleased anticipation. "It's hopeless. Danger," he assured me. "The Wormface in charge of the detail carries the controllers in a special rack, strapped to his chest for quick access. He keeps his distance; ten feet was as close as I could get before he warned me back." "What weapons did he carry?" I asked him. "What weapon does he need? He holds your life in his hand as it is!" "Too bad," I said. "We'll have to get our armaments somewhere else then." Fsha-fsha goggled at me. "You're an amazing creature. Danger. If you were cornered by a Fangmaster, I think you'd complain that his teeth weren't larger, so as to provide you with a better dagger!" The routine settled in again then. Every day was like the one before; Ihe glorm-bulbs rushed at me in a stream that never ended, never changed. I ate omelettes, played revo and tikal and a dozen other games, walked my two miles a day, up and down the dark room and waited. And one day, I made a blunder that ended our plans with total finality. T he work-shift had ended half an hour before. Fsha-fsha and I had settled down in his alcove to play our favorite game of telling each other what we'd do, once we were clear of Ehath. A big Drathian slave who'd been assigned to the sorting crew a few hours earlier came lumbering over, breathing out fumes that reminded me of a package of rotten broccoli I'd opened once by mistake. "I'll take this alcove," he said to Fsha-fsha. "Get out, animal." "Makes himself right at home, doesn't he?" I pointed across the room to an empty alcove. "Try over there, sport," I said to the broccoli breather. "Lots of room -- " I got that far when he reached out with a couple of arms like boa constrictors and ripped down the hammock. He yanked again, and tore the other end free. He tossed it aside and swung his own kit down onto the floor. I stood up. "Wait," Fsha-fsha said quickly. "The overseer will deal with this one. Don't -- " IF The big Dmthian took a quick step, threw a punch at me. I ducked, came up with a three-foot length of steel pipe the Rinth had tucked under the hammock for possible future use and brought it down in a two#ianded blow across the Drathian's shoulder. He gave a bleat hke a branded steer and went down bucking and kicking. In his convulsion, he beat his head against the floor, whipped his body against the wall hard enough to give off a dull boom! like a whale slapping the water with his tail. Thick, yellowish blood spattered. Every slave in the barracks came crowding around to see what was going on, but in thirty seconds it was all over. The big Drathian was dead. The Rule-keepers got there a minute or two later and took me away, up the stair I'd looked forward to seeing for so long. My hearing didn't amount to much. I explained to Hruha that the dead slave had attacked me, that I didn't know Drathians kept their brains under their shoulder-blades, but it was an open-and-shut case. I'd killed a fellow slave. My Sorting days were over. "Transportation to the harvesting rafts," the major-domo intoned in Drathian and repeated it in Lingua. "Too bad, Man," he added in his unofficial voice. "You were a valuable sorter. But like your kind, you have a savage streak in you, most unbecoming in a chattel." They clamped my wrists in a steel ring and hustled me out into a courtyard where a big, tarry-smelling airbarge was waiting. I cJimbed aboard. and was kicked into a metal-walled broom-closet. They slammed the door on me, and I lay in the dark and felt the barge lift off. T he harvesting rafts were milesquare constructions of metal floats linked by woven-rope mats and carpeted with rotting vegetable husks and the refuse of the canning sheds that worked night and day processing the marine life hoisted aboard by the seining derricks. A pair of husky Drathians threw me off the side of the barge into foul-odored, ankle-deep muck. Another pair grabbed me, knocked me around a little just to keep in practice, and dragg me away to a long lean-to which served to keep the worst of the sub-tropical rains off any of the workers who were lucky enough to be off shift. They took off the wrist-irons and rigged a finegauge fiber loop around my neck, not tight enough to choke me, but plenty snug enough to wear the skin raw, until it toughened and formed a half-dnch-wide scar that itched and burned day and night. There was a lim p bladder attached to the rope, designed to inflate and keep my head above water if I happened to fall overboard. Slaves weren't allowed to evade their labors by anything as easy as drowning, intentionally or otherwide. I learned all this later. The first night the only orientation I got was what I could deduce from being dragged to a line of workers who were shelling out big crustaceans. and yelled at to get to work. The command was emphasized with a kick, but I had been watching for that; I slid aside from it and smashed my fist into the short ribs of the Drathian and chopped him again as he scrambled back. My reward for this effort was a solid beating, administered by three Drathians, two holding me and one swinging a rod as heavy and limber as a golf club. They finished after a while, threw water over me, and someone shoved a sea-lobster at me. "Better look busy," the slave on my left tipped me off. He was a medium-sized Drathian with a badly scarred face; that made us pals on two counts. I followed his advice. T here wasn't anything complicated about the work. You grabbed your chzik, held him by the blunt end, hooked a finger under his carapace and stripped it off him. Then you captured his four flailing limbs and, with a neat twist of the wrist, removed them. The chziks were active creatures, and they showed their resentment of this treatment by writhing frantically during the operation. When you found yourself tackling a big fellow -- weight ten pounds or more -- it could sometimes be a little difficult to carry out the job as smoothly as the overseers desired. They usually let you know when this was the case by hitting you across the back with the golf-club. At first, my fingers had a tendency to bleed, since the carapaces were razor sharp and as tough as plexiglass, and the barbs on the legs had a way of lodging in my palms. But the wounds healed cleanly. The micro-organisms ofDrath were too alien to my metabolism to give rise to infections. And after a while calluses formed. I was lucky in timing my arrival near the end of a shift; I was able to look busy enough to keep the overseer away, and make it under my own power to the shed. There were no bunks, no assigned spaces. You just crowded in as far as possible from the weather side and dropped. There was no insomnia on the rafts. The scarred Drathian -- the same one who had given me some good advice the first night -- helped me out again the next shift, by showing me how to nip off a chunk of raw chzik and suck it for the water content. The meat itself was spongy and inedible as far as I was concerned; but the slop dipped up to us at the regular feeding time was specially designed to be assimilable by a wide variety of species. When an offbrand worker showed up who couldn't live on the stuff he soon starved, thus solving the problem. Instead of the regular cycle of alternating work and rest shifts, we harvesters worked two shifts out of three, which effectively prevented any chance of boredom. For six hours at a stretch, we manned our places by the chute with the squirming heaps of chziks arriving just a little faster than we could shell them out. The slippery mat under foot rose and fell in its never-ending rhythm, and beyond its edge the steel-gray sea stretched to the horiIF zon. Sometimes the sun beat down in a dead calm, and the unbelievable stink rose around us like a foul tide. At night floodlights glared from high on the derricks, and the insects swarmed in to fly into our mouths and eyes and be trampled underfoot to add to the carpet. Sometimes rain came, hot and torrential, but the line never slowed. And. later, when gray sleet coated the rigging and decks with soft ice, and the wind cut at us like sabres, we worked on, those of us who could stand the cold; the others settled into the muck and were hauled away and put over the side. And some of us who were stiU alive envied them. f remembered reading, years beX fore, back on old Earth, of concentration Camp prisoners, and I wondered what it was that kept men going under conditions that made life a torture that never ended. Now I knew. It wasn't a high-minded determination to endure, or a dauntless wni to take a blood-curdling revenge. It was an instinct older than thought, older than hate, that said: "Survive!" And I survived. My hands toughened, my muscles strengthened, my skin hardened against the cold and the rain. I learned to sleep in icy slush, without protection, with horny feet stumbling over me in the dark, to swallow the watery gruel and hold out the cup for more, to take the routine club-blows of the overseers without hitting back; in the end, wiftiout really noticing. There were no friendships onthe rafts, no recreations. There was no time or energy for anything not directly related to staying alive for one more day. The Drathian who had helped me on the first day died one wet night, and another took his place. I had never even learned his name. During my years, in space, I had developed an instinctive time sense that told me when a week, or a month, Earth-style, had passed. I had been almost five years away, now. Sometimes I wondered what had happened during those years, back on that small planet. But it was so far away that seemed more like a dream than a reality. But for hours at a stretch, sometimes for a whole double shift, my mind would wander far away from the pelagic rafts of Drath. My memories seemed to become more vivid with time, until they were almost realer than the meaningless life around me. And then one night, the routine broke. A morose-looking Drathian bossoverseer caught me as I went toward the chzik chute, shoved me toward the boat wharf. "You're assigned as a nethandler," he told me. Except for the heavy leather coat he was wearing, he looked as cold and filthy and miserable as the slaves. I climbed down into the twenty-foot double-prowed dory that was pitching in the choppy water at the foot of the loading ladder, and we shoved off. In five minutes the high-sided raft was out of sight in the ragged fog. I sat in the stern and stared at the oily gray surface of the water. It was the first new sight I'd seen in many months. The wake was a swirl of foam that drifted aft, forming a pattern like an ugly face that leered up at me through the murky water. The face grew clearer, and then it broke water, a devil-mask of rippling black leaves edged with feathery red gills. An arm swept up, dripping water; I saw the flash of a kpife blade as it swept down toward me -- and felt the rope fall from my neck. A wide hand clamped on my arm, tumbled me over the stern, and before I could draw ,a breath, had dragged me down into the cold and the dark. I woke up lying on my back in a warm, dry place. From the motion and the sound, I could tell I was on a boat. The air that moved over my face carried the sweet, clean smell of the sea. Fsha-fsha was standing beside the bunk. In the soft glow from the deck-lamp, his face looked almost benign. "It's a good thing I recognized you," I said, and was surprised at the weakness of my voice. "I might have spoiled things by putting a thumb in your eye." "Sorry about the rough treatment," he said. "It was the best we could work out. The tendermaster wasn't in on it; just the bossoverseer." "It worked," I said, and stopped to cough, and tasted the alien salt water of Drath. "We're not clear yet, but the trickiest part went all right. Maybe the rest will work out, too." "Where are we headed now?" " There's a abandoned harbor not far from here; about four hours' run. A flier will meet us there." I started to ask another question, but my eye was too heavy to hold open. I closed it and the warm blanket of darkness folded in on me. V oices woke me. For a moment, I was back aboard Lord Desroy's yacht, lying on a heap of uncured Nith-hides, and the illusion was so strong that I felt a ghostly pang from the arm that had been broken and mended so long ago. Then Fshafsha's voice cut through the dream. "... up now. Danger, have to walk a little way. How do you feel?" I sat up and put my legs over the side of the cot and stood. "Like a drowned sailor," I said. "Let's go." Up on the deck of the little surface cutter, I could see lights across the water. Fsha-fsha had put a heavy mackinaw across my shoulders. For the first time in a year, I felt cold. The engines idled back and we swung in beside a jetty. A small, furtive-looking Drathian was waiting beside a battered cargo car. We climbed up into the box and settled down under some stiff tarpaulins, and a moment later the truck started up and pulled out in a whine of worn turbos... I slept again. The habit of almost a year on the rafts, to sleep whenever I wasn't on the line, was too strong to break in an hour; and breathing the salt seas of Dfath isn't the best treatment for human lungs. When I woke up this time, the car T# IF had stopped. Fsha-fsha put a hand on my arm and I lay quiet. Then he tapped me and we crawled out and slid down the tailgate, and I saw we were parked at the edge of the spaceport at Drath City. The big dome loomed up under the black sky, across the ramp, as faded and patched as ever; and between us and it, the clumsy bulk of an ancient cargo-carrier squatted on battered parking jacks. Something moved in the shadows and a curiously-shaped creature swathed in a long cloak came up to us. He flipped back the hood and I saw the leathery face of a Rithian. "You're late," he said unhurriedly. "A couple of local gendarmes nosing about. Best we waste no time." He turned and moved off toward the freighter. Fsha-fsha and I followed. We had covered half the distance when an actinic-green floodlight speared out to etch us in light, and a rusty-hinge voice shouted the Drathian equivalent of, "Halt or I'll shoot!" I ran for it. The Rithian, ten feet in the lead, spun, planted himself and brought up his arm. A vivid orange light winked. The spotlight flared and died, and I was past him, sprinting for the open cargo port, still a hundred yards away across open pavement. A gun stuttered from off to the right, where the searchlight had been, and in the crisp yellow flashes I saw Drathian Rulekeepers bounding out to intercept us. I altered course and charged the nearest Rule-keeper, hit liim fair and square. As he fell, my fingers, that had learned to strip the carapace from a twelve-pound chzik with one stroke, found his throat. Cartilage crumpled and popped and he went limp, and I was back on my feet in time to see the other Drathian lunge for Fsha-fsha. I took him from behind, broke his neck with my forearm, lifted him and threw him ten feet from me. And we were running again. The open port was just ahead, a swell of the hulk. Something gleamed red there. Fsha-fsha threw himself sideways and a ravening spout of green fire #anced out, and I went flat and rolled and saw a giant Drathian, his white scrape thrown back across his shoulder, swinging a flare-muzzled gun around to cover me. I came to my feet and drove straight at him, but I knew I wouldn't make it -- Something small and dark plunged from the open port, leaped to the Drathian's back. He twisted, struck down with the butt of the gun, and I heard it thud on flesh. He struck again, and bone crunched, and the smaU, dark thing fell away, twisting on the pavement; and then I was on the Rule-keeper. I caught the gun muzzle, ripped it out of his hands, threw it away into the dark. His face was coming around to me, and I swung with all the power that the months of mulelabor had given my arm and felt the homy mask collapse, saw the ochre blood spatter. He went down and I stepped over him and the small, dark creature moved -- And the light from the entry tell across it and showed me the mangled body of a H'eeaq. Up above, a shrill Rithian voice was shouting. Behind me, I heard the thud of Drathian feet, their sharp, buzzing commands. "Srat," I said, and could say no more. Thick, blackish blood welled from ghastly wounds. Broken ribends projected from the warty hide of his chest. One great goggle-eye was knocked from its socket. The other held on me. "Master," the ugly voice croaked. "Greatly... my people wronged you. Yet if my wounds... may atone for yours... forego your vengeance... for they are lonely... and afraid..." "Srat! I thought... " "I fought the man. Master," he gasped out. "But he... was stronger... then I... " "Huvile!" I said. "He took the ship!" Srat made a convulsive movement. He tried to speak, but only a moan came from his crocodile mouth. I leaned closer. "I die. Master," he said. "Obedient... to your... desires... " F sha-fsha and a Rishian crewman hauled me aboard the ship. Srat's corpse was left on the ramp. Other species aren't as sentimental about such things as men are. There were a few angry objections from Drath Traffic Control as we lifted, but the Drathians had long since given up Deep Space travel, and e loss of a couple of runaway slaves wasn't sufficient reason to alienate the Rishians. They were one of the few worlds that still sent tramps into Fringe space. Once away, Fsha-fsha told me all that had happened since I was sent to the rafts: "Once you'd planted the idea of escape, I had to go ahead with it," he said. "The next chance was three months later, two of us this time, just one overseer. I had a fancy plan worked out for decoying him into a side alley, but I had a freak piece of luck. It was a loading job, and a net broke and scattered cargo all over the wharf. The other slave got the whole load on his head -- and a nice-sized iron casting clipped the guard and laid him out cold. He had the controllers strapped to his arm, in plain sight, but getting to them was the hardest thing I ever did in my life. I used a metal bar from the spilled cargo on them and fainted at the same time. "I came out of it just in time. The Lxad-master and a couple of Rule-keepers were just arriving. I got up and ran for it. They wasted a little time discovering my controller was out of action, and by then I had a good start. I headed for a hideaway I'd staked out earlier, and laid up there until dark. "That night I came out and took a chance on a drinking-house that was run by a non-Drathian. I thought maybe he'd have a little symapthy for a fellow alien. I was wrong, but I strapped him to the bed and filled both my stomachs with highIF lipid food, enough to keep me going for two weeks, and took what cash he had in the place and got clear. "With money to spend, things were a little easier. I found a dive where I could lie low, no questions asked, and sent out feelers for information on where you'd been sent. The next day the little guy showed up: Srat. "He'd been hanging around, waiting for a chance to talk to someone from the Triarch's stable. I don't know what he'd been eating, but it wasn't much; and he slept in the street. "I told him what I knew. Between us, we got you located. Then the Rish ship showed up." The Rishian captain was sitting with us, listening. He wrinkled his face at me. "The H'eeaq, Srat, spoke to me in my own tongue, greatly to my astonishment. Long ago, at Rish, I'd heard the tale of the One-eyed Man who'd bartered half of the light of his world for the lives of his fellows. The symmetry of the matter demanded that I give such a one the help he asked." "The little guy didn't look like much,' Fsha-fsha said. "But he had all the guts there were." "You may take pleasure in the memory of that rarest of creatures," the Rishian said, "a loyal slave." "He was something rarer than that," I said. "A friend." F sha-fsha and I stayed with the freighter for three months; we left her on a world qled Gloy. We could have ridden her all the way to Rith, but my destination was tn the opposite direction: Zeridajh. Fsha-fsha stayed with 'me. One world was like another to him, be said. As for the ancestral Tree, having cut the ties, like a man recovered from an infatuation, he wasn't eager to retie them. The Rish captain paid us off for our services aboard his vessel -- we had rebuilt his standby power section, as well as pulling regular shifts with the crew. That gave us enough cash to re-outfit ourselves witii respectable clothes and take rooms at a decent inn near the port, while we looked for a Center-bound berth. We had a long wait, but it could have been worse. There were shops and taverns and apartments built among the towering ruins of a vast city ten thousand years dead; but the ruins were overgrown and softened by time, so that the town seemed to be built among forested hills, unless you saw it from the air and realized that the mountains were vinegrown structures. There was work for us on Gloy. By living frugally and saving what we earned, we accumulated enough for passenger berths inward to Tanix, a crossroads world where the volume of in-Galaxy shipping was more encouraging. After a few days' wait, we signed on a mile-long superliner. It was a four months cruise. At the end of it we stepped off on the soil of a busy trading planet, and looked up at the blaze of sky that meant Center was close. 'Tt's still three thousand lights run to Zeridajh," the Second Officer for Power told me as he paid me off. "Why not sign on for another cruise? Good powermen are hard to find. I can offer a bonus." "It's useless, Second," Fsha-fsha answered for me. "Danger is searching for a magic flower that only grows in one special garden, at the hub of the galaxy." After a couple of weeks of jobhunting, we signed on as scrapers on a Center-bound tub crewed by small, damp dandies from the edge of Center. That was the only berth a highbrow Center skipper would consider handing a barbarian from what they called the Outworlds. It was a long cruise, and as far as I could tell the jobs that fell to a scraper on a Center ship were just as dirty as on any Outworld tub. On our next cruise, we found ourselves stranded on a backwater world by a broken-down guidance system on the rotting hulk we had shipped in on. We waited for a berth outbound for a month, then took service under a local constabulary boss as mercenaries. We did a lot of jumping around the planet, marching in ragged jungle and eating of inedible rations, and in the end barely got clear with our hides intact when the constabulary turned out to be a dacoit force. I made one interesting discovery. My sorting skill came in handy in using the bill-hook machetes issued to the troops. After one or two small runins, I had keyed-in a whole set of reflex responses that made me as good as the battalion champion. Usually, though, we didn't see much of the planets we visited. It was normal practice, all across the Galaxy, ffor a world to channel all its spac faring commence and traffic through a single port, for economy of facilities and ease of control. The ports I saw were like ports in all times and climes: cities without personality, reduced to the lowest common denominator of the thousand breeds of beings they served. After that, we found another slot, and another after that, on a small, fast lugger from Thlinthor and on that jump we had a change in luck. I was sound asleep in the offwatch cubbyhole. I rated as a scraper when the alarm sirens went off. It took me thirty seconds to roll out and get across the deck to the screens where Fsha-fsha and half a dozen other on-watch crewmen were gaping at a sight that you only see once in a lifetime in Deep Space: a derelict hulk, adrift between the stars. This one was vast -- and you could tell at one glance that she was old... We were five hundred miles apart, closing on courses that were only slightly skew. That made two miracles. We hove to ten miles from her and took a good look, while the Power Officer conferred with Command deck. Then the word came through to resume course. "Huh?" Both Fsha-fsha and I swiveled on him. From the instant I'd seen the hulk, visions of prizemoney had been dancing in my head like sugarplums. "He's not going to salvage her?" Fsha-fsha came as close to yelling as his mild nature would let him. IF The Power Officer gave him a fishy face. Like the rest of the crew, he AVas an amphibian who slept in a tank of salty water for three hours at a stretch -- and like all his tribe, he was an agorophobe to the last feathery scale on his rudimentary rudder fin. "It ith not practical," he said coldly. "That tub's fifty thousand years old if she's a day," Fsha-fsha protested. "And I'm a mud-puppy if she's not a Riv Surveyor! She'll be loaded with Pre-collapse star maps! There'll be data aboard her that's been lost since before Thlinthor lofted her first satellite!" "How would you propothe that we acthelerate thuch a math as that to interthtellar velothity?" he put the question to us. "The hulk Our engines were not dethigned for thuch thtethes." "She looks intact," I said. "Maybe her engines are still in working order." "Tho?" "We can put a prize crew aboard her and bring her in under her own power." The Thlinthorian tucked his head between his shoulder-plates, his version of a shudder. "We Thlinthorians have no tathte for thuch exthploiths," he said. "Our mithion is the thafe delivery of conthigned cargo." "You don't have to go out on the hull," Fsha-fsha said. "Danger and I will volunteer." e Power Officer goggled his eyes at us and conferred with Command Deck. After a few minutes of talk word came through that his excellency the captain was agreeable. "One stipulation," I said. "We'll do the dirty work; but we take a quarter-share between us." The captain made a counter offer of a twentieth-share each. We compromised on a tenth. I don't like it," Fsha-fsha told me. "He gave in too easily." We suited up and took a small boat across to the old ship. She was a glossy brown ovoid about half a mile in diameter. Matching up with her was like landing on a planetoid. We found a hatch and a set of outside controls that let us into a dusty cavernous hold. From there we went on through passenger quarters and program rooms. In what looked like an armory, Fsha-fsha and I looked over a treasure-house of sophisticated personal offense and defensive devices. Everything was in perfect order; and nowhere, then or later, did we find a bone of her crew or any hint of what had happened to her. A call from the captain on the portable communicator reminded us sharply that we had a job to do. We followed a passage big enough to drive a moving van through, found the engine room, about the size of Grand Central Station. The generators ranged down the center of it were as massive as four-story apartment buildings. I whistled when saw them, but Fsha-fsha took it in stride. "I've seen bigger," he said. "Let's check out the system." It took us four hours to work out the meaning of the oversized controls ranged in a circular console around a swivel chair the size of a bank vault. But the old power plant started up with as sweet a rumble as if it had been in use every day. After a Ittle experimental jockeying, I got the big bull aligned on course coordinates and fed the power to the generators. As soon as we were up to cruise velocity, his excellency the captain ordered us back aboard. "Who are you sending over to relieve us?" I asked him. "You may leave that detail to my disorethion," he told me in no-argument tone. "I can't leave this Power Section unmanned," I said. He bugged hot eyes at me on the four-inch screen of the pocket communicator and repeated his order, louder, with quotations from the Universal Code. "I don't like it," Fshafsha said. "But I'm afraid we haven't got much choice." B ack aboard the mother ship, our reception was definitely cool. Word had gotten around that we'd pigged an entire share of the goodies. That suited me all right. The Hilinthorians weren't the kind who inspired much in the way of affection. When we were well inside the Thlinthorian system the Pow Officer called Fsha-fsha and me in a smile. "I confeth I entertained a thertain thuthpithion of you both," he confided. 'ut now that we have arrived in the Home Thystem with our thuperb thafely in the thlave orbit, I thee that my cauthion was exthethive. Gentlemen, join me in a drink!" We accepted the invitation, and he poured out nice-sized tumblers of wine. I was just reaching for mine when Fsha-fsha jostled the table and sloshed wine from the glasses. The Power Officer waved aside his apologies and turned to ring for a mess boy to mop up the puddle. In the instant his back was turned, Fsha-fsha dropped a small pellet in our host's drink, where it dissolved instantly. We all sat smiling benignly at each other while the small Thlinthorian servant mopped up, then lifted our glasses and swallowed. Fsha-fsha gulped his down whole. I took a nice swallow of mine, nodded my appreciation and took another. Our host chugalugged and poured another round. We sipped this one; he watched us and we watched him. I saw his eyes wander to the timescale on the wall. Fsha-fsha looked at it too. "How long does it take your stuff to work?" he inquired pleasantly of the Thlinthorian. The latter goggled his eyes, made small choking noises, then in a strangled voice said: "A quarter of an hour." Fsha-fsha nodded, "I can feel it, a little," we said. "We both belted a couple of null-pills before we came up, just in case you had any funIF ny stuff you wanted to try. How do you feel?" "Not well." The fish-mouth swallowed air. "I cannot control... my thpeedh!" "Right. Now, tell us all about everything. Take your time. It'll be an hour or two before we hit Planetary Control..." F sha-fsha and I reached the port less than ten minutes behind the boat we had trailed in from where our ship and the Riz vessel were parked, a hundred thousand miles out. We found the captain already at the mutual-congratulation stage with the portmaster. His already prominent eyes nearly rolled down his scaled cheeks when he saw us. "Perhaps the captain forgot to mention that he owes Captain Danger and myself a tenth share of the prize," Fshafsha said, after the introductions were over. "That's a prepothterouth faithhood" the officer started, but Fshafsha out him off by producing a pocket recorder of a type allowable in every law court in the Bar. The scene that followed lacked that sense of close comradeship so desirable in captain-crew relationships, but there was nothing our former commander could do but go along. Afterward, in the four-room suite we treated ourselves to to rest up in, Fshasha said, "Ah, by the way, Danger, I happened to pick up a little souvenir aboard that Riv tub." He did something complicated with the groont-hide valise he carried his personal gear in and took out a small packet which opened out into a crisscross of flat, black straps with a round pillbox in the center. "I checked it out," he said, sounding like a kid with a new bike. "This baby is something. A personal body shield. Wear it under your tunic. Sets up a field nothing gets through I" "Nifty," I agreed, and worked the slides on the bottom of my kit bag. "I took a fancy to this little jewel." I held up my memento. It was a very handsome jeweled wristlet, which just fit around my neck. "Uh-huh, pretty," Fsha-fsha. said. "This harness of mine is so light you don't know you're wearing it -- " "It's not only pretty, it's a sense booster," I interrupted his paean. "It lowers the stimulusresponse threshold for sight, hearing and touch. "I guess we out-traded old Slinth-face after all," Fsha-fsha said, after we'd each checked out the other's keepsake. "This squares the little finesse he tried with the sleepy-pills." The salvage authorities made us wait around for almost a month, but since they were keeping forty Thlinthorian crew waiting, too, in the end they had to publish the valuation and pay off all hands. Between us, Fsha-fsha and I netted more .cash than the lifetime earnings of a spacer. We shipped out the same day, a short hop to Hrix, a human-occupied world in a big twenty-seven planet system only half a light from Thlinthor. It seemed like a good idea not to linger around town after the payoff. On Hrix, we shopped for a vessel of our own; something small, and super-fast. We still had over thousand lights to cover. H rix was a good place to shiphunt. It had been a major shipbuilding world for a hundred thousand years, since before the era known as the Collapse when the original Central Empire folded -- and incidentally gave the upstart tribe called Man his chance to spread out over the Galaxy. For two weeks we looked at brand-new ships, good-as-new second and third and tenth-hand jobs, crawled over hulls, poked into power sections, kicked figurative tires in every shipyard in town, and were no farther along than the day we started. The last evening Fshafsha and I were at a table under the lanterns swinging from the low branches of the Heo trees in the drinking garden attached to our inn, talking over the day's frustrations. "These new hulls we've been looking at," Fsha-fsha said; "massproduced junk; not like the good old days." "The old stuff isn't much either," I countered. "They were built to last, and at those crawl-speeds, they had to." "Anything we can afford, we we don't want," Fsha-fsha summed it up. "And anything we want, costs too much." our wine jug spoke up. "If you gentlebeings are looking for something a little out of the usual line, I have dh old grand-uncle -- fine old chap, full of lore about the old times -- he's over three hundred, you know -- who still dabbles in buying and selling. There's a hull in his yard that might be just what the sirs are looking for, with a little fixing up -- " We managed to break into the pitch long enough to find out where the ship was, and after emptying our jug, took a walk down there. It looked like every junkyard I've ever seen. The place was grown with weeds taller than I was, and the sales office was a salvaged escape blister, with flowers growing in little clay pots in the old jet orifices. There was a light on, though, and we pounded until an old crookbacked fellow with a wisp of pink hair and a jaw like a snapping turtle poked his head out. We explained what we wanted, and who had sent us. He cackled and rubbed his hands and allowed as how we'd come to the right place. By this time, we were both thinking we'd made a mistake. There was nothing here but junk so old that even the peimalloy was beginning to corrode. But we followed him back between towering stacks of obsolete parts and assemblies, over heaps of warped hull-plates, through a maze of stacked atmosphere fittings to what looked like a thicket dense enough for Bre'r Rabbit to hide in. "If you sirs'll just pull aside a few tendrils of that danged wire vine," the old boy suggested. Fshafsha had his mouth open to decline, IF but out of curiosity I started stripping away a finger-thick creeper, and back in the green-black gloom I saw a curve of dull-polished metal. Fsha-fsha joined in, and in five minutes we had uncovered the stern of what had once been elegance personified. "She was built by Sanjio," the oldster told us. "See theref' He pointed at an ornate emblem, still jewel bright against the tarnished metal. Fsha-fsha ran his hand over curve of the boat's flank, peered along the slim-lined hull. Our eyes met. "How much?" he said. "You'll put her in shape, restore her," the old man said. "You would not cut her up for the heavy metal in her jump fields, or convert her for rock-prospecting." It was a question. We both yelled no loud enough to satisfy him. The old man nodded. "I like you boys' looks," he said. "I wouldn't sell her to just anybody. She's yours." I t took us a day to ut the boat free of the growth that had been crawling over for eighty years. The old man, whose name was Knoute, managed, with curses and pleas and some help from a halfwitted lad named Dune, to start up a long-defunct yard-tug and move the boat into a cleared space big enough to give us access to her. Fsha-fsha and I went through her from stem to stern. She was complete, original right down to the old log book still lying in the chart table. It gave us some data to do further research on this evening at dinner and read the boat's oif. I spent an afternoon in the shipping archieves in the city, and that history to Fsha-fsha: 'Gleerim, fifty-five feet, one hundred and nine tons. Built by Sanjio, Master builder to Prince Ahax, as color-bearer to the Great House, in the year Qon..." "That would be just over four thousand years ago," Knoute put in. "In her maiden year, the Prince Ahax raced her at Poylon and at Gael, and led a field of thirty-two to win at Fonteraine. In her fortieth year, with a long record of crest-plate, the boat was sold at auction by the hard-pressed and aged prince. Purchased by a Vidian leader, she was passed on to the Solarch of Trie, whose chief of staff, recognizing the patrician lines of the vessel, refitted her as his personal scout. Captured nineteen years later in a surprise raid by the Alzethi, the boat was mounted on a wooden-wheeled platform and hauled by chained dire-beasts in a triumphal procession through the streets of Alz. Thereafter, for more than a century, the boat lay abandoned on her rotting cart at the edge of the noisome town. "Greu of Balgreu found the forgotten boat, and set a crew to cutting her out of her bed of tangled wildwood. Fancying the vessel's classic lines, the invading chieftain removed her to a field depot, where his shipfitters hammered in vain at her locked port. Greu himself hackIF ed at her crestplate, desiring it as an ornament, but succeeded only in shattering his favorite dress shortsword. In his rage, he ordered flammable rubble to te heaped on the boat, soaked with volatiles and fired. After he razed the city and departed with his troops, the boat again lay in neglect for two centuries. Found by the Imperial Survey Team of his Effulgent majesty, Lleon the Fortieth, she was returned to Ahax, where she was refitted and returned to service as colorbearer to the imperial house." "That was just her first days," Knoute said. "She's been many places since then, seen many sights. And the vessel doesn't exist to this day that can outrun her." It took us three months to repair, refit, clean, polish, tune and equip the boat to suit ourselves and old Knoute. But in the end even he had to admit that Prince Ahax himself couldn't have done her more proud. And when the time came to pay him, he graciously waved the money aside. "I won't live to spend it," he said. "And you boys have bled yourselves white, doing her up. You'll need what you've got left to cruise her as she should be cruised, wanting nothing. Take her, and see that the lines you add to her log, don't shame her history." T wo thousand light-years is a goodly distance, even when you are riding the raveniag stream of of the fabric of the continuum and converted to acceleration that flung us inward at ten, a hundred, a thousand times the velocity of propagation of radiation. We covered the distance in jumps of a month or more, while the blaze of stars thickened across the skies ahead like clotting cream. We saw worlds where intelligent life had existed for thousands of centuries, planets that were the graveyards of cultures older than the dinosaurs of Earth. When our funds ran low, we made the discovery that even at the heart of the galaxy, there were people who would pay us a premium for fast delivery of passengers and freight. Along the way we encountered life-forms that ranged from intelligent gnat-swarms to the titanic slumbering swamp-minds of Buroom. We found men on a hundred worlds, some rugged pioneers barely holding their own against a hostile environment of ice or desert or competing flora and faima, others the polished and refined product of millenia-old empires that had evolved cultural machinery as formal and complex as a lifelong ballet. There were worlds where we were welcomed to cities made of jade and crystal, and worlds where sharpers with faces like Neapolitan street-urchins plotted to rob and kill us; but our Riv souvenirs served us well, and a certain instinct for survival got us through. And the day came when Zeridajh swam onto our forward screens, a misty green world with two big moons. T he Port of Radaj was a multilevel composition of gardens, pools, trees, glass-smooth paving, sculpture-clean facades, with the transient shipping parked on dispersed pads like big toys set out for play. Fsha-fsha and I dressed up in our best shore-going clothes and rode a toy train in to a countryclub style terminal. The landing formalities were minimal. A gray-haired smoothie who reminded me of an older Sir Orfeo welcomed us to the planet, handed us illuminated handmaps that showed us our position as a moving point of green light and asked how he could be of service. "I'd like to get news of someone," I told him. "A Lady -- the Lady Raire." "Of what house?" "I don't know; but she was traveling in the company of Lord Desroy." He directed us to an information center that turned out to be manned by a computer. After a few minutes of dose questioning and a display of triograms, the machine voice advised me that the lady I sought was of the house of Ancinet-Ohanore, and that an interview with the head of the house would be my best bet for further information. "But is she here?" I pressed the point. "Did she get back home safely?" The computer repeated its advice and added that transportation was available outside gate twelve. We, crossed the wide floor of the terminal and came out on a platform where a gorgeous scarlet and silver inlaid porcelain car waited. We climbed' in, and a discreet voice whispered an inquiry as to our destination. "The Ancinet-Chanore estate," I told it, and it clicked and whooshed away along a curving, soaring avenue that lofted us high above wooded hills and rolling acres of lawn with glass-smooth towers in pastel colors pushing up among the crowns of multi-thousand year-old Heo trees. After a fast halfihour run, the car swooped down an exit ramp and pulled up in front of an imposing gate. A gray-liveried man on duty there asked us a few questions, played with a console inside his glass-walled cubicle and advised us that the Lord Pastaine was at leisure and would be happy to grant us an interview. fsha commented as the car tooled up the drive and deposited us at the edge of a terrace fronting a sculptured facade. "Maybe it's just a civilized world," I suggested. Another servitor in gray greeted us and ushered us inside, through a wide hall where sunlight slanting down through a faceted ceiling shed a rosy glow on luminous wood and brocaded hangings, winked from polished sculptures perched in shadowy recesses. And I thought of the Lady Raire, coming from this, living in a cave grubbed out of a dirt bank, singing to herself as she planted wild flowers along the paths. We came out into a patio, crossIF ed that and went along a colonnaded arcade, enoierged at the edge of a stretch of blue-violet grass as down across a wide slope to a line of trees with the sheen of water beyond them. We followed a tiled path beside flowering shrubs, rounded a shallow pool where a fountain jetted liquid sunshine into the air and arrived at a small covered terrace, where a vast, elderly man with a face like a clean-shaven Moses rested in an elaborately padded chair. #'rhe Lord Pastaine," the ser' A vant said casually and stepped to adjust the gle of the old gentleman's chair to a more conversational position. Its occupant looked us over impassively. He said, "Thank you, Dos," and indicated a pair of benches next to him. I introduced myself and Fsha-fsha and we sat. Dos murmured an offer of refreshment and we asked for a light wine. He went away and Lord Pastaine gave me a keen glance. "A man from a very distant world," he said. "A man who is no stranger to violence." His look turned to Fsha-fsha. "And a being equally far from his home world, tested also in the crucible of adversity." He pushed his lips out and looked thoughtful. "And what brings such adventurers here to ancient Zeridajh, to call upon an aged idler, dozing away the long afternoon of his life?" "I met a Lady once. Milord," I said. "She was a long way from home -- as far as I am, now, from mine. I tried to help her get home, but... things went wrong;" I'd like to know, sir, if the Lady Raire is here, safe, on Zeridajh." His face changed, turned to wood. "The Lady Raire?" His voice had a thin, strained quality. "What do you know of her?" "I was hired by Sir Orfeo," I said. "To help on the hunt. There was an accident..." I gave him a brief account of the rest of the story. "I tried to find a lead to the H'eeaq," I finished. "But with no luck." It was on the tip of my tongue to tell him the rest, about Huville and the glimpse I'd gotten of her, three years before on Drath; but for some reason I didn't say it. The old man watched me all the while I talked. Then he shook his head. "I am sorry, sir," he said, "that I have no good tidings for you." "She never came back, then?" His mouth worked. He started to speak, twice, then said, "No! The devoted child whom I knew was spirited away by stealth by those whom I trusted, and never returned!" I let that sink in. The golden light across the wide lawn seemed to fade suddenly to a tawdry glare. The vision of the empty years rose up in front of me. "... send out a search expedition," Fsha-fsha was saying. "It might be possible -- " "The Lady Raire is dead!" The old man raised his voice. "Dead! Let us speak of other matters!" The servant brought the wine, and I tried to sip mine and make small talk, but it wasn't a success. Across the lawn a servant in neat gray livery was walking a leashed animal along a path that sparkled blood-red in the afternoon sun. The animal didn't seem to like the idea of a stroll. He planted all four feet and pulled backwards. The man stopped and mopped at his forehead while the reluctant pet sat on his haunches and yawned. When he did that, I was sure. I hadn't seen a cat for almost three years, but I knew this one. His name was Eureka. xxvm T en minutes later, as Fsha-fsha and I crossed the lawn toward the house, a broad-shouldered man with curled gray hair and an elegantly simple tunic emerged from a side path ahead. "You spoke to his Lordship of Milady Raixe?" he said in a low voice as we came up. "That's right." He jerked his head toward the house. "Come along to where we can talk quietly. Peihaps we can exchange information to our mutual advantage." He led us by back passages into the deep, coil gloom of a room fitted up like an office for a planetary president. He told us his name was Sir Tanis, and got out a flagon and glasses and poured a round. "The girl reappeared three months ago," he said. "Unfortunately," he added solemnly, "she is quite insane. Her first act was to disavow all hfr most hallowed obligations to # , the house of Ancient-Chanore. Now, I gather from the few scraps of advice that reached my ears -- " "Dos tks as well as listens, I take it," I said. "A useful man," Sir Tanis agreed crisply. "As I was saying, I deduce that you know something of Milady's activities while away from home. Perhaps you can tell me something which might explain the sad disaffection that afflicts her." "Why did Lord Pastaine lie to us? I countered. "The old man is in his dotage," he snapped. "Perhaps in his mind she is dead." His slips quirked in a mirthless smile. "He's unused to rebellion among the very young." The brief smile dropped. "But she didn't stop with asserting her contempt for his lordship's doddering counsels; she spurned as well the advices of her most devoted friends!" "Advices on what?" "Family matters," Tanis said shortly. "But you were about to tell me what's behind her incomprehensible behavior." "Was I?' "I assmned as much. I confided in you!" Tanis looked thwarted. "See here, if it's a matter of, ah, compensation for services rendered... " "Maybe you'de better give me a little more background." H e looked at me sternly. "As you are doubtless aware, the House of Ancinet-Chanore is one of the most distinguished on the planet," he said. "We trace our lineage back through eleven thousand years, to IF Lord of Ancient Traviai. Naitunally such a house enjoys a deserved preeminence among its peers. And the head of that house must be an individual of the very highest attainments. Why -- " he looked indignant -- "if the Seat passed to anyone but myself, in a generation -- less I -- we should deteriorate to the status of a mere fossil, lacking in all finesse in the arts that mark a truly superior Seat!" "What's the Lady Raire got to do with all that?" "Surely you're aware. Why else are you here?" "Pretend we're not." "The girl is an orphan," Sir Tanis said shortly. "Of the Primary Line. In addition -- " he sounded exasperated -- "all the collateral heirs -- all! -- are either dead, exiled or otherwise disqualified in the voting!" "So?" "She -- a mere girl, utterly lacking in experience -- other than whatever bizarre influences she may have come under during her absence -- holds in her hands five ballots! Five, out of nine! She -- ineligible herself, of course, on a number of counts -- controls the selectiqp of the next Head of this House! Why else do you imagine she was kidnapped?" "Kidnapped?" He nodded vigorously. "And since her return, she's not only rebuffed my most' cordial offers of association but has alienated every other conceivable candidate as well." He lowered his voice. "In fact, it's my personal belief the girl intends to lend her support to an Outsider!" "Sir Tanis, I guess all this family politics business is pretty interesting to you, but it's over my head like a wild pitch. I came here to see Milady Raire, to find out if she was safe and well. First I'm told she's dead, then that she's lost her mind. I'd like to see myself. If you could arrange -- " "No," he said flatly. "That is quite impossible." "May I ask why?" "Sir Revenat would never allow it. He closets her as closely as a prize breeding soumU "And who's Sir Revenat?" He raised his eyebrows. "Her husband," he said. # Fshafsha consoled me as we walked along the echoing corridor, following the servant Sir Tanis had assigned to lead us back into the outside world. "Not much joy there. But at least she's home, and alive." We crossed an inner court where a fountain made soft music. A door opened along the passage ahead. An elderly woman, thin, tight-oorseted, dressed in a chiton of shimmering white, spoke to the servant, who faded away like smoke. She turned and looked at me with sharp eyes, studied Fsha-fsha's alien face. "You've come to help her," she said to him in a dry, husky voice. "You know, and you've come to her aid." "Ah... whose aid, Milady?" he asked her. The old lady grimaced and said: "The Lady Raire's. She's in mortal danger; that's why her father ordered her sent away, on his deathbed! But none will believe me." "What kind of damger is she in?" "I don't know -- but it's there, thick in the air around her! Poor child, so all alone." "Milady." I stepped forward. "I've come a long way. I want to see her before I go. Can you arrange it?" "Of course, you fool, else why would I have lain here in wait like a mud-roach over a wine-arbor?" She returned her attention to Fshafsha. "Tonight -- at the Gathering of the House. Milady will be present; even Sir Revenat wouldn't dare defy custom so far as to deny her; and you shall be there, too! Listen! This is what you must do... " H alf an hour later, we were walking along a tiled street of craftsmen's shops that was worn to a pastel smoothness that blended with the soft-toned facades that lined it. There were flowers in beds and rows and urns and boxes, and in hanging trays that filtered the early light over open doorways where merchants fussed over displays of goods. I could smell freshbaked bread and roasting coffee, and leather and wood-smoke. It was an atmosphere that made the events inside the ancient House of Ancinet-Chanore seem like an afternoon with the Red Queen. "If you ask me, the whole bunch of them is round the bend," Fshafsha said. "I think the old lady had an idea I was in touch with the spirit world." On a bench in front of a carpenter's stall, a man sat tapping with a mallet and chisel at a slab of tangerine-colored wood. He looked up and grinned at me. "As pretty a bit of emberwood as ever a man laid steel to, eh?" he said. "Strange," Fsha-fsha said. "You only see hand laibor on backward' worlds and rich ones. On all the others, a machine would be squeezing a gob of plastic into whatever shape was wanted." In another stall, an aged woman was looming a rug of rich-colored fibers. Across the way, a boy sat in an open doorway, polishing what looked like a second-hand silver chalice. Up ahead, I saw the tailor shop the old woman -- Milady Bezaille, her name was -- had told us about. An old fellow with a face like an elf was rolling out a bolt of green cloth with a texture like hand-rubbed metal. He looked up and ducked his head as we came in. "Ah, the sirs desire a change of costume?" Fsha-fsha was already feeling the green stuff. "How about an outfit made of this?" "Ah, the being has an eye," the old fellow cackled. "Radiant, is it not? Loomed by Y'sallo, of course." I picked out a black like a slice of midnight in the Fringe. The tailor flipped up the end of the material and whirled it around my shoulders, stepped back and studied the effect thoughtfully. "I see the composition as an expression of experience," he nodded. "Yes, it's possible. Stark, unadorned IF -- but for the handsome necklace. Riv work, is it not? Yes, a statement of self-affirmation, an incitement to discipline." He went to work measuring and clucking. When he started cutting, we crossed a small bridge to a park where there were tables on the lawn beside a small lemon-yeUow dome. We sat and ate pastries and then went along to a shoemaker, who sliced into glossy hides and in an hour had fitted new boots to both of us. When we got back to the tailor shop, the new clothes were waiting; We asked directions to a refresher station, and after an ion-haith and a little attention to my hair and Fsha-fsha's giU fringes, tried out our new costumes. "You're an impressive figure," Fsha-fsha said admiringly. "In spite of your decorations, your size and muscular development give you a certain animal beauty; and I must say the little tailor set you off to best advantage." "The high collar helps," I conceded. "But I'm afraid the eye-patch spoils the effect." "Wrong. It enhances the impression of an elegant corsair." "Well, if the old Tree could see you now, it would have to admit you're the fanciest nut that ever dropped off it," I said. It was twilight in the parklike city. We still had an hour to kill, and decided to use it in a stroll around the Old Town -- the ancient market place that was the original center of the city. It was a picturesque place, and we were just in time to see the merchants folding up their stalls, and streaming away to the drinking terraces under the strung ligjhits among the trees. The sun set in a glory of painted clouds; the bnUiant spread of stars that covered the sky lake luminous clotted cream was obscured by the overcast. The empty streets dimmed into deep shadow, as we turned our steps toward the gates of the estate Ancinet-Chanore. M y sense booster was set at # normal; any higher setting made ordinary sound and light levels painful. For the last hundred feet I had been listening to the gjuey wheeze that was the sound of hunMn lungs, coming from somewhere up ahead. I touched Fsha-fsha's aim "In the alley," I said softly. "Just one man." He stepped ahead of me, and in the same instant a small, lean figure sprang into view twenty feet ahead stopped in a half-crouch facing us, with his feet planted wide and his gun hand up and aimed. I saw a lightning-wink and heard the soft whap of a filament pistol. Fshafsha oofed as he took the bolt square in the chest; a corona outlined his figure in vivid blue as the harness bled the energy off to the ground. Then he was on the assassin; his arm rose and fell with the sound of a hammer hitting a grapefruit, and the would-be killer tumbled backward and slid down the wall to sprawl on the pavement. I went flat against the wall, flipped the booster up to max, heard nothing but the normal night sounds of a city. "Clear," I said. Fsha-fsha leaned over the little man. "I hit him too hard," he said. "He's dead." "Maybe the old lady was right," I said. "Or maybe Sir Tanis wasn't as foolish as he sounded," Fsha-fsha grunted. "Or Milord Pastaine as senile as they claimed." "A lot of maybes," I said. "Let's dump him out of sight and get out of here, in case a cleanup squad is following." We lifted him and tossed him in the narrow passage he had picked as a hiding place. "Which way?" Fsha-fsha asked. "Straight ahead, to the main gates," I said. "You're still going there -- after this?" "More than ever. Somebody made a mistake, sending a hit man out. They made a second not making it stick. We'll give them a chance to go for three." The Lady BezaUle had given in' X struction to the gatekeeper; he bowed us through like visiting royalty into an atmosphere of lights and sounds and movement. The grand celebration known as the Gathering of the House seemed to be going on all over the grounds and throughout the house. We made our way through the throngs of beautiful people, looking for a familiar face. Sir Tanis popped up and gave a lifted-eyebrow look, but there wasn't enough surprise there to make him the man behind the assassination attempt. "Captain Danger; Sir Fsha-fsha; I confess I didn't expect to see you here." He was aching to ask by whose order we were included in the select gathering, but apparently his instinct for the oblique approach kept nim from the direct question. "It seemed the least I coidd do," I said in what I hoped was a cryptic tone. Has Milady Raire arrived yet?" "Ha! She and Lord Revenat will make a dramatic entrance after the rest of us have been allowed to consume ourselves in restless patience for a time, you can be sure." He led us to the nearest refreshment server, which dispensed foamy concoctions in big tulip glasses. We stood on the lawn, fencing with him verbally for a few minuites, then parted with an implied understanding that whatever happened, our weight would go to the side of Justice -- whatever that meant. Milady Bezaille appeared, looked us over and gave a sniff that seemed to mean approval of our new finery. I had a feeling she'd regrettecr her earlier rash impulse of inviting two space tramps to the Grand Soiree of the year. "Look sharp, now," she cautioned me. "When Milord Revenat designs to appear he'll be swamped at once with attention of certain unwholesome elements of the House. That will be your chance to catch a glimpse of Milady Raire. See if you read in her face other than pain and terror!" A slender, dandified lad sauntered over after the beldame had whisked away. IF "I see the noble lady is attempting to influence you," he said. "Beware of her, sirs. She is not of sound mind." "She was just tipping us off that the punch in number three bowl is spiked with hand-blaster pellets," I assured him. He gave me a quick, sideways look. "What, ah, did she say to you about Sir Fane?" "Ah-hah!" I nodded. "Don't believe it!" he snapped. "Lies! Damnable lies!" I edged closer to him. "What about Sir Tanis?" I muttered. He shifted his eyes. "Watch him. All his talk about unilateral revisionism and ancillary line vigor -- pure superstition." "And Lord Revenat?" He looked startled. "You don't mean -- " He turned and scuttled away without finisihing the sentence. "Danger -- are you sure this is the right place we're in?" Fsha-fsha whispered. "If the Lady Raire is anything like the rest of this menagerie..." "She isn't," I said. I stopped talking as a stir ran through the little conversational groups around us. Across the lawn a servant in crimson livery was towing a floating floodlight along above the heads of a couple just descending a wide, shallow flight of steps from a landing terrace above. I hadn't seen the heli arrive. The man was tall, wideshouldered, trim, like all Zeridajhans, dressed in a form-ftting winecolored outfit with an elaborate pectoral ornament suspended around his neck on a chain. The woman beside Him was slim, elegantly gowned in silvery gauze, with her black hair piled hi, intricately entwined in a jeweled coronet. I'd never seen her in jewels before. But that perfect face, set in an expression that was the absence of all expression, was that of Milady Raire. T he crowd moved in their direction as if by a common impulse to rush up and greet the newcomers; but the movement halted and the restless murmur of chatter resumed, but with a new, nervous note that was evident in the shrill cackle of laughter and the over-hearty waving of arms. I made my way across through the crowd, watching the circle of impressively clad males collecting around the newcomers. They moved off in a body, with a great deal of exuberant joking that sounded about as sincere as a losing politician's congratulatory telegram to the winner. I trailed along at a distance of ten yards, while the group swirled around a drink dispenser and broke up into a central group and half a dozen squeezed-out satellites. The lucky winners steered their prize on an evasion course, dropping a few members along the way when clumsy footwork involved them in exchanges of amenities with other, less favored groups. In five minutes, the tall man in the burgundy tights was fenced into a comer by half a dozen hardy victors, while the lady in silver stood for the moment alone at a few yards distance. I looked at her pale, aloof face, still as youthful and unline d as it had been seven years ago, when we last talked together under the white sun of Gar #. I took a deep breath and started across the lawn toward her. She didn't notice me until I was ten feet from her; then she turned slowly and her eyes went across me as coolly as the first breath of winter. They came back again, and this time flickered -- and held on me. Suddenly I was conscious of the scar, two-thirds concealed by the high collar of my jacket, that marked the comer of my jaw -- and of the black patch over my right eye. Her eyes moved over me, back to my face. They widened. Her lips parted, then I was standing before her. "Milady Raire," I said, and heard the hoarse note in my voice. "Can... can it be you?" Her voice was the faintest of whispers. A hard hand took my arm, spun me ground. do not believe, sir," a furious voice snarled, "that you have the privilege of approach to Her Ladyship!" He got that far before his eyes took in what they were looking at; his voice trailed off. His mouth hung open. He dropped my arm and took a step back. It was the man named Huvile. #Qir Revenat," someone started, iand let it drop. I could almost hear his mind racing, looking for the right line to take. But nobody. even someone who had only talked to me for five minutes three years before, could pretend to have forgotten my face: black-skinned, scarred, one-eyed. "It... it... I..." "Sir Revenat," I said as smoothly as I could under the circumstances, and gave him a stiff little half-bow. That passed the ball to him. He could play it any way he liked from there. "Why, why -- " He took my arm, in a gentler grip this time. "My dear fellow! What an extraordinary pleasure!" His eyes went to Milady Raire. She returned a look as impersonal as the carved face of a statue. She didn't look at me. "If you will excuse us. Milady." HuvileRevenat ducked his head and hustled me past her, and the silent crowd parted to let us through. I nside a white damask room with a wall of glass through which the lights of the garden cast a soft polychrome glow, Huvile faced me. He looked a little different than he had the last time I had seen him, wearing the coarse kilt of a slave in the household of the Triarch of Drath. He had lost the gaunt look and was trimmed, manicured and polished like a prize-winning boar. "You've changed," he said. "For a moment, I almost failed to recognize you." His voice was hearty enough, but his eyes were as alert as a coiled rattler. I nodded. "A year on the Triarch's rafts have that effect." "The rafts?" He looked shocked. "But... but..." IF "The penalty for freeing slaves," I said. "And not being able to pay the fines." "But... I assumed..." "Everything I owned was on my boat," I said. His face was turning darker, as if pressure was building up beMnd it. "Your boat... I... ah..." He made an effort to get hold of himself. "See here, didn't you direct, ah, the young woman to lift ship at once?" His look told me he was waiting to see if I'd pick up the impersonal reference to the Lady Raire. I shook my head and waited. "But she arrived a moment or two after I reached the port. You did send her?" "Yes." "Of course," he hurried on. "She seemed most distraught, poor creature. I explained to her that a kindly stranger -- yourself -- had purchased my freedom, and presumably hers as well. And while we spoke, a creature appeared. A ghastly-looking little beggar. The unfortunate girl was terrified by the sight of him; I drove the thing off, and then... and then she insisted that we lift at once!" Huvile shook his head, looking grieved. "I understand now. In her frenzy to make good her escape, she abandoned you, her unknown savior." A thought hit him, sharpened his eyes. "You hadn't, ah, personally known the poor child?" "I saw her for a moment at the Triarch's palace -- from a distance." He sighed. His look got more comfortable. "A tragedy that your kindness was rewarded by such ingratitude. Believe me, sir, I am eternally in your debt! I acknowledge it freely," He lowered his voice. "But let us keep the details in confidence, between us. It would not be desirable at this moment to introduce a new factor into the somewhat complex equation of House affairs." He was getting expansive now. "We shouldn't like my ability to reward you as you deserve to suffer through any fallacious construction that might be put on matters, eh?" "I take it you took the female slave under your wing," I said. He gave me a sharp look. He would have liked her left out of the conversation. "She would have needed to get home," I amplified. "Ah, yes, I think I see now," he smiled a sad, sweet smile. "You were taken with her beauty. But alas -- " his eyes held on mine -- "she died." # #"That's very sad," I said. "How A did it happen?" "My friend, wouldn't it be better to forget her? Who knows what terrible pressures might not have influenced her to the despicable course she chose? Poor waif, she suffered greatly. Her death gave her surcease." His expression got brisk. "And now, in what way can I serve you, sir? Tell me how I can make amends for the injustice done you." He talked some more, offered me the hospitality of the estate, a meal, even, delicately, money. His relief when I turned them down was obvious. Now that he saw I wasn't going to be nasty about the little misunderstanding, his confidence was coming back. I let him ramble on. When he ran down, I said: "How about an introduction to the lady in silver? The Lady Raire, I understand her name is." His face went hard. "This is impossible. The lady is not well. Strange faces upset her." "Too bad," I said. "In that case, I guess there's not much for me to stay around for." "Must you go? But of course if you have business matters requiring your attention, I mustn't keep you." He went across to an archway leading toward the front of the house; he was so eager to get rid of me the easy way that he almost fell down getting there. He didn't realize I'd turned the opposite way and stepped back out onto the terrace until I was already across it and headed across the lawn to where Milady Raire still stood alone, like a pale statue in the winking light of an illuminated fountain. S he watched me come across the the lawn to her. I could hear the hurrying footsteps of Sir Revenat behind me, not quite running, heard someone intercept him, the babble of self-important voices. I walked up to her and my eyes held on her face. It was as rigid as a death mask. "Milady, what happened after you left Drath?" I ask her without preamble. "I -- " she started and her eyes showed shock. "Then -- on Drath -- it was you!" "You're scared. Milady. They're all scared of Huvile, but you most of all. Tell me why." "Billy Danger," she said, and for an instant the iron discipline of her face broke; but she caught herself. "Fly, Billy Danger," she whispered in English. "Fly hence in the instant, ere thou, too, art lost, for nothing can rescue me!" I heard feet coming up fast behind me and turned to see Sir Revenat, his face white with fury masked by a ghastly grin. "You are elusive, my friend," he grated. His fingers were playing with the heavy ornament dangling on his chest, an ovoid with a look of half-familiarity. "I fear you've lost your way. The gate lies at the opposite end of the gardens." His hand reached for me as if to guide me back to the path, but I leaned aside from it, turned to Milady Raire. I put out my hand as if to offer it to her, instead reached farther, ran my fingers down her silken side -- and felt the slight, tell-tale lump there. She gasped and drew back. Huville let out a roar and caught at my arm savagely. A concerted gasp had gone up from every mouth within gasping range. "Barbarian wretch!" Huvile howled. "You'd lay hands on the person of a lady of the house of Ancinet-Chanore?" The rest was just an inarticulate bellow backed up by a chorus of the same from the assembled spectators. "Enough!" Huvile yelled. "This adventurer comes among us to mock the dignity of this house! He openly offers insult to a noble lady of IF the ancient line!" He whirled to face the crowd. "Then I'll oblige him with a taste of the just fury of that line! Milords! Bring me my sword box!" He turned back to me, and there was red fury enough in his eyes for ten houses. He stepped close, but his face close to mine. His fingers played with the slave controller at his neck. I judged the distance for a jump, but he was ready with his finger on the control. And we both knew that a touch by anyone but himself would activate it. "You saw," he hissed. "You know her life is in my hands. If you expose me, she dies!" T he lords and ladies of the House of Ancinet-Chanore may have been out of touch with reality in some ways, but when it came to setting up the stage for a bloodduel on their fancy lawn, under the gay lights, they were the soul of efficiency. While a ring of armed servants stood obtrusively around me, others hurried away and came back with a fancy inlaid box of darkly polished wood. Huvile lifted the lid with a flourish and took out a straight-bladed saber heavy enough to behead a peasant with. There was a lot of gold thread and the jewelwork around the hilt, but it was a butcher's weapon. Another one, just like it but without the jelly beans, was trotted out for me. Sir Tanis made the formal speech. He cited all the hallowed customs that surrounded the curiouscustom that allowed an irate Lord of the House to take a cleaver to anyone who annoyed him sufficiently, and then in a less pompous tone explained the rules to me. They weren't much. We'd hack at each other until Sir Revenat was satisfied or dead. "Man to man," Sir Tanis finished his spiel. The house of AncinetChanore defends its honor with the ancient right of its strong arm! Let her detractors beware!" Then the crowd backed off and the servants formed up a loose ring, fifty feet across. Huvile brandished his sword and his eyes ate me alive. Fsha-fsha took my jacket and leaned close to give me a last word of advice. "Remember your sorting training, Billy Danger! Key in your response patterns to his attack modes! Play him until you read him like a glorm-bulb line! Then strike!" "If I don't make it," I said, "find a way to tell them." "You'll make it," he said. "But -- yeah -- I'll do my best." He withdrew at a curt command from Tanis, and Huvile moved out to meet me. He held the sword lightly, as if his wrist was used to handling it. I had an idea the upstart sir had spent a lot of hours practicing the elevating art of throwing his weight around. He moved in with the blade held low, pointed straight at me. I imitated his stance. He made a small feint and I slapped his blade with mine and moved back as he dropped his point and lunged and missed my thigh by an inch. I tried to blank my mind, key in his approach-feint-attack gambit to a side-jump-and-counter-cut syndrome. It was hard to bring the pattern I wanted into clear focus without running through it, physically. I backed, made Huvile blink by doing the jump and cut in pantomine, two sword-lengths from contact distance. A nervous titter ran through the audience, but that was all right. I was pretty sure Fd set the response pattern I wanted to at least one of his approaches. But he had others. He came after me, cautious now, checking me out. He tried a high thrust, a low cut, a one-two lunge past my guard. I backed shamelessly, for each attack tried to key in an appropriate response -- I felt myself whip to one side, slash in an automatic reaction to a repetition of his opening gambit. My pK)int caught his sleeve and ripped through the wine-red cloth. So far so good. Huvile back-pedaled, then tried a furious frontal attack. I gave ground, my arm countering him with no conscious thought on my part. He realized the tactic was getting him nowhere and dropped his point, whipped it up suddenly and he dived forward. I caught it barely in time, deflected the blade over my right shoulder, and was chest to chest with him, our hilts locked together. "It's necessary for me to kill you," he whispered. "You understand that it's impossible for me to let you live." His eyes looked mad; his free hand still gripped the controller. "If I die -- she dies. And if I suspect you may be gaining --  I plunge the lever home. Your only choice is to sacrifice yourself." He pushed me away and jabbed a vicious cut at me, and then we were circling again. M y brain seemed to be set in concrete. Huvile was nuts -- no doubt about that. He had brazened his way into the midst of the house of Ancinet Chanore on the strength of the invisible knife he held at Milady's heart; and if lie saw the game was up -- the fragile game he'd nursed along for months now -- he'd kill her wifii utter finality and in the most incredible agony, as the magneum flare set in her heart burned its way through her ribs. There was just one possibility. The Drathians had gone to a lot of trouble to link the life of the slave to the well-being of the master; but there was one inevitable weak spot. Even the most sophisticated circuitry couldn't do its job after it was destroyed. I'd proven that; I had crushed Hu vile's controller under my foot -- and he was s 'I alive. But on the other hand, maybe that had been a freak, a defective controller. Huvile had been two miles away at the time. And it was no special trick to rig an electronic device so that the cutoff of a carrier signal actuated a respon d! in a receiver... There was sweat on my face, n o all of it from the exercise. My only chance was to smash the controller and kill Huvile with the same stroke -- and hope for the best. Because, win or lose, the Lady Raire was better dead than a slave to this madman. While these merry thoughts were racing through my mind, I was backing, feinting and parrying automatically. And suddenly Huville's blade dropped, flickered in at me and out again and I felt my right leg sag and go out from under me. I caught myself in time to counter an over-eager swing and strike back from one knee, but it was only a moment's delay of the inevitable. I saw his arm swing back for the finishing stroke -- There was a swirl of silver, and the Lady Raire was at his side, clutching his sword arm -- and then she crumpled, white-faced, as the controller's automatic angina circuit clamped iron fingers on her heart. But it was enough. While Huvile staggered, off-balance, his free hand groping, I came up in a one-legged lunge. He saw me, brought his sword up and back, at the same time snatched for the controller. He was a fraction of a second late. My point struck it, burst it into chips, slammed on through bone and muscle and lodged in his spine. He fell slowly, with an amazed look on his face. I saw him hit! then I went over sideways and grabbed for the gapping wound in my thigh and felt darkness close in. T he House of Ancinet-Chanore was very manly about acknowledging its mistake. I sat across from old Lord Pastaine under the canopy on his favorite sun terrace, telling him for the sixth or seventh time how it had happened that I had bought freedom for two slaves and then sent them jDff together in my boat while I went to the rafts. He wagged his Mosaic head and looked grave. "A serious misjudgment of character on your part," he said. "Yet were we not all guilty of misjudgment? When the Lady Raire returned, so unexpectedly, I wished to open my heart to her -- suppKsed -- savior. I granted the interloper -- Huvile, you say his name is?" He shook his head. "An upstart, of no family -- I granted him, I say, every freedom, every honor in the gift of Ancinet-Chanore. As for Milady -- if she chose to clos#t herself in solitary withdrawal from the comfort of her family -- could I say nay? And then I saw the beginnings of the wretched maneuverings that would make this stranger Head after my death. I called for Milady Raire to attend me -- and she refused! Me! It was unheard of! Can you blame me for striking her from my memory, as one dead? And as for the others -- venal, grasping, foolish! To what depths has the House not fallen since the days of my youth, a thousand years agone?" I listened to him ramble on. I had been hearing the same story from a variety of directions during the past three days, while my leg healed under the miracle-medicines of old Zeridajh. If any one of the Lady Raire's doting relations had car enough about her to take just one, good, searching look into her eyes, they'd have seen that someIF thing was seriously amiss. But all they saw was a pawn of the board of House politics, and her silent appeals had gone unanswered. As for why she hadn't defied Huvile, faced death before submitting to enslavement to his ambitions -- I could guess that half an hour of sub-fatal angina might be a persuasion that would convince a victim who could laugh at the threat of mere death. "If you'd arrange for me to see the Lady Raire for a few minutes," I butted in the Milord's nmibling assessment of the former Sir Revenat's character, "I'd be most appreciative." He looked grave. "I believe we all agree that it would be best not to reawaken the unhappy emotions of these past months by and references thereto," he said. "We are grateful to you. Captain Danger. The House will be forever in your debt. I'm sure Milady will understand if you slip quietly away, leaving her to the ministrations of her family, those who know where her interests lie." I got the idea. It had been explained to me in slightly varying terms by no less than twelve solemn pillars of the House of AncinetChanore. The Lady Raire, having had one close brush with an interloper, would not be exposed to the questionable influences of another. They were glad I'd happened along in time to break the spell. But now the lady would return to her own kind, her own life. And they were right, of course. I didn't know just what it .was that Jongo would have to say to Milady Raire of the ancient house of Ancinet-Chanore. I'd had my share of wild fancies, but none of them were wild enough to include offering her boudoir space aboard my boat as an alternative to the Estates of Ancinet-Chanore. On the way out. Sir Tanis offered me a crack at a lot of fancy trade opportunities, letters of recommendation to any house I mit name and assorted other vague rewards, and ended with a hint, none too closely veiled, that any further attempt to see the Lady would end unhappily for me. I told him I got the idea and walked out into the twilight through the high gates of the house with no more than a slight limp to remind me of my visit. xxxn F sha-fsha was waiting for me at the boat. I told him about my parting interviews with the House of Ancinet-Chanore. He listened. "You never learn, do you, Billy?" He wagged his head sadly. "I've learned that there's no place for me in fancy company," I said. "Give me the honest solitude of space, and a trail of new worlds waiting ahead. That's my style." "You saved the lady's life on Gar #, you know," Fsha-fsha said, talking to himself. "If you hadn't done what you did -- when you did -- she'd never have lived out the first week. It was too bad you didn't look and listen a bit before you handed her over to the H'eeaq. But then, who would have known, eh?" "Let's forget all that," I suggested. "The ship's trimmed to lift -- " "Then at Drath, you picked her out from under the Tri arch's nose in as smooth a counter swindle as I've ever heard of. He had no idea of letting them go, you know. They'd have been arrested at the port -- except that the Rule Keepers were caught short when the tub lifted without you. Your only mistake was in trusting Huvile -- " 'Trusting Huvile!" "You trusted him. You sent him along to an unguarded ship. If you'd worked just one angle a little more subtly -- gone out yourself to see the lady aboard and then lifted, leaving Huvile behind -- but this is neither here nor there. For the second time, you saved her -- and handed her over to her enemy." "I know that," I snapped. "I've kicked myself for it -- " "And now -- here you are, repeating the pattern," he bored on. "Three times and out." "What?" "You saved the Lady again, Billy. Plucked her out of the wicked hands of her tormentor..." "And?" "And handed her over to her enemies." "Her family has her!" "That's what I said." "Then..." Wheels were beginning to whirl in front of my eyes. "Maybe," I said, "you'd better tell me exactly what you're talking about S he opened her eyes, startled, when I leaned over her sleeping couch. "Billy Danger," she breathed. "Is it thee? Why came you not to me ere now?"  "An acute attack of stupidity. Milady," I whispered. She smiled a dazzling smile. "My name is Raire, Billy. I am no one's lady." "You're mine," I said. "Always, my Billy." She reached and drew my face down to hers. Her lips were softer even than I had dreamed. "Come," I said. She rose silently and Eureka rubbed himself across her knees. They followed me across the wide room, along a still corridor. In the great hall below, I asked her to show me the shortest route to the grounds. She led the way along a cloistered arcade, through a walled garden, onto a wide terrace above the dark sweep of skylit lawn. "Billy. When I pass this door, the house arm will be set off." "I know. That's why I dropped in on the roof in a one-man heli. Too bad we couldn't leave the same way, Let's go." We started out at a run toward the trees. We had gone fifty feet when lights sprang up across the back of the house. I turned and took aim with my filament gun and knocked out the two biggest polyarcs, and we sprinted for cover, Eureka loping in the lead. A new light sprang up, just too late, swept the stretch of grass we had just crossed. We reached the trees, went flat. Men were coming through the rear doors of the house. There was a lot of yelling. ## IF I looked up. Against the swirls and clots of stars, nothing was visible. I checked my watch again; Fshafsha was two minutes late. The line of men was moving down across the lawn. In half a minute, they'd reach the trees. There was a wink of light from above, followed by a dull baroom as of distant thunder. A high whistling screech became audible, descended to a full-throated roar; something flashed overhead -- a long shape ablaze with lights. A second gunboat slammed across in the wake of the first. "That cuts it," I said. "Fsha-fsha's been picked off." A terrific detonation boomed, drawling itself out into a bellow of power. I saw a dark shape flash past against the clotted stars. The men on the lawn saw it, too. They halted their advance, looking up at the dark boat that had shot past on an opposite course to the security cutters. "Look!" The Lady Raire pointed. Something big and dark was drifting toward our position across the lake. the surface of the water, concealed from the house by the trees. We jumped up and ran for it. Her bow lights came on, dazzling as suns, traversed over us, lanced out to blind the men beyond the trees. I could see the soft glow from her open entry port. We splashed out into knee-deep water; I tossed Eureka in, then jumped, caught the rail, pulled myself in, reached back for the Lady Raire as men burst through the screen of trees. Then e were inside, pressed flat against the floor by the surge of acceleration as the old racer lifted and screamed away. miles, Zeridajh was a misty emerald crescent, dwindling on our screens. "It was a pretty world, Milady," I said. "You're going to miss it." "Dost know what place I truly dreamed of, my Billy, when the gray years of Drath lengthened?" "The garden," I suggested. "They're very beautiful, with the sun on them." "I dreamt of the caves, and the green shade of the giant peas, and the simple loyalty of our good Eureka." She strok the gizzled head. "Never," Fsha-fsha said from the depths of the big command chair, "will I understand the motivations of you propagators. Still, life in your company promises to be diverting. I'll say that for it." He showed us that ghastly expression he used. "But tell me, Milady -- if the question isn't impertinent -- what were you doing out there, at the far end of the Eastern Arm?" "Haven't you guessed?" she smiled at him. "Until Lord Desroy caught me, I was running away." "I knew it!" Fsha-fsha boomed. "And now that the great quest is finished -- where to?" "Anywhere," I said. I put my arm around Raire's flower-slim waist and drew her to me. "Anywhere at all." The sweet hum of the mighty and ancient engines drummed softly through the deck. Together, we watched the blaze of Center move hue Dear Editor: A good futuristic fantasy cover has a lot to do with the sale of a good science-fiction periodical. No other cover design has ever matched the ones that are displayed on the Galaxy publications. The best IVe noticed, though, are the ones illustrated by McKenna. His creativity does not lack realism, yet still captures the fantastic mood of the setting. If it's possible, I wish you would try and get more of McKenna's illustrations on the covers of your publications. Good science-fiction literature deserves good illustration. -- Rick Barbagelata, # Mohawk Place, Amsterdam, N.Y.    Gents : Many years ago, I think when I was about in the fifth grade, in a one-room country school complete with twin outhouses, I sneaked out back of the barn and dug up the one page in the Sunday Funnies that my ma used to tear out and bury before I was allowed to look. That is how I discovered "Buck Rodgers." I still don't know to this day whether I kept on reading it because I liked it -- or because Mama threw a fit. Whatever the reason, I became hooked, and eventually graduated to mainlining, via the printed word. Now, after all these years, I find myself becoming bored with the endless barraige of sociological stories written by deviant psychiatrists. To relieve the boredom, and maybe avoid having to go find some new kind of escapist literature, I have begun to pick the stories apart, on the low, somewhat moronic level of obvious contradictions. Herein, I seem to have found myself a new hobby, but it ought to be a lot more fun if I can aggravate the writers themselves or, better yet, the editor who lets these things by. Besides, this is one hell of a good way for me to get back at editors for all the times they have picked my articles apart and made me rewrite them! Sooooo -- I have founded, and am President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, pot-walloper, janitor, and sole member of the Beezlehead Society of America -- an organization devoted to the picking-apart of science-fiction stories. For my first effort, let us take "Truce of Consequences." Where the Ancient Librarian points a light at "Retief's heart and says: I've got this light right in your eye -- ." But, the pen-and-ink on page # shows the BE M's with eyes about where Homo the Sap's would be? Then, again, in "Science-Fiction Byways," Lin Carter says: "Way back in #, when (We) were very young -- " So what's with him? Two heads, or a mouse in his pocket? And, I wish C. C. MacApp would make up his mind. When he was describing the Remm, first they had necksv then they didn't. Outside the Overseers' ship was "a wall or forest." OK -- I igdve up! Which was it? And, while we're at it, which was it, "a huge arrow -- or a feathered spear?" For that matter, maybe Morrow can tell me what he did with the membrane, and where's the "huge arrow or feathered spear" the creature was trying to throw? Cumawn, fellers -- you can do better than this. If I wrote an article with that many holes in it, they'd drum me out of the typewriter corps, and maybe sentence me to grow long fingernails for good measure! And, if the eddytore don't say sumthin' about this lousy typing. I'll be sore dissapointed! I was taught in the overstrikenospace school. -- Eugene Austin, P.O. Box #, Greenwood, Nebraska.    Dear Editor: The Marsh issue of If was exceptional. The simplicity of the cover proclaimed an unusual issue, and it did not lie. Although I thoroughly enjoyed it, I would have liked a longer story by Isaac Asimov. More authors I would like to see; Fredric Brown, Theodore Sturgeon, Clifford Simak, more (much more) Isaae Asimov, and someone you may vaguely remember, Frederik Pohl. Re your editorial in the Februaiy issue : there are some things we can do to "convert" others to science fiction. One way is to support the good sf TV shows and movies (for example. Star Trek, Fantastic Voyage, The Invaders, The #st Century, an excellent blend of science fact and fiction with the emphasis on fact, and Fahrenheit #), My other idea is crazier. Many people who don't care for modem sf are crazy about the works of, say Jules Veme or H. G. Wells. Why? TheyWe old! So here's my plan: All new sf magazines and books will be dated before #. New readers, thinking them classic reprints, will swarm to purchase them. Old fen, knowing the plan, will still read them, putting up with indexing problems and so forth for the ideal of spreading sf. Of course, there are inherent difficulties, but if the pro"gram went into effect with publicity for the "reprints"... May If win the next Hugo, too. -- John Borger, Box #, Route #, Parkersburg, West Virginia. i(c ( Dead Editor: I found the Hugowinner s' issue of If to be very, very good, but the biggest impression was made not by the contents, but by the packaging. Mr. McKenna's cover was (is) beautiful. My only criticism is: get rid of that spaceship. It is unnecessary (someone had the presence of mind to put it on the hack cover) and detracts from the overall effect even more than the printing on the front. Nothing personal intended, but I wouldn't want the March cover to win a Best-Cover Hugo: I'd rather see the covers get even better. It just goes to show that a cover which is good art deserves as much recognition as one which is good illustraFoster, State College, Pennsylvania #.    Dear Fred: I was interested to see the letter in the current If about my "Star Trek book (even though the lady didn't like it). It occurred to me that maybe your readers would be interested in a few things that have emerged from it. The book, which is an adaptation of seven scripts from the TV show, went on sale in January, and by March had already gone into a second printing. In those three months I got more fan mail about it than I have for any of my #I other books. Some of these were from women (chiefly housewives and college undergraduates) complaining that I didn't do justice to Mr. Spock, whom they adore. The vast majority, however, were from children in the #-# age backet. Almost unanimously, they (a) asked for another book; (b) asked what other books I had written ; and (c) asked what other s-f books I would recommend. Answering this influx was almost as big a job as writing the book had been, and the letters are still coming in at the rate of two or three a day. My editor at Bantam tells me that they too have been swamped. In short, it looks as though there is a whole new audience being created here, not just for s-f on television, but in print as well. Almost none of these youngsters has seen a s-f book or magazine before. Incidentally, it now appears that the show is going to go on another year. -- and I am doing another book, which will probably be out in November. -- James Blish. # You forgot to mention the other thing you've been doing lately -- writing your new novel, Faust Aleph-Null, which starts in our next issue ! And that, it would seem, is about all for this month. As you know, each month we bring you one new writer making his first professional appearance in print anywhere with a science-fiction story. We've been doing this in every issue of If for the past five years or so, and when we started the wise money was betting that we'd have to give it up in six months because there just weren't that many new writers coming along. As you see, the wise money was wrong. Not only that, but the stories have in fact been coming in in such good supply that this month we're bringing you two firsts -- both of them, as it happens, coming from across the sea. Number One is E. Audrey Walton, who lives in Coventry, England, is the grand-daughter of an amateur astronomer and the daughter of a suffragette (yes, we can see the effects of heredity!) and came to us by way of a short-story contest run by the National Fantasy Fan Federation. (Not the first time we've found ourselves buying stories entered in this annual event.) Number Two Is Alan Dirkson, who is also English, but wrote Adamjs Eva while living in a garret in Paris where the stairs were a rickety ladder and the door was a hole in the roof, and when last heard from had moved on to Spain. He reports it took him # rejection slips to make his first sale. You see? Never give up! -- The Editor IF won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! o o o o o oo o o  # # # o O O O O o o The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales lax, if any. Your j No. CX# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer I Order from Galaxy #I Hudson street. New York # , N. Y. A new science-fiction magazine " with a new concept in publishing mmt mrm liacTHjgue wil storifcp#i  Faust Aleph Null! The Age of Science Versus Sorcery! A Terrifying New Novel W Jf v. v' I A new science-fiction magazine with a new concept in publishing Each issue will be filled with stories by Foreign Authors Will give American readers a chance to read the science-fiction stories by Authors popular in the rest of the world. Written and translated by the top writers throughout the world. We hope you will like it. Frederik Pohl, Editor David Perfon , Production Manager Robert M. Guinn, Publisher by Keith Laumer by Fred Saberhagen by James Blish by Philip Jose Farmer by Roger Deeley by Burt K. Filer by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter by Sam Moskowitz IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope? The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # Vol. #, No. # IF  Editorial W th this issue we've combined Worlds of Tomorrow with If -- and, as you've noticed, raised the price of If to #c. We don't suppose there's much need to explain the rise in price, because we've all got pretty used to the fact that everything eternally costs more. (But you can avoid this particular price rise by subscribing now at the old rates -- see ad elsewhere in this issue.) As long as the price had to go up anyway, we've taken this opportunity of bringing into If some of the most popular features from Worlds of Tomorrow -- Philip Jose Farmer's Riverworld stories, Sam Moskowitz's articles and so on. We think If -- which, as you know, already holds the Hugo as the world's leading sciencefiction magazine -- will be even better for the change... But Worlds of Tomorrow , alas, is with us no more. T he funny thing, about Worlds of Tomorrow is that at seemed to have every chance of surviving. Magazine publishing has become a chancy sort of business in the past decade or so, and the mortality tables for new publications are alarming. If you look at the circulation statements for even the titans of the field -- Saturday Evening Post, Life, you name it -- you can see the change. Where once a big slick magazine expected to sell half its copies on the newsstands and half by subscription, now # or more go by subscription. This isn't because subscription sales are more profitable; quite the reverse. In fact, the figures are rather astonishing: a big slick magazine whose singlecopy price amounts to, say, # in a year will happily sell you a subscription for half that -- and will pay # or # in list rental and mailing cost to get you to send in that five-dollar check I The freight is paid by advertising, of course. For nearly evejy magazine, though, the newsstand sales -- the copies are bought by people like ourselves, browsing over the stacks in the comer drug store and buying what looks like it would be interesting to read -- are harder and harder to come by. Worlds of Tomorrow, in its early issues, had a great deal of publicity, a friendly response from readers and a good sale -- where it got on the stands at all. But that was the catch. Even after four years, it simply was not getting out in some of the best parts of the country. Lacking the advertising subsidy that permits a big slick to lose money on every copy it sells and still come up smiling, the effort to stay afloat with a limited distribution was too precarious to maintain. So -- now we have If, enhanced with some of the best features of Worlds of Tomorrow, and Galaxy; and we'll just concentrate on continuing to make them better and better! 'vas-fauxim The Dark Continents of Your Mind maintain energy , enthusiasm and the will to do? Do your personality and power of accomplishment ebb and flow -- like a stream controlled by some unseen valve? Deep within you are minute organisms. From their function spring your emotions. They govern your creative ideas and moods -- yes, even your enjoyment of life. Once they were thought to be the mysterious seat of the soul -- and to be left unexplored. Now cast aside superstition and learn to direct intelligently these powers of self. Let the Rosicrucians; an age-old fraternity of thinking men and women (not a religion), point out how you may fashion life as you want it -- by making the fullest use of these little-understood natural faculties which you possess; This is a challenge to make the most of your heritage as a human. Write for the Free Book, "The Mastery of Life,'! Address: Scribe P.B.L San Jose, California # U.S.A, Scribe: P.B.L San Jose, California #, U.S.A. Please send copy of booklet, "The Mastery of Life" which I shall read as directed. Name Address City State Please Include Your Zip Code IF  Serial Illustrated by Morrow There's no such thing as sorcery . But what was it, then, that turned fears to gold and destroyed lives? I T he magician said, "No, I can't help you to persuade a woman. Should you want her raped, I can arrange that. If you want to rape her yourself, I can arrange that too, with more difficulty -- possibly more than you'd have to exert on your own hook. But I can't supply you with any philtres or formulae. My specialty is crimes of violence. Chiefly, murder." Baines shot a sidelong glance at his special assistant, Jack Ginsberg, who as usual wore no expression whatsoever and had not a crease out of true. It was nice to be able to trust someone. Baines said: "You're very frank." "I try to leave as little mystery as possible," Theron Ware -- Baines knew that was indeed his real name -- said promptly. "From the client's point of view, black magic is a body of technique, like engineering. The more he knows about it, the easier I find it makes coming to an agreement." #xto trade secrets? Arcane lore, and so on?" "Some -- mostly the products of my own research, and very few of them of any real importance to you. The main scholium of magic is 'arcane' only because most people don't know what books to read or where to find them. Given those books -- and sometimes, somebody to translate them for you -- you could learn almost everything important that I know in a year. To make something of the material, of course, you'd have to have the talent, since magic is also an art. With books and the gift, you could become a magician -- either you are or you aren't, there are no bad magicians, any more than there is such a thing as a bad mathematician -- in about twenty years. If it didn't kill you first, of course, in some equivalent of a laboratory accident. It takes that long, give or take a few years, to develop the skills involved. I don't mean to say you wouldn't find it formidable, but the age of secrecy is past. And really the old codes were rather simpleminded, much easier to read than, say, musical notation. If they weren't, well, computers could break (them in a hurry. # ' Most of these generalities were familiar stuff to Baines, as Ware doubtless knew. Baines suspected the magician of offering them in order to allow time for himself to be studied by the client. This suspicion crystallized promptly as a swinging door to the left of Ware's huge desk opened silently, and a shortskirted blonde girl in a pageboy coiffure came in with a letter on a small silver tray. "Excuse me," Ware said, taking the tray. "We wouldn't have been interrupted if this weren't important." The envelope crackled expensively in his hands as he opened it. Baines watched the girl go out -- a moving object, to be sure, but except that she reminded him vaguely of someone else, nothing at all extraordinary -- and then went openly about inspecting Ware. As usual, he started with the man's chosen surroundings. the afternoon sunlight, might have been the book-lined study of any doctor or lawyer, except that the room and the furniture were outsize. That said very little about Ware, for the house was a rented cliffside palazzo. There were bigger ones available in Positano had Ware been interested in still higher ceilings and worse acoustics. Though most of the books looked Id, the office was no mustier th an, say the library of Merton College, and it contained far fewer positively ancient instruments. The only trace in it which might have been attributable to magic was a faint smell of mixed incenses which the Tyrrhenian air coming in through the opened windows could not entirely dispell; but it was so slight that the nose soon tired of trying to detect it. Besides, it was hardly diagnostic by itself. Small Italian churches, for instance, also smelled like that. So did the drawing rooms of Egyptian police chiefs. Ware himself was remarkable, but with only a single exception, only in the sense that all men are unique to the eye of the bom captain. A small, spare man he was, dressed in natural Irish tweeds, a Frenchcuffed shirt linked with what looked like ordinary steel, a narrow gray silk four-in-hand tie with a single very small sapphire chessman -- a rook -- tacked to it. His leanness seemed to be held together with cables. Baines was sure that he was physically strong, despite a marked pallor, and that his belt size had not changed since he had been in high school. His present apparent age was deceptive. His face was seamed, and his bushy gray eyebrows now only slightly suggested that he had once been red-haired. His hair proper could not, for -- herein lay his one marked oddity -- he was tonsured, like a monk, blue veins crawling across his bare white scalp as across the papery back of his hands. An innocent bystander might have taken him to be in his late sixties. Baines knew him to be exactly his own age, which was fortyeight. Black magic, not surprisingIF ly, was obviously a wearing profession; cerebrotonic types like Ware, as Baines had often observed of the scientists who worked for Consolidated Warfare Service (div. A. O. LeFebre et Cie.), ordinarily look about forty-five from a real age of thirty until their hair turns white, if a heart attack doesn't knock them off in the interim. The parchment crackled, and Jack Ginsberg unobtrusively touched his dispatch case, setting going again a tape recorder back in Rome. Baines thought Ware saw this, but chose to take no notice. The magician said: "Of course, it's also faster if my clients are equally frank with me." "I should think you'd know all about me by now," Baines said. He felt an inner admiration. The ability to pick up an interrupted conversation exactly where it had been left off is rare in a man. Women do it easily, but seldom to any purpose. "Oh, Dun and Bradstreet," Ware said, "newspaper morgues, and of course the grapevine -- I have all that, naturally. But I'll still need to ask some questions." "Why not read my mind?" "Because it's more work than it's worth. I mean your excellent mind no disrespect, Mr. Baines. But one thing you must understand is that magic is hard work. I don't use it out of laziness, I am not a lazy man, but by the same token I do take the easier ways of getting what I want if easier ways are available." "You've lost me." "An example, then. All magic -- I repeat, all magic, with no exceptions whatsoever --  depends upon the oontrol of demons. By demons I mean specifically fallen angels; no lesser class can do a thing for you. Now, I know one such whose Earthly form includes a long tongue. You may find the notion comic." "Not exactly." "Let that pass for now. In any event, this is also a great prince and president, whose apparition would cost me three days of work and two weeks of subsequent exhaustion. Shall I call him up to lick stamps for me?" "I see the point," Baines said. "All right, ask your questions." "Thank you. Who sent you to me?" U A medium in Bel Air -- LosTxAngeles. She (attempted to blackmail me, so nearly successfully that I concluded that she did have some real talent and would know somebody who had more. I threatened her life, and she broke." Ware was taking notes. "I see. And she sent you to the Rosicrucians?" "She tried, but I already knew that dodge. She sent me to Monte Albano." "Ah. That surprises me, a little. I wouldn't have thought that you'd have any need of treasure-finders." "I do and I don't," Baines said. "I'll explain that too, but a little later, if you don't mind. Primarily I wanted someone in your specialty -- murder -- and of course the white monks were of no use there. I didn't even broach the subject with them. Frankly, I only wanted to test your reputation, of which I'd had hints; I too can use newspaper morgues. Their horror when I mentioned you was enough to convince me that I ought to talk to you, at least" "Sensible. Then you don't really believe in magic yet -- only in "I'm not," Baines said guardedly, "a religious man." "Precisely put. Hence, you want a demonstration. Did you bring with you the mirror I mentioned on the phone to your assistant?" Silently, -- Jack took from his inside jacket pocket a waxed-paper envelope, from which he in turn removed a lady's hand-mirror sealed in glassine. He handed it to Baines, who broke the seal. "Good. Look in it." Out of the comers of Baines' eyes, two slow thick tears of dark venous blood were crawling down beside his nose. He lowered the mirror and stared at Ware. "Hypnotism," he said, quite steadily. "I had hoped for better." "Wipe them off," Ware said, unruffled. Baines pulled out his immaculate monogrammed handkerchief. On the white-on-white fabric, the red stains turned slowly into butteryellow gold. "I suggest you take those to a government metallurgist tomorrow," Ware said. "I could hardly have hypnotized him. Now peihaps we might get down to business." "I thought you said -- " " -- that even the simplest trick requires a demon. So I did, and I meant it. He is sitting at your back now, Air. Baines, and he will be there until day after tomorrow at this hour. Remember that: day after tomorrow. It will cost me dearly to have turned this little piece of do such things for a skeptical client -- and it will be included in my bill. Now, if you please, Mr. Baines, what do you want?" B aines handed the handkerchief to Jack, who folded it carefully and put it back in its waxedpaper wrapper. "I," Baines said, "of course want someone killed. Tracelessly." "Of course; but who?" "I'll tell you that in a minute. First of all, do you exercise any scruples?" # "Quite a few," Ware said. "For instance, I don't kill my friends, not for any client. And possibly I might balk at certain strangers. However, in general, I do have strangers sent for, on a regular scale of charges." "Then we had better explore the possibilities," Baines said. "I've got an ex-wife who's a gross inconvenience to me. Do you balk at that?" "Has she any children -- by you or anybody else?" "No, none aitall." "In that case, there's no problem. For that kind of job, my standard fee is fifteen thousand dollars, flat." Despite himself, Baines stared in astonishment. "Is that all?" he said at last. "That's all. I suspect that I'm almost as wealthy as you are, Mr. IF Baines. After all, I can find treasure as handily as the white monks can -- indeed, a good deal better. I use these alimony cases to keep my name before the public. Financially they're a loss to me." "What kinds of fees are you interested in?" "I begin to exert myself slightly If this man was a charlatan, he was a grandiose one. Baines said, "Let's stick to the alimony case for the moment. Or rather, suppose I don't care about the alimony, as in fact I don't. Instead, I might not only want her dead, but I might want her to die badly. To suffer." "I don't charge extra for that." "Why not?" "Mr. Baines," Ware said patiently, "I remind you, please, that I myself am not a killer. I merely summon and direct the agent. I think it very likely -- in fact, it is beyond doubt -- (that any patient I have sent for dies in an access of horror and agony beyond your power to imagine, or even mine. But you did specify that you wanted your murder done 'tracelessly,' which obviously means that I must have no unusual marks left on the patient. I prefer it that way myself. How then could I prove suffering if you asked for it, in a way inarguable enough to charge you extra for it? "Or, look at the other side of the shield, Mr. Baines. Every now and then, an unusual divorce client asks that the ex-consort be carried away painlessly, even sweetly, out of some residue of sentiment. I could collect an extra fee fo that, on a contingent basis, that is, if the body turns out to show no overt marks of disease or violence. But my agents are demons. Sweetness is not a trait they can be compelled to exhibit; so I never accept that kind of condition from a client, either. Death is what you pay for, and death is what you get. The circumstances are up to the agent, and I don't offer my clients anything that I know I can't deliver." "All right, I'm answered," Baines said. "Forget Dolores -- actually she's only a minor nuisance, and only one of several, for that matter. Now let's talk about the other end of the spectrum. Suppose instead that I should ask you to... send for... a great political figure. Say, the governor of California. Or, if he's a friend of yours, pick a similar figure who isn't." Ware nodded. "He'll do well enough. But you'll recall that I asked you about children. Had you really turned out to have been an alimony case, I should next have asked you about surviving relatives. My fees rise in direct proportion to the numbers and kinds of people a given death is likely to affect. This is partly what you call scruples, and partly a species of self-defense. Now in the case of a reigning governor, I would charge you one dollar for every vote he got when he was last elected. Plus expenses, of course. B aines whistled in admiration. "You're the first man I've ever met who's worked out a system to make scruples pay. And I can see why you don't care about alimony cases. Some day, Mr. Ware -- " "Doctor Ware, please. I am a Doctor of Theology." "Sorry. I only meant to say that some day I'll ask you why you want so much money; you asthenics seldom can think of any good use for it. In the meantime, however, you're hired. Is it all payable in advance?" "The expenses are payable in advance; the fee is C.O.D. As you'll realize once you stop to think about it, Mr. Baines -- " "Dr. Baines. I am an LL.D." "Apologies in exchange. I want you to realize, after these courtesies, that I have never, never been bilked." Baines thought about what was supposed to be at his back until day after tomorrow. Pending the test of the golden tears on the handthat he should not try to cheat Ware. Actually, he had never planned to. "Good," he said, getting up. "By the same token, we don't need a contract. I agree to your terms." "But what for?" "Oh," Baines said, "we can use the Governor of California for a starter. Jack here will iron out any remaining details with you; I have to get back to Rome by tonight." "You did say, 'For a starter?' " Baines nodded shortly. Ware, also rising, said: "Very well.' I shall ask no questions. But in fairness, Mr. Baines, I should warn you that on your next commission of this kind, I shall ask you what you want." "By that time," Baines said, holding his excitement tightly bottled, "we'll have to exchange such confidences. Oh, Dr. Ware; will the, uh, demon on my back go away by itself when the time r s up, or must I see you again to get it taken off?" "It isn't on your back," Ware said. "And it will go away by itself. Marlowe to the contrary, misery does not love company." Baring his teeth, Baines said, "We'll see about that." II F or a moment, Jack Ginsberg felt the same soon-to-be-brief strangeness of the man who does not really know what is going on and hence thinks he might be about to be fired. It was as though something had swallowed him by mistake, and -- quite without malice -- was about to throw him up again. While he waited for the monster's nausea to settle out, Jack went through his rituals, stroking his cheeks for stubble, resettling his creases, running through last week's accounts, and thinking above all, as he usually did most of all in such interims, of what the new girl might look like squatting in her stockings. Nothing special, probably. The reality was almost always hedged around with fleshly inconveniences and piddling little preferences which could flense away at will from the clean vision. When the chief had left and Ware had come back to his desk, however, Jack was ready for business and thoroughly on top of it. He prided himself upon an absolute self-control. "Questions?" Ware said. IF ft ft wmii   " V  H  . Kr v  "   SSl-Vsc'a? .V  ; m  mWm m rjfggq MVt A Co  "A few, Doctor Ware. You mentioned expenses. What expenses?" "Chiefly travel," Ware said. "I have to see the patient, personally. In the case Doctor Baines posed, that involves a trip to California, which is a vast inconvenience to me, and goes on the bill. It includes air-fare, hotels, meals, other put-ofpocket expenses which I'll itemize when the mission is over. Then there's the question of getting to see the governor. I have colleagues in California, but there's a certain amount of influences I'll have to buy, even with the help of Consolidated Warfare -- munitions and magic are circles which don't intersect very effectively. On the whole, I think a draft for ten thousand would be none too large." All that for magic. Disgusting. But the chief believed in it, at least provisionally. It made Jack feel very queasy. "That sounds very satisfactory," he said, but he made no move toward the corporate checkbook; he was not about to issue any Valentines to strangers yet, not until there was more love touring about the landscape than he had felt in his crew-cut antennae. "We're naturally a little bit wondering, sir, why all this expense is necessary. We understand that you'd rather not ride a demon when you can fly a jet with less effort -- " "I'm not sure you do," Ware said, "but stop simpering about it and ask me about the money." "Argh... Well, sir, then, just why do you live outside the United States? We know you're still a citizen. And after all, we have freedom of religion in the States still. Why does the chief have to pay to ship you back home for one job?" "Because I'm not a common gunman," Ware said. "Because I don't care to pay income taxes, or even report my income to anybody. There are two reasons. For the benefit of your ever-attentive dispatch-case there -- since you're a deaf ear if I ever saw one -- if I lived in the United States and advertised myself as a magician, I would be charged with fraud. And if I successfully defended myself -- proved I was what I said I was -- I'd wind up in a gas chamber; if I failed to defend myself, I'd be just one more charlatan. In Europe, I cansay I'm a magician and be left alone if I can satisfy my clients; caveat emptor. Otherwise, I'd have to be constantly countants, which isn't worth the work and sooner or later runs into the law of diminishing returns. Now you can turn that thing off." A ha; there was something wrong with this joker. He was preying upon superstition. As a Reformed Orthodox Agnostic, Jack Ginsberg knew all the ins and outs of that, specially the double-entry sides. He said smoothly: "I quite understand. But don't you perhaps have almost as much trouble with the Church, here in Italy, as you would with the government back home?" "No, not under a liberal Pontificate. The modern Church discourages what it calls superstition among its adherents. I haven't encountered IP a prelate in decades who believes in the literal existence of demons -- though of course some of the Orders know better." 'To be sure," Jack said, springing his trap exultantly. "So I think, sir, that you may be overcharging us -- and haven't been quite candid with us. If you do indeed control all these great princes and presidents, you could as easily bring the chief a woman as you could bring him a treasure or a murder." "So I could," the magician said, a little wearily. "I see you've done a little reading. But I explained to Doctor Baines, and I explain again to you, that I specialize only in crimes of violence. Now, Mr. Ginsberg, I think you were about to write me an expense check." "So I was." But still he hesitated. At last Ware said with delicate politeness: "Is there some other doubt I could resolve for you, Mr. Ginsberg? I am, after all, a Doctor of Theology. Or perhaps you have a private commission you wish to broach to me?" "No," Jack said. "No, not exactly." "I see no reason why you should be shy. It's clear that you like my lamia. And in fact, she's quite free of the nuisances of human women which annoy you -- " "Damn you. I thought you read minds! You lied about that too." "I don't read minds, and I never lie," Ware said. "But I'm adept at reading faces and somatotypes. It saves me a lot of trouble and a lot of unnecessary magic. Do you want the creature or don't you# I could have her sent to you invisibly if you like." "No." "Not invisibly. I'm sorry for you. Well then, my godless and lustless friend, speak up for yourself. What would you like? Your business is long since done. Spit it out. What is it?" For a breathless instant, Jack almost said what it was, but the God in which he no longer believed was at his back. He Baade out the check and handed it over. The girl (no, not a girl), came in and took it away. "Good-bye," Theron Ware said. Jack had missed the boat again. Ill F ather F. X. Domenico Bruno Garelli read the letter again, hopefully. Father Uccello affected an Augustinian style, after his namesaint, full of rare words and outright neologisms imbedded in medieval syntax. As a stylist Fr. Domenico much preferred Roger Bacon, but that eminent anti-magician, not being a Father of the Church, tempted few imitators -- and it was possible that Fr. Domenico had misread him. But no. Involuted though the Latin of the letter was, the sense, this time, was all too plain. Fr. Domenico sighed. The practice of ceremonial magic, at least of the white kind which was the monastery's sole concern, seemed to be becoming increasingly unrewarding. Part of the difficulty, of course, lay in the fact that the chiefest traditional use (for profit) of white magic was the finding of buried treasure; and after centuries of unremitting practice by centuries of sorcerers black and white, plus the irruption into the field of such modem devices as the mine-detector, there was very little buried treasure left to find. Of late, the troves revealed by those under the governments of Och and Bethor -- with the former of whom in particular lay the bestowal of "a purse springing with gold" -- had increasingly turned out to be underseas, or in places like Fort (Knox or a Swiss bank, making the recovery enterprises so colossal and mischancy as to remove all possibility of profit for client and monastery alike. On the whole, black magicians had an easier time of it -- at least in this life; one must never forget, Fr. Domenico reminded himself hastily, that they were also damned eternally. It was as mysterious as it had always 'been that such infernal spirits as Lucifuge Rofocale power to a mortal whose soul Hell would almost inevitably have won anyhow, considering the character of the average sorcerer, and considering how easily such pacts could be voided at the last instant; and that God would allow such demonic malice to be vented through the sorcerer upon the innocent. But that was simply another version of the Problem of Evil, for which the Church had long had the answer (or the dual answer) of free will and original sin. It had to be recalled, too, that even the practice of white or Transcendental magic was officially a mortal sin, fpr the modem Church held that all trafficking with spirits -- including the unfallen, since such dealings inevitably assumed the angels to be demiurges and other Kabbalistic semi-deities -- wias an abomination, regardless of intent. Once upon a time, it had been recognized that (barring the undertaking of an actual pact) only a man of the highest piety, of the highest purpose, and in the highest state of ritual and spiritual purification could hope to summon and control a demon, let alone an angel; but there had been too many lapses of intent, and then of act. In both practicality and compassion the Church had declared all Theurgy to be anathema, reserving unto itself only one negative aspect of magic -- exorcism -- and that only under the strictest of canonical limitations. M onte Albano had a special dispensation, to be sure -- partly since the monks had at one time been so spectacularly successful in nourishing the coffers of St. Peter's; partly because the knowledge to be won through the Transcendental rituals might sometimes be said to have nourished the soul of the Rock; and, in small part, because under the rarest of circumstances white magic had been known to prolong the life of the body. But these fountains (to shift the image) were now showing every sign of running dry. Hence the dispensation might be withdrawn at any time -- thus closing out the last sanctuary of white magic. IF That would leavethe field to the black magicians. There were no black sanctuaries, except for the Parisian Brothers of the Left-Hand Way, who were romantics of the school of Eliphas Levi and were more to be pitied for folly then condemned for evil. But of solitary black sorcerers there was still a disconcerting number -- though even one would be far too many. Which brought Fr. Domenico directly back to the problem of the letter. He sighed, turned away from his lectrum and padded off -- the brothers of Monte Albano were discalced -- toward the office of the Director, letter in hand. Father Umberto was in (of course he was always physically in, like all the rest of them, since the Mount could not be left, once entered, except by the laity and they only by muleback), and Fr.Domenico got to the point directly. "I've had another impassioned screed from our witch-smeller," he said. "I am beginning to consider, reluctantly,that the matter is at least as serious as he's been saying all along." "You mean the matter of Theron Ware, I presume." "Yes, of course. That American gun-maker we saw went directly from the Mount to Ware, as seemed all too likely even at the time. Father Uccello says that there's now every sign of another series of sendings being prepared in Positano." "I wish you could avoid these alliterations. They make it difficult to discover what you're talking about. I often feel that a lapse into alliteration or other grammatical trick is a sure sign that the speaker isn't himself quite sure of what he means to say and is trying to blind me to the fact. Never mind. As for the demonolater Ware, Ve are in no position to interfere with him, whatever he's preparing." "The style is Father Uccello's. Anyhow, he insists that we must interfere. He has been practicing divination -- so you can see how seriously he takes this, the old purist of Ware and Baines presages some -- and he says that his principal, whom he takes great pains not to identify, told him that the meeting thing truly monstrous for the world at large. According to his information, all Hell has been waiting for this meeting since the two of diem were bom." "I suppose he's sure his principal wasn't in a fact a demon and didn't slip a lie past him, or at least one of their usual brags? As you've just indirectly pointed out, Father Uccello is way out of practice." F ather Domenico spread his hands. "Of course I can't answer that. Though if you wish, Father, I'll try to summon Whatever it was myself, and put the problem to It. But you know how good the chances are that I'll get the wrong one -- and how hard it is to ask the right question. The great Governors seem to have no time sense as we understand the term. And as for demons, well, even when compelled they often really don't seem to know what's going on outside their own jurisdictions." "Quite so," said the Director, who had not himself practiced in many years. He had been greatly .talented once, but the loss of gifted experimenters to administrative posts was the curse of all research organizations. "I think it best that you don't jeopardize your own usefulness, and your own soul of course, in calling up some spirit you can't name. Father Uccello in turn ought to know that there's nothing we can do about Ware. Or does he have some proposal?" "He wants us," Fr. Domenico said in a slightly shaky voice, "to impose an observer on Ware. To send one directly to Positano, someone who'll stick to Ware until we know what the deed is going to be. We're just barely empowered to do this -- whereas of course Father Uccello can't. The question is, do we want to?" "Hmm, hmm," the Director said. "Obviously not. That would bankrupt us -- oh, not financially, of course, though it would be difficult enough. But we couldn't afford to send a novice. Or indeed anyone less than the best we have. And after the good Lord only knows how many months in that infernal atmosphere... " The sentence trailed off, as the Director's sentences often did, but Father Domenico no longer had any difficulty in completing them. Obviously the Mount could not afford to have even one of its best operators incapacitated -- the word, in fact, was "contaminated" -- by prolonged contact with the person and effects of Theron Ware. Similarly, Father Domenico was reasonably certain that the Director would in fact send somebody to Positaao. Otherwise he would not have mounted the obvious objections, but simply dismissed the proposal. For all their usual amusement with Father Uccello, both men knew that there were occasions when one had to take him with the utmost seriousness and that this was one of them. "Nevertheless the matter will need to be explored," the Director resumed after a moment, fingering his beads. "I had better give Ware the usual formal notification. We're not obligated to follow up on it, but  "Quite," Fr. Domenico said. He put the letter into his scrip and arose. "I'll hear from you, then, when a reply's been received from Ware. I'm glad you agree that the matter is serious." After another exchange of formalities, he left, head bowed. He also knew well enough whom the Director would send, without any intervention of false modesty to cloud the issue; and he was well aware that he was terrified. He went directly to his conjuring room, a cluttered tower chamber which no one else could use -- for magic is intensely sensitive to the personality of the operator -- and still faintly redolent of a scent a little like oil of lavender, a trace of his last use of the room. Mansit odor, posses scire duisse deam, he thought, not for the first time; but he had no intention of summoning any Presence now. Instead, he crossed to the chased casket which IF contained his # copy -- the second edition, but not much corrupted -- of the Enchiridion of ers and other devices "effectual against all the perils to which every sort and condition of men may be made subject on land, on water, from open and secret enemies, from the bitter bites of wild and rabid beasts, from poisons, from fire, from tempests." For greatest effectiveness he was instructed to carry the book on his person, but he had seldom judged himself to be in sufficient peril to risk so rare and valuable an object. In any event he did always read at least one page daily, chiefly the In principio, a version of the first chapter of the gospel according to St. John. Now he took the book out and opened it to the Seven Mysterious Orisons, the only section of the work -- without prejudice to the efficacy of the rest of it -- which probably had indeed proceeded from the hand of the Pope of Charlemagne. Kneeling to face the east. Fr. Domenico, without looking at the page, began the prayer appropriate for Thursday, at the utterance of which, perhaps by no coincidence, it is said that "the demons flee away." IV C onsiderable business awaited Baines in Rome, all the more pressing because Jack Ginsberg was still out of town. Baines made no special effort to hunt down Jack's report on what the government metallurgist had said about the golden tears amid the mass of other papers. For the time being, at least, Baines regarded the report as personal correspondence, and he had a standing rule never even to open personal letters during office hours, whether he was actually in an office or, as now, working out of a hotel room. Nevertheless, the report came to the surface the second day that he was back to work; and since he also made it a rule never to lose time to the distractions of an unsatisfied curiosity if an easy remedy was to hand, he read it. The tears on the handkerchief were indeed #-karat gold; worth about eleven cents, taken together, on the current market, but to Baines representing an enormous investment (or, looked at another way, a potential investment in enormity.) He put it aside with satisfaction and promptly forgot about it. Or very nearly. Investments in enormity were his stock in trade, though of late, he thought again with cold anger, they had been paying less and less -- hence his interest in Ware, which the other directors of Consolidated Warfare Service would have considered simple insanity. But after all, if the business was no longer satisfying, it was only natural to seek analogous satisfactions somewhere else. An insane man, in Baines' view, would be one who tried to substitute some pleasure -- women, philanthropy, art collecting, golf -- which offered no cognate satisfaction at all. Baines was ardent about his trade, which was destruction. Golf could no more have sublimated that passion than it could have diluted that of a painter or a kcher.  The current fact, which had to be faced and dealt with, was that nuclear weapons had almost totally spoiled the munitions business. Oh, there was still a thriving trade to be drummed up selling small arms to a few small new nations -- small arms being defined arbitrarily as anything up to the size of a submarine. Hydrogen fusion and the ballistic missile made the really major achievements of the art, the lubrication of the twenty-year cycle of world wars, entirely too obliterative and self-defeating. These days, Baines kind of diplomacy consisted dhiefly in the fanning of brush-fires and civil wars. Even this was a delicate business. The nationalism game was increasingly an exceedingly confused affair, in which one could never be quite sure whether some emergent African state, with a population about the size of Maplewood, N.J., would not turn out to be of absorbing interest to one or more of the nuclear powers. (Some day, of course, they would all be nuclear powers, and then the art would become as formalized and minor as flowerarranging.) The very delicacy of this kind of operation had its satisfactions, in a way, and Baines was good at it. In addition, Consolidated Warfare Service had several thousand manyears of accumulated experience at this sort of thing upon which he could call. One of the CW's chiefest specialists was in Rome with him IF now: Dr. Adolph Hess, famous as the designer of (that peculiar allpurpose vehicle called the Hessicopter, but of interest in the present negotiations instead as the inventor of something nobody was supposed to have heard of: the land torpedo, a rapidly burrowing device which might show up, commendably anonymous, under any installation within two hundred miles of its launching tunnel, geology permitting. Baines had guessed that it might be especially attractive to at least one of the combatants in the Yemeni insurrection. He had proven to be so right that he was now trying hard not to have to dicker with all four of them. This was all the more difficult because, although the two putative Yemeni factions accounted for very little, Nasser was nearly as shrewd as Baines was, and Faisal inarguably a good deal shrewder. N evertheless, Baines was not essentially a miniaturist, and he was well aware of it. He had recognized the transformation impending in the trade early on, in fact with the publication in # by the U.S. Government Printing Office of a volume titled The Effects of Atomic Weapons, and as soon as possible had engaged the services of a private firm called the Mamaroneck Research Institute. This was essentially a brainstorming organization, started by an alumnus of cialized in imagining possible political and military confrontations and their possible outcomes, some of them so outre as to require the subcontracting of free-lance sciencefiction writers. From the files of Mamaroneck materials for its computers, some of which material would have considerably shaken the governments who thought they were sitting on it. In return, Mamaroneck fed Baines long, neatly lettered and Xeroxed reports bearing such titles as "Shortand Long-Term Probabilities Consequent to an Israeli Blockade of the Faeroe Islands." Baines winnowed out the most obviously absurd of these, but with a care which was the very opposite of conservatism, for some of the strangest proposals could turn out upon second look to be not absurd at all. Those which offered the best combination of surface absurdity with hidden plausibility, he set out to translate into real situations. Hence there was really nothing illogical or even out of character in his interest in Theron Ware, for Baines, too, practiced what was literally an occult art in which the man on the street didn't believe. The buzzer sounded twice; Ginsberg was back. Baines returned the signal and the door swung open. "Rogan's dead," Jack said without preamble. "That was fast. I thought it was going to take Ware a week after he got back from the States." "It's been a week," Jack reminded him. "Hmm? So it has. Waiting around for these Ayrabs to get off the dime is hard on the time sense. Well, well. Details?" "Only what's come over the Reuters ticker, so far. Started as pneumonia, ended as cor pulmonale -- heart failure from too much coughing. It appears that he had a small mitral murmur for years. Only the family knew about, and his physicians assured them that it wasn't dangerous if he didn't try to run a four-minute mile or something like that. Now the guessing is that the last campaign put a strain on it, and the pneumonia did the rest." "Very clean," Baines said. He thought about the matter for a while. He had borne the late governor of California no ill will. He had never met the man, nor had any business conflicts with him and in fact had rather admired his brand of medium-right-wing politics, which had been of the articulate but inoffensive sort expectable of an exaccount executive for a San Francisco advertising agency specializing in the touting of cold breakfast cereals. Indeed, Baines recalled suddenly from the file biography, Rogan had been a fraternity brother of his. Nevertheless he was pleased. Ware had done the job -- Baines was not in the smallest doubt that Ware should have the credit -- with great nicety. After one more such trial run, simply to rule out all possibility of coincidence, he should be readyto tackle something larger; possibly, the biggest job of them all. Baines wondered how it had been done. Was it possible that a demon could appear to a victim in the form of a pneumococcus? If so, what about the problem of reproduction? Well, there had been the appearances all over medieval Europe of fragments of the True Cross, in numbers quantitatively sufficient to stock a large lumberyard. Contemporary clerical apologists had called that Miraculous Multiplication, which had aways seemed to Baines to be a classic example of rationalizing away the obvious; but since magic was real, maybe Miraculous Multiplication was, too. These, however, were merely details of technique, in which he made a practice of taking no interest. That kind of thing was for hirelings. Still, it wouldn't hurt to have somebody in the organization who did know something about the technicalities. It was often dangerous to depend solely on outside experts. U TV Take out a check for Ware," #VI he told Jack. "From my personal account. Call it a consultation fee -- medical, preferably. When you send it to him, set up a date for another visit -- let's see -- as soon as I get back from Riyadh. I'll take up all this other business with you in about half an hour. Send Hess in, but wait outside." Jack nodded and left. A moment later, Hess entered silently. He was a tall, bony man with a slight pod, bushy eyebrows, a bald spot in the back, pepper-and-salt hair and a narrow jaw which made his face look nearly triangular. "Any interest in sorcery, Adolph? Personal, I mean?" "Sorcery? I know something about it. For all the nonsense inIF volved, it was highly important in the history of science, particularly the alchemical side, and the astrological." "I'm not interested in either of those. I'm talking of black magic. "Then, no, I don't know much about it," Hess said. "Well, you're about to learn. We're going to visit an authentic sorcerer in about two weeks. I want you to study his methods." "Are you pulling my leg?" Hess said. "No, you never do that. Are we going into the business of exposing charlatans, then? I'm not sure I'm the best man for that, Baines. A professional stage magician -- a Houdini type -- would be more apt to catch a faker than I." "No, that's not the issue at all. I'm going to ask this man to do some work for me, in his own line, and I need a close observer to see what he does -- not to see through it, but to form an accurate impression of the procedures, in case something should go sour with the relationship later on." "But -- well, if you say so, Baines. It does seem rather a waste of time." "Not to me," Baines said. "While you're waiting to talk to the Saudis with me, read up on the subject. By the end of a year, I want you to know as much about the subject as an expert. The man hims elf told me that that's possible even for me, so it shouldn't tax you any." "It's not likely to tax my brains much," Hess said drily, "but it may be a considerable tax on by patience. However, you're the boss." "Right. Get on it." Hess nodded distantly to Jack as he went out The two men did not like each other much, in pant, Baines sometimes thought, because in some ways they were much alike. When the door had closed behind the scientist, Jack produced from his pocket the waxed-paper envelope which had contained, and obviously still contained, the handkerchief bearing the two transmuted tears. "I don't need that," Baines said. "I've got your report. Throw that thing away; I don't want anybody asking what it means." "I will," Jack said. "But first, you'll remember that Ware said that the demon would leave you after two days." "Sure. Why?" "Look at this." Jack took out the handkerchief and spread it on Baines' blotter. On the Irish linen, where the golden tears had been, were now two dull, inarguable smears of lead. V B y some untraceable miscalculation, Baines' party arrived in Riyadh precisely at the beginning of Ramadan, during which the Arabs fasted all day and were consequently in too short a temper to do business with, which was followed, after nine solid days, by a three-day feast during which they' were too stuperous to do business with. Once negotiations were properly opened, however, they took no more than the two weeks Baines anticipated. Since the Moslem calendar is lunar, Ramadan is a moveable festival, which this year fell close to Christmas. Baines half suspected that Theron Ware would refuse to see him in so inauspicious a season for servants of Satan, but Ware made no objection, remarking only (by post), "December #th is a celebration of great antiquity." Hess, who had been reading dutifully, interpreted Ware to mean that Christ had not actually been born on that date -- "though in this universe of discourse I can't see what difference that makes," he said. "If the word 'superstition' has any of its old meaning left at all by now, it means that the sign has come to replace the thing. Or in other words, that facts come to mean what we say they mean." "Call it an observer effect," Baines suggested, not entirely joking. He was not disposed to argue the point with either of them. Ware would see him, that's what counted. But if the season was no apparent inconvenience to Ware, it was a considerable one to Fr. Domenico, who at first flatly refused to celebrate it in the very maw of Hell. He was pressed at length and from both sides by the Director and Fr. Ucello. Mustering all his humility, obedience and resignation -- his courage seemed to have evaporated -- he trudged forth from the monastery, dispensed for sandals and mounted swinging from his neck under his cassock in a new leather bag, and a selection of his thaumaturgic tools, newly exorcised, asperged, fumigated and wrapped in silken cloths, in a satchel balanced carefully on the mule's neck. It was a hushed leavetaking -- all the more so in its lack of any formalities or even witnesses, for only the Director knew why he was going, and he had been restrained with difficulty from bruiting it about that Fr. Domenico had been expelled, to make a cover-story. T he practical effect of both delays was that Fr. Domenico and Baines' party arrived at Ware's palazzo on the same day, in the midst of the only snowstorm Positano had seen in seven years. As a spiritual courtesy -- for protocol was allimportant in such matters, otherwise neither monk nor sorcerer would have dared to confront the other -- Fr. Domenico was received first, briefly but punctiliously; but as a client, Baines (and his crew, in descending order) got the best quarters. As was customary in southern Italy at this time, three masked kings came to the gate of the palazzo to bring and ask presents for the children and the Child; but there were no children there, and the mummers were turned away, baffled and resentful (for the rich American, who was said to be writing a book about the frescoes of Pompeii, had previously shown himself openhanded), but addly grateful too; it was a cold night, and the lights in the palazzo were of a grim and distant color. Then the gates closed. The principals had gathered and were in their places; and the stage was set. IF IF  Short Star The Trouble With Vegans Vegans? All the galaxy knows they're lovable rogues -- very lovable , and indubitable rogues! 'T'o start with, Vegans are alspecification which could cater to A together the wrong shape. We the Vegans' almost liquid flowing had built the Autofrisk on lines that contours. would enable it to fit every one of Which might not have mattered, the numerous life-forms of the GalExcept that they were compulsive axy. We thought. The trouble with smugglers. Vegans is that they're constructed They did it when it wasn't even back to front, inside out, upside particularly useful, let alone necesdown, take away the number you sary. It was something in their past first thought of, with everything history which accounted for this; possibly wrong that could possibly they had built their vast empire of be wrong. Imagine the most unliketrade and commerce through good ly and improbable shape you can, old-fashioned crooked methods, and and that's a Vegan. The first time the habit had now become long inan Autofrisk was ever tried on one herent. At first most members of the had turned out to be acutely emGalactic Federation had turned a barrassing to the commander of the blind eye. Vegans were friendly, Vegan merchant-cruiser, and as a charming, the most likeable of all result Terran-Vegan relations for the races of the Galaxy, you just some time were extremely strained couldn't even remotely reprimand -- not to mention a certain vitally them. But then some contraband important part of the commander's goods slipped skillfully into the majanatomy. And although many had or spaceport of Wlaxtac bad resultsdnce tried to perfect one, there was ed in every single inhabitant of that no machine of any size, shape or system breaking out in a rash of green spots. Luckily that was not serious, but the point was that it could have been. One of the biggest single dangers in the galaxy was that some bacteria considered minor and unimportant in one system should possibly prove dangerous or even deadly in another. Hence the demand by the Praesidium for tighter customs regulations on every planet. Hence the Autofrisk here in Newyorkport. And then dammit the Vegans didn't fit. They could hide any number of things in kangaroo-like pouches scattered haphazardly about their persons, and short of starting a diplomatic incident we could not even eager, to be searched -- that added to the fun of the game for them -- but it was a waste of time and effort. And temper. Since the Sterilobacteria Room in every spaceport got rid of the danger of infection from goods actually carried on the person, this state of affairs was accepted with rueful equanimity by most customs officers. The loss of revenue from the goods on a Vegan's person you might as well accept. A Vegan ship was another matter altogether. So here I was, on a bright May morning which was far too good for a situation like this, standing in the control room as the Vegan merchantman was talked down. Perhaps I should explain that I am the Chief Customs Officer of the Newyorkport Spacecenter. At least, I was. The reason I'm not to this day is entirely the fault of that particular merchantman, and of her captain, Llant'Gomu Gra-Oud, a man whose sheer animal cunning would hav made Machiavelli creep off in shame to go check up on his textbooks. Customs officers throughout the galaxy manage to maintain a pretty good average rate of about eighty to eighty-five per cent success in preventing Vegan smuggling, so it needn't necessarily have been too shameful for me if Commander Llant'Gomu had merely outwitted me. What cost me my pride as well as my job was the way he did it. And the results. A s soon as the ship had docked and been radiation-checked I moved to make an immediate inspection. I had no reason to suspect anything out of the usual, allowing for the fact that Vegans seldom do anything that isn't out of the usual, but I was determined to make a good impression on Lt. Malo Allallu, a young Martian who had just passed out of college and was starting on a career in Customs and Excise. Perhaps if I had had someone more experienced with me the ghastly debacle that followed need not have happened, but I can hardly blame Allallu. If I myself didn't fathom the incredible depths of Llant'Gomu's criminally cunning mind, I can hardly complain at Allallu if he didn't either. I entered the airlock. Since the Vegan atmosphere was the same as ours, all the doors of the ship were fully open, and the crew were standing idly around in small groups enjoying the taste of fresh air after so many months of the canned stuff spaceside. They grinned and waved as I came in, if a foot-long elongation of one of their tongues and the elevation of four tentacles in a complicated ancestral pattern can be called a grin and a wave. That's what it added up to, anyway. You can't help liking Vegans, whatever thenfaults, they're such a cheerful bunch. Cheerful, happy, and courageous. And crooks, through and through. I strode on to the commander's cabin, with Allallu close behind me. Iiant'Gomu rose as I came in and advanced towards me. "My friend," he boomed with easy informality, "I and my fathers greet you and yours." It was a conventional form of greeting on his home planet, the third in the Vegan system, as far as I knew. Luckily he spoke fluent Terran. Most Vegans did, since their own language was the most complicated in the Galaxy, full of clicks, gurgles and retching sounds that come over rather like a mixture of Tovringian Southern, Ancient Terran Zulu, and Li Husat. And though, despite their double tongue, then can pronounce Terran Universal, they're all totally unable to master Galactica. "I and mine thank your fathers," I replied. He laughed boisterously. "It always sounds wrong somehow coming from Terrans," he commented. "Can I offer you a drink? I have some exquisite vintage Vungtakha Blue in the hold." "Not at the moment, thanks," I said. "Er, have you anything to declare?" That must be one of the most stupid things I ever said. Llant'Gornu did the Vegan equivalent of a shrug and a crooked smile. "Who, me?" he said. Vegans will never lie outright. That's part of the reason why they're so astonishingly popular considering everything. They will never say a thing is so if it is not so. However, with the slightest hesitation they will talk around the point, change the subject, twist your words, or, if pushed right into a corner, take refuge in a bland silence. But they will never lie. 'Yes, Commander, you. Are you carrying any contraband?" "I rather think that depends on your definition of contraband." "I define contraband as something which should be declared before entering a port." "Why?" "Why? Because there might be revenue to pay on it." "Why?" "My dear commander, you know as well as I do what contraband is. Must we go on beating about the bush like this? Are you carrying any?" "You'll have to be more clear. Do you mean am I personally carrying any, or is the ship carrying any, or what?" "Either of those possibilities." I was growing a trifle harrassed. "Which one?" "Are youV "Am I what?" "Carrying any contraband?" He raised his arms, all of them. "I'm not actually carrying anything," he informed me cheerfully. I rose to my feet. This time I was going to nail them. I knew damn well I was a relatively good customs officer, and I just couldn't let the commander get away with it without a fight. "Lt. Allallu!" "Sir?" "I want every available customs officer on the base to assemble here immediately. I'm going to search this ship from stem to stem, then back again, then back again if need be, and we're going to find whatever contraband they're carrying, every last ounce of it." "Every man?" said Allallu in some surprise. "Yes!" I bellowed. "Every single one that isn't sick, dead or on leave must be here on the double. On the treble if they have to. I expect them here on this ship's Flag Deck within fifteen minutes. Jump to it!" H e jumped. In actual fact he got them there in ten. He's a good man, Allallu. One day he might even make a Chief Officer -- providing he doesn't act like me, that is. As soon as the men were assembled -- there were twenty-two of them, if I remember rightly -- I told them what I had told Allallu. The whole ship was to be combed thoroughly, and any other ships that might land and want Customs clearance in the meantime would just damn well have to wait. Llanf'Gomu watched all this with evident amusement. This had developed into a battle of wills as well as wits between him and me, and we both knew it. And I was determined he was not going to win. And he wa determined he was. And he was a Vegan, remember. The first thing I did was order all the exits watched. I'd heard of a case on Betelgeuse where a rather green Customs officer had ordered a minute search of a Vegan cruiser as I was doing now, but had forgotten in his enthusiasm to watch the doors. As a result, while his men were laboriously working their way through the ship, the Vegans were casually wandering right out of the main exits in broad daylight carrying bundles of contraband under their arms. This was not going to happen with me. I gave Allallu his orders, then remained on the flag deck as the search was carried out. They started on the bridge, all the men together, and combed it so thoroughly that a flea could not have escaped. No fleas. No contraband. The flight deck the same. And the crew quarters. And the engine room. And so on and so forth. Right down to the drive tubes. All clean as a whistle. It took them three hours to find this out. I was sweating. "You see?" remarked Llant'Gomu casually from a doorway. "They didn't find anything." "No," I agreed. 'They didn't." I felt like grinding my teeth until they came out in the form of a fine white powder. "Allallu, are you sure there's nothing here?" "Certain, sir. These cruisers aren't that large, and we've examined every nut and bolt. Perhaps there is no contraband?" IF "On a Vegan merchantman? You must be joking!" Commander Llant'Gomu looked solicitous. "You need a drink," he said. "Here." "Thanks." I did need a drink. It was cool and delicious. And blue. I choked. "You found nothing?" I said to Allallu. "No, sir." "Then what about this? A consignment of Vungtakha Blue, which the commander was even foolish enough to mention personally. Where is that?" He looked blank. "I'm afraid I don't "Where was the crew while your search was going on?" "Going about their duties, sir. At least, I assumed so." "Never assume anything with Vegans. Rule One of the Customs official. I suppose they were carrying various things?" "I didn't see, but... I sighed. It was Betelgeuse all over again. Thank God I'd put men n the doors. "Lieutenant," I said, 'Vhile you've been searching, the crew have been merrily going around rearranging everything. You've been passing contraband every time you passed a member of the crew." He looked suitably dumbfounded, as well he might. "We will now search again, even more thoroughly. And this time the crew -- that includes you, Commander, if you would -- head the search." So we did it again. This time it took us five and a half hours. It was now nearly nine hours since I had first come aboard. In that time two merchant cruisers had landed from Lunaport, both perfectly routine local flights, plus one stellar from Sirius. All of these would have been dealt with quickly and easily if I hadn't commandeered every available Customs officer in the port. Already their captains were filing perfectly justified complaints. All I had to show for all this was a few dozen crates of the Vungtakha Blue. To me this was downright suspicious. As the lieutenant had said, these ships weren't all that large, I had searched everywhere and there was no more contraband aboard. But that wine was pretty small pickings for a Vegan ship. The few times that a search such as this was ordered on a Vegan ship normally turned up a veritable Aladdin's cave of dutiable goodies. However, I was forced to admit defeat. Commander Llant'Gornu, as I had expected, was courtesy itself when I allowed him and his crew to disembark, having apologized for keeping them cooped up for so long. He paid the duty on the Vungtakha without a murmur, and offered me one of his own personal bottles as a gift. You just can't help liking Vegans. I hurriedly inspected and passed the Sirian, allowing someone else to deal with the two lunar flights, and got back to the control room an hour or so later. The first thing I did was leaf through the messages which had come in while I was occupied. They all seemed relatively uninteresting -- except one. As I read it the skin of my back slowly crawled up and started biting the hack of my neck: To: Chief Officer, Customs, RALok. From: Ditto. Bordash. "Why wasn't I shown this?" I roared at the communications officer. "You'd said you didn't wish to be disturbed, sir," he answered, surprised. "If any ship of that name had attempted a landing I would have informed you, naturally." I suddenly felt rather ill. I sat down. This message had arrived just ten minutes after I had left the control room earlier, and even then my opposite number on Alpha Centauri had left it just that little too late.  Probably too worried about his newly forming rash of green spots. Baccillus Wlaxtaccus spreads too fast for comfort. I looked at the bottle of wine handed me by Llant'Gomu with a weary smile. Go mate with a Veflusian hedgehog. "Is there anything wrong, sir?" asked the communications officer. "Oh no," I said. "Nothing at all. Does anyone here know any Vegan at all, by any chance?" They all shook their heads. "I thought no one could speak Vegan?" said Allallu. "No one can carry on a conversation," I replied. "But some people do know a little, names of ships for instance. Tell me, Lieutenant, will you read to me the name of Commander Llant'Gornu's ship. You can make it out from here. It's written in Galactical characters as well as Vegan." Still puzzled, Allallu picked up the binoculars and stared across the spaceport. "Takka'Aq Dorg," he said after a moment. "Right. Now, Lt. Allallu, am I or am I not the Chief Customs Officer here at Newyorkport?" He frowned. "You are, sir." "And did I or did I not, on my authority alone, order every single man here to search that Vegan ship, Takka'Aq Dorg , with me?" "You did, sir." "And were there or were there not three ships out there fuming because no one dealt with them for hours?" "Yes, sir." "And what contraband did we find to show for this, for having held up a whole spaceport for nine hours?" "A dozen crates of wine, sir." "A dozen crates of wine. LieutenIF ant, do you know what the translation of TakkafAq Dorg is?" "No, sir." "It's Vegan for Star of Hope . That is the merchantman in the signal. They didn't put the Vegan name when they sent the message at Centauri, my communications man doesn't know Vegan, he can't be expected to, and I had said no messages unless vital," Allallu was beginning to realize the truth. "That ship, Lieutenant, not just the crew, or the contraband, or the legal cargo, but the whole ship, is infected with little green spots! No wonder we couldn't find any contraband." I was nearly shouting now. "The whole damn thing is contraband! Llant'Gomu smuggled in a spaceship!" W hich was why the whole population of Terra, with the exception of one civil servant in Buenos Aires who appeared immune, went down with a rash of green spots. Which was why I lost my job. Which is why I'm now Chief Officer on the Vegan merchantman Takka f Aq Dorg, or Star of Hope if you wish, under the command of Commodore Llant'Gomu Gra-Oud. Well, I mean, somehow you just can't harbor grudges against Vegans.  by PHi Bride Nihet And one of science fiction's Grand Old Masters returns with Invader s in your neighborhood won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! The umpteenth corollary of Finagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." nur irre owner s name imprii All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, if any. No. CM-I# by Cullen Rapp No. GX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! Order from Galaxy #I Hudson street. New York # , N. Y. Vol. #, Ho # Frecerjfc Poh, Editor Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judydynn Beniamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by C. C. MacApp by Perry A. Chapdelaine by J. G. Ballard by Philip Jos# Farmer by Harl Vincent by James Blish by Robert Silverberg by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF published monthly hy Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn,' President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #(XL#. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at addlttonal mailing offices. Cop # Tiight by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, Indiuding translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons Is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y, # IF  Editorial T he other day we attended a conference in Boston on space, spacecraft and the Grand Desiign -- that is, the overall purpose that should be, and probably is, behind all space efforts, namdy to spread the human race out beyond our own atmosphere into other worlds circling our own sun -- or other suns. You know. The kind of thing we've been writing about in magazines like this for nearly half a century. One of these months we'll tell you more about some of the things that we heard about there in regard to the space program, but one of the most interesting lectures in the three-day conference, for our money, turned out to be that by our old friend R. C. W. Ettinger, who longtime readers will recall as the author of The Prospect of Immortality the best-selling book (first publish in extract form in our late companion magazine, Worlds of Tomorrow) whioh proposed immortality through freezing. Ettinger's talk was not primarily about space travel. In fact, it was not even primarily about freezing -- although, of course, he touched on both subjects, pointing out that one way around the limiting velocity of light was to freeze the crews of interstellar spaceships, thus making it possible for them to travel a few centuries if necessary and still be in reasonably good operating condition on landing. What it was about, in essence, was nothing less than what life is all about, and why we ought to be doing things that we're probably doing anyway. S uppose there was a dog (said Ettiniger, as close as we can paraphrase an extemporaneous talk from memory) and someone gave him the job of building a bridge across the Mississippi River. He might have all the help he could summon Uj in the form of a thousand packs bf a will; but there would still be no hope that he could ever get the bridge built. Lacking hands, he could not build simple tools. Lacking sufficient intelligence, he could not invent more complicated ones. He could not produce strong enough materials, and he could not hoist them into place if he had them; because building a bridge across the Mississippi River is simply not a job for a dog. I take it as laxiomatic (Ettinger went on) that we can define the purpose of life as discovering what the purpose of life is. It may be that we human beings, shaped as we are, mortal as we are, limited in our capacities as we are, are simply not up to the job of discovering that purpose. But we have at least the hope that we can make ourselves wiser, increase our capacities, lengthen our lifespan. Perhaps discovering the imrpose of life is not a job for a man... but a job that men can do is to reshape themselves into something that can achieve it. N ow, this is not the sort of argument (that one expects to hear in the middle of three days otherwise mostly devoted to stellar signatures and optimization of multiple Harry Harrison. When you've got a movie studio, a script for a Viking epic, a star with the broadest measurements in Hollywood, and a time machine, what could be simpler than taking the whole crew back a thousand years to shoot the picture against a really authentic background? Well, for one thing, the return trip could be simpler. But it couldn't be funnier. # puinniii Keith Laumer and Gordon R. Dickson. At age #, Captain Henry wants to retire. He's opened up so many planets and taken so many rejuvenation treatments that he's earned a rest. But powerful Senator Bartholomew won't let him, not with a newly discovered planet to be staked out. So Henry goes, taking Bartholomew's priggish son with him, thereby setting the space stage for a most bizarre "conflict of generations." # missions by use of permissive progress-sequences, but it seemed to us then and still seemed to us that Robert Ettinger has opened a rather large can of worms. One of the troubles with writing science fiction about the reasonably far future is that, if we are fair to our subject, we find ourselves writingi about characters who are no loniger entirely human. Their social customs differ from those of #. Their motives are not the same as ours; if they have hang-ups, they are not our hang-ups, if they are despondent or alienated, it is not for the reasons that impair our lives today. But maybe, thinking along Ettinger's lines, we can find a little more in common with those nextevolution descendants of ours than has heretofore been possible. They may be taller than we are, or balder, or healthier; and surelythey will be wiser, perhaps in ways that we cannot understand. But if Ettinger is right and they are some part of some Grand Design, perhaps we can recognize in them that it is our Grand Design they are working on. And perhaps what Ettinger said is only another way of saying what H. G. Weills said more than half a century ago: "We have suffered like animals long enough; it is time we began to suffer like men."  #I  T o change the subject, our conscience requires us to admit something. Now that you are (we should confess to you that when we first read it, and enjoyed it enormously, we were much perplexed about whether you would like it as well -- because it is not, we admit, really a science-fiction story at all. It should by all rights appear in a magazine like Unknown or Beyond -- if they still existed. Unfortunately, they don't; and so stories like this don't have a proper home in any magazine being published today. We would like to give them such a home from time to time. What do you think? Is an occasional fantasy a pleasant change now and then? Or should we stick to more orthodox science fiction? Hue and Cry will be waiting to hear your answers... And if, while we think of it, your interest in sorcery has been spurred by BMsh's novel and you want to read more about it, you can hardly do better than a book we just finiied reading: Spirits, Stars and Spells, by L. Sprague and Catherine C. de Gamp. It's not an exiose, but it does have some hard-headed things to say about the fallacies of most necromantic accounts -- and may be a very necessary countermeasure after you've read Faust Aleph-Null! -- The Editor Science Fiction Stories from The Planet EarthI  For the first time in this country, your chance to read a sampling of new science fiction from all over the world -- plus articles and features about the wondrous' world of sf books and stories as seen by correspondents In many countries. Don't miss the first Issue -- coming sooni IF  Novelette Something strange was in orbit, too small to see, too powerful to escape -- and it had caught them! T hat sector of the galaxy was Treaty territory -- that is, open and unpoliced -- so the Terran freighter bad every right to be there. Nevertheless, she was a long way from home; and, mankind being just fledged in space, with a relatively weak iSfpace Force, it was no wonder freighter had run into trouble. "Taintless" Wend, who was Earthborn but could no longer claim citizenship, sat watching the freighter's image swell on the main viewscreen of the Kyshan ship aboard which he was either guest or prisoner. He saw no signs of damage, so the freighter must have been taken by subterfuge rather than assault. Junnabl -- his present host -- was a versatile pirate. Wend turned to the Kyshan. '"Is this all you wanted me for? You could navigate her yourself. I know you read English as well as you speak it." Junnabl grinned. That consisted of curling his upper lip (pastygreen like the rest of his skin) and drooping the comers of his mouth, showing several dozen closeacked sharp teeth, while his amber eyes changed not one whit. "Iss true spend effort to learn. Now looks not waste. Have splendid job for you. See, soon." Wend shrugged. They had him over a barrel. He shouldn't have holed up so close to Kyshan territory. He heard a shuttleboat coupling to the aft lock, to take them over to the freighter. TT an hour later, he turned JoLfrom the captured ship's control console and faced Junnabl. "I woi play stupid. There's nothing abo tibds ieter that wouldn't pass lor ordinary commercial ship buti she's too shipape, too and # good one, manned her, I would guess. Where are they now?" fast. Iss jpleasure hire smart man. Junnabl showed his teeth again. "Are in safe keeping. You guess fast. Iss pleasure hire smart man. Wend said, "I didn't leave it under the most cordial circumstances. Still, Earth was my birthplace." The Kyshan laced his longerthan-. human fingers before his thick chest. "Am not fool enough to ask big treason. Are sizes of treason, yes? This ship little sneak-play by hidden. I want. When get, crew go free." Like hell. Wend thought. They're undoubtedly dead. He kept his face impassive and waited. Junnabl flicked a long palidgreen finger at a collar-radio and said for the latter's benefit, in Kyshan, "Bring the Terran skipper's uniform and other things." Then he told Wend, in Engl, Were well hidden aboard. Uniform iss now made to fit you. You get idea?" Wend tried not to scowl. "Sure, I get it. An impersonation. Haven't you ever head of fingerprints and descriptions?" Junnabl said placidly, "I hire smart man, expect him fix details. Oh Norp -- you know Norp? -- are sealed orders this ship suppose pick up. You get, I get hidden cache, give you back little yacht I find you in, give you bundle money, shake hands, good-bye. Okay?" Wend couldn't help grinning. He wondered if Junnabl actually expected him to believe that. He said, "I'd have to land on Norp without uniform, first, to look at the setup." Junnabl laced his long fingers again. "Of course. We go there next." n D ressed like some space rousta bout. Wend strolled by the much -- a small concrete building in the local style, on the east side of IP the spaceport, away ifirom town. He could hear the clack of a typewriter inside. Outside the door a human corporal, wearing a bolstered nipter, loitered in the shade of a low, widespreading tree. Four small aircars were parked to one side of the buiness on Norp, which wasn't surprising. A Terran ship was a rarity here. What he had to get from the backwater office was a padlocked dispatch case. There was, it seemed, might call for it. Though the orders Junnabl had found didn't specifically say so. Wend was sure the local C.O. would have photos and fingerprints of all five. The one who'd fallen into Junnabl's hands was a Commander Waldron, which meant nothing to Wend. He didn't think he could risk a direct impersonation, an)Tway. Casually, he strolled toward the busy side of the field; turned between two buildings and stopped, pretending to fiddle with the zipper of his jacket. He was careful not to look at the Norpan who went by a little too hastily. So Junnabl had hired people to watch him. He stepped into the open again and looked for a visiphone booth, choosing one that was exposed on all sides. He didn't want anyone sneaking up and using some listening device. He entered and pulled the door shut. There was a directory-scanner. He deposited a coin and pimched for "Importers"; let the names scroll down across the viewer; stopped the device at "Vassun Garka, Inc., iExotic Foods." It this were the same family... He contributed another coin and waited. A polite Norpan face appeared on the screen. The slit-eyes blinked once. "Apologies, sir. I speak no Terran languages." Wend answered in Kyshan, which he spoke better than Noipan. "Not needful." He held up a plastic card with one of his aliases on it and an orange triangle in the corner. He waited for the clerk's eyes to widen at the implied credit rating, then said, "Secrecy desired. Is there someone familiar with the star called Hane?" The face -- similar to a Kyshan's but swarthier, the two races having diverged a little -- twitched and became impassive. "I have not heard of such a star." Wend nodded politely. "Perhaps a coincidence of names. I had dealings there once with a Loob Garka, also in the import business." The clerk said tonelessly, "If you will wait, I will make inquiries, sir." The face vanished. Minutes passed, then a more mature face appeared on the screen. The eyes glanced at the creditvoucher. "I do not know you, sir, nor do I know Loob Garka. But how may I serve you?" "Perhaps you know me as' 'Taintless' Wend." The face changed just slightly. "Ah." Wend said, "I am followed. I would discuss mutual profit, but I must evade watchers in a way that would not arouse suspicions." The teetli showed in a smile. You flatter me in seeking my arrangements in such a matter. But go, in ten minutes, to the Chief Dispatcher of airtaxis and ask him, loudly enough to he overheard to send you to the Vale of Amethyst Joys. He will, instead, place you with a trustworthy driver who will bring you to the Cradle of Mercies, Where I will meet you. It will be arranged that you are not followed." T he Cradle of Mercies, though it undoubtedly catered to the cruder desires as well as the more delicate ones, was relatively quiet and meticulously clean. The lobby was dimly lit, and scented with something like lavender plus sandalwood. Various curtained portals led off it. From one came a buzz of Norpan voices and a fan of light as a provocatively clad female held the curtain aside for a moment to gaze around the lobby. The attendant who'd instantly approached Wend led him through a: different door, along a dim corridor, and into a small, plain, well lighted room. The Norpan to whom Wend had talked via visiphone sat crosslegged on a thick cushion, across a low table from a similar cushion. The attendant left, closing the door. Wend's host glanced at the bolt on the inside of the door. Wen -- now understanding the courtesy of letting him bolt the door -- did so. He appreciated the cushion, too, which meant his host knew enough about him to know he'd be comfortable on it. A strange Terran would be given a chair. On the low table were two selfwarmed bowls holding, respectively, roasted nuts and what looked like an equivalent of barbecued prawns. A generous decanter was neck-full of an amber liquor. Two tumblers of opalescent crystal waited. Wend seated himself and answered his host's slight bow. The Norpan glanced at the decanter, then, as Wend made the palm-up gesture of assent, poured liquor. Not until each had sipped did he speak. "You honor me. I am Vassun Garka, and Loob Garka is my cousin. How may I serve you?" Wend speared one of the prawns with a small silver skewer. "Mine is the honor. You know, doubtless, that I arrived on a Kyshan corsair." Vassun turned a palm up. "Yes. Junnabl's." Wend continued, "Junnabl has conscripted me for a bit of theft. If the booty is what I suspect, I am not adverse to taking some of it. However, I do not want to share it with Junnabl, nor do I care to rely upon his promises." Vassun looked amused. "You find my own race more reliable?" Wend grinned. "There are Norpan pirates as deadly as Junnabl. But I feel your own family is more likely to let me live. How is Loob, by the way?" The . Norpan chose a roast nut. "Active, and still unhanged. You mentioned his home base. I hope this project of Junnabl's does not lie in that direction?" Wend turned a palm down. "Junnabl has mentioned no direction, and does not yet have , one. Perhaps I IF should not have mentioned Hane." "It does not matter' Vassun said. The clerk is discreet." W end sipped more of the liquor, which was like fortified e. "Well, here's the project." He told about the secret orders. 'What I hope to do is switch dispatch cases. I have a tentative plan that will require certain gadgets I can't buy openly. And I want a small padlock specially made. But mainly, I want help getting free of Junnabl. He has my yacht, but if the booty's what I suspect, I can buy a new yacht." Vassun looked interested. "And you suspect what?" "Well, I happen to know that befeared it mit be drawn into the fighting somewhere out here. There was a secret cache somewhere, in case supplies were cut off. This freighter Junnabl has captured could not haul much in the way of missiles or other heavy weapons. Nor would food and such be worth recovering. synthetic fissionable similar to the one you use. You know how much thats worth per poimd. I judge this freighter could stow and lift five hundred tons. I think there'll be that much, or more." "Ah," Vassun said, reaching for his glass a little quickly. "Yes. And what terms have you in mind?" "I get onenfourth," Wend said. "You get onenfourth. We load the other half aboard the freighter and send her back to Earth.' Vassun blinked. "I did not know you were such a loyal patriot." Wend held a palm down. "Barth wouldn't miss the whole cargo too might feel stung enough to do something. Pass rumors around, if nothing else. If they get half of it back, they'll keep quiet. After all, they won't be anxious to admit trying to recover it." Vassun considered slowly, turning his tumbler in his long fingers. Finally, "You may be right. But if there are other things at the cache? Munitions?" Wend told him, "I'm not interestYou can help yourself. Now, here's how I hope to get the secret orders." Wend outlined his plan briefly and described certain gadgets he needed. "If you'll have those ready, I can pick them up when I land again, in uniform, to pull off the switch. Then, as soon as I know what the orders are. I'll get word to you where you can find us -- Junnabl and me, I mean. I'll devise some way to make myself expendable for that long. I can't plan in detail until I see the orders, which I'll do before I take them to him. Do you follow me?" Vassun considered briefly. "Yes." "Fine, then." Wend got up. "I don't want to be a hasty guest, but Junnabl will be furious that I've dropped out of sight this long. Will you excuse me?" "Of course." Vassun stood up and held out his hand, in the Terran gesture. "One question that has interested me, if you will permit?" "Of course." IF "Why do you have the nickname you do?" "'Taintless?' Oh, it goes back to my court-martial. My defense attorney got carried away and used the word. It was so inapplicable to me, everybody laughed. And it stuck." Vassun smiled. "Ah. Forgive my curiosity." He waited for Wend to unbolt the door. J unnabl did a poor job of hiding his rage. "Wass a very long look, Terranl" Wend tried to look injured. "Well, naturally I did more than stroll by! I made inquiries around to. There's no Night Duty Officer just one enlisted guard. I can handle him, and I've got a plan. I'll need Waldron's dispatch case and his luggage. You'll have to land me in a shuttleboat and stay in orbit, giving a false ship's name so I can say I'm traveling on verbal orders, via available transportation. What I intend to do is switch dispatch cases." A slight muddiness suffused Junnabl's face. "Iss not likely they will be that easy to fool!" Wend told him, "There's a way to manage it. But you'll have to be ready to pick me up fast when I walk out of the place." Ill T he Senior Lieutenant on Norp was eager to talk. "Is something up. Commander? We've got... we've heard rumors, but they're vague. Will the Treaty blow up?" Wend (who was calling himself Shea) grinned at him. "No. You'd have to go out of the Lenj sector to find any real fighting, and we're not involv in any way. All I know is I'm supposed to wait here for a ship and further orders." He set Waldron's dispatch case on the corner of the Lieutenant's desk. "Can you lock this up somewhere while I go look for a hotel?" "Of course. Commander. I'll put it in the safe. If you like, sir, we can phone for hotel reservations." Wend grinned again. "Thanks, but I'd just as soon look around a little. I've built up quite a thirst. I'll send for my luggage." He moved the two bags closer to the wall, started for the front door, then paused. "Will the Night Duty Officer be able to get me that dispatch case? There's a lot of stuff in it Im supposed to be studying." The Lieutenant looked 'guilty. "We don't have a Duty Officer at night, sir." He glanced at the safe in the rear of the office. "I'll leave the combination with the guard. He's reliable." Wend nodded. "Thanks. Maybe I'll see you around town tonight." N orp's orange sun had set when Wend returned to the office, nervous about what lay ahead but glad to have the long afternoon over. The office lights were already on. He wiped his palms on a handkerchief and entered. The guard was sergeant. Category M. P. That wasn't too good. He stood up. "Yes, sir. Commander Shea?" Wend nodded. "They didn't tell me it was so hot here. I hope it cools off at night." "It does, sir, if the breeze is right. Did you find an air-conditioned hotelf ' "Yes, finally." Wend glanced toward the safe. "I left a dispatch case." "Yes, sir. I'll get it." Wend followed the man as casually as he could. He had to be close enough to use the small gas-gun Vassun Garka had gotten him. He put a hand in his pocket, ready to draw the weapon. The M.P. knelt and worked at the safe dial. It seemed a long time before he pulled the door open. Wend took one step nearer. He drew the weapon, aimed it and pressed the stud, clearing his throat to camouflage the faint ihiss. He must hold his own breath now. He saw the faint mist billow out, dispersing quickly. The M.P. had Waldron's dispatch case out now, was about to swing the safe shut. Wend said abruptly, "Sergeant, my luggage..." The kneeling man turned his head. He started to say something, then looked puzzled. "Your..." Wend stepped closer. "What's the matter? You look sick!" The man swayed; put a hand on the floor to steady himself. Belatedly, suspicion flooded his face. He made an awkward move toward his holster; changed his mind and reached to shove at the safe-door. Wend thrust a foot in the way. He had his fist doubled, but the gas was swift. The M.P. toppled, pawed at the floor and lay still. He'd sleep T# for hours, Vassun had promised, and awake with a temporary amnesia. Wend readied into the safe, seized the dispatch dase, tossed Waldron's in, slammed the door and gave the dial a spin, then hurried with the other dispatch case to the desk that held the typewriter. There was a regulation small padlock on the case. He drew from his hip pocket a pair of cutters -- another of Vassun's contributions -- and cut the link. He glanced at the door, then opened the case. H e re-read the meat of the orders: "Proceed to given co-ordpates and make sure there is no pursuit before approaching the planet. At specified latitude and longitude, fly a search pattern, using ship's metaletector to locate the cache. Approximately tenfeet of soil and loose rock must be removed." He studied the description of the planet. A lifeless, uninviting one, and not handy to anywhere. He memorized all figures, then found the office's disposal-slot and thrust into it the orders, the gas-gun, the cut padlock and the cutters. without a local address, found it, added carbon paper and a second sheet, rolled the whole into the typewriter and sat frowning anxiously. He had to make decisions fast. Did he want to tell Garka the true location of the cache? He thought not. The Garkas weren't cutthroats -- not ordinary -- but they were capable of seizing the loot and pondering the agreement later. IP Inspiration came. He glanced at the door and at the inert man near the safe, then, laboriously, with muttered curses, began to type. When he'd finished, the fake orders read, in part, "You will identify yourself before landing, then present these orders to the garrison Commander." The co-ordinates he gave were not those of the cache planet. He hoped -- this was one of his risks -- that they wouldn't be familiar to Junnabl. They were the co-ordinates of the uncatalogued, little known star called Hane. He addressed the envelope to Garka Imports, put a copy of the faked orders in it and went to drop it in the mail-slot. Then he looked hastily around the office to make sure he'd left no evidence. He hurried to the unconscious guard, dragged him to the Duty Desk and arranged him on the floor as if he'd fainted and fallen from his chair. Finally he put the faked orders in the dispatch case and locked that with the special two-key padlock Vassun had gotten made for him. As he stepped from the office with the case under his arm, an airtaxi swooped down for him. J unnabl, a flat key gripped between long thumb and forefinger, looked up from the dispatch case with a scowl. "What iss this?" Wend glanced at the two-key padlock. It's a common security the C.O. on Norp has the second key. I had no chance to find out for sure." Junnabl stared at him coldly for a moment, then, in an angry motion, drew a rupter and blasted the padlock. Wend ducked to avoid splattering metal. The Kyshan jerked the case open and reached greedily for the thin envelope inside. He tore that open, unfolded the orders and began to read, silently but with lip-movement, holding the document so Wend couldn't see it. His face muddied. He darted a look at Wend, then went back to the orders. Wend could tell when the alien reached the end and started through. He could tell when Junnabl began to repeat the space co-ordinates to himself. Suddenly the pirate stiffened. His eyes went wide, then narrowed. The loanee he threw at Wend was half-absent. God, Wend thought, with a sudden knot in his middle. He recognizes those co-ordinates! After a minute Junnabl looked at him again. "I can not pay you off yet." Wend tried to act surprised and angry. "What do you mean? I've done my part of the jobi" The pirate's teeth showed. 'Tss other part of job. And iss something strange. You will come with me. But you will not enter control room during trip." He gestured for a guard. Wend protested a little, but went with the hard-faced crewman. As he left the patrol room, he heard Junnabl placing a ship-to-planet radio call. The call was to Garka Imports. IV T he trip would take a little more tlian a hundred hours, assuming Junnabl went direct to Hane. All Wd knew was that the freiter was in acceleration and would be ready to Translocate in a few hours. He could only guess what Junnabl had said to Garka, or what Garka's reaction was to the call. Garka might have let something slip. Not that Junnabl needed any more alerting. Wend's impulsive use of Hane as an ambush point had been a bad misstep. At the best, Junnabl iknew the Garkas were involved somehow. Very few people knew where Hane was -- the star was rather isolated, with only one livable planet -- but obviously Junnabl knew. And he'd be wondering son should exist there. He'd assume and the Garkas. What made it especially galling was that Vassun wouldn't get the envelope Wend had mailed him until hours after Junnabl's call. Then, too, there was the chance might sort through the outgoing mail and wonder what business they had with Garka Imports. And just in case Wend ran out of things to worry dKut, there was something peculiar about Hane itself, or the area around it. The time he'd been there, he'd been piloted in by a Loob Garka henchman. Ships, he knew, had on occasion blundered into something fatal near Hane; and the Garkas might just be angry enou to let Junnabl do likewise. W end spent most of the trip in his cubicle -- the one that had belonged to Commander Waldron. When he did wander about the ship, there was always at least one Kyshan guard with him and others within call. They let him visit most parts of the ship, but made it plain he was to touch nothing. He stayed alert for any chance to overpower a guard or seize a weapon, but these weren't amateurs. The deep-phested, stocky Kysh moved like cats and were as rey as cats, and they knew how much distance to keep between him and themselves. Unless he got an unexpected break, he'd have to play out the hand he'd dealt himself. The freighter was in Translocation now, flashing througih some limbo that only abtruse mathematics could describe. Wend had no way of knowing for sure they were headed for Hane. When he asked Junnabl their destination, it was only to maintain his pose of co-operation. Junnabl told him nothing. He wondered about Junnabl's flotilla. No doubt it would be somewhere handy if needed. The hours crawled by, and he began to watch his (tonometer. Hane, if that is where they were headed, shouldn't be far now. Then -- at about the right time -- he heard the sounds and felt the vibrations that meant they'd popped into normal space again. The ship's artificial gravity shifted and wavered, trying to fit itself to deceleration, and finally succeeded. And IF now Wend was herded to his cubicle and told to stay there... He sat on the bunk listening to the sounds of the ship. Work was going on somewhere -- repairs or alterations to the machinery. Presently he felt a jar. Something -- a shuttleboat, maybe -- had coupled on. Shortly after that, there were complex maneuvers. He could not tell what was going on, but they might be matching orbits with something. Were they in orbit around Hane? If so, where was Loob Garka? There was another mild jar -- the shuttleboat was pushing off, perhaps. Then silence. The gravity, at about one-third G, was steady. He listened. The air-conditioners hummed. And what was that other sound? A generator, to keep the ship's minor machinery running. But the drive was silent. So they were in oibit somewhere, or drifting free. They? He hadn't heard a sound since the shuttleboat's departure to indicate anyone but himself aboard. He was on his feet swiftly, senses taut. He tried the door and found it unlocked, saw no guard in the corridor. He ran toward the central well; found only dim standby lights on. He turned on full lighting, hauled himself up the ladder to the control room, flipped switches and studied instruments. The main computer was dead. So were the drive and, of course, the radio. He wasn't going anywhere, and he wasn't going to c help. But the artificial gravity remained at a third-G, and the viewscreens were working. He turned on the main one. across the screen could be away. That it crawled as it did meant the ship had a slow end-overend tumble. He began increasing magnification, and cranking the view to follow the star. A dimly lit oblong blob caught his eye. That was another ship within a few miles of him, faintly illuminated by Hane's distant light. He could see she was a derelict, holed in more than one place. Watching her, he suddenly realized that she, and his own ship, were in orbit about something. He started to look for that, but before he found it he saw other ships -- dozens of them -- all apparently unmanned, many of them damag, swinging in parking orbits. The orbits were fantastically quick. His own wasn't much over five minutes. They averaged, he'd guess, four or five hundred miles in radius. "God," he muttered, "what kind of gravity-monster..." It took him half an hour to spot it, and then he saw no disk -- just an odd localized distortion of the light from distant stars. Something too small to see had a gravity sufficient to hold these ships in their tight orbits. Had they gotten caught by accident? Hardly. The orbits were precisely circular, obvioudy planned. This must be Loob Garka's junkpile, where he hid captured ships -- too far from Hane to reflect mucli light, close enough to be reached in a burry. And Junnabl knew about it. Wend saw the Kyian's audacity now. He'd bidden Wend bere where Loob would least suspect, while Junnabl went to negotiate with Loob. At least, that meant Junnabl hadn't mentioned Wend to either Vassun or Loob. Messagedrones would have undoubtedly flashed between Vassun and Loob long before now. But what was this monstrous gravity-well? It could only be a chunk of nuclear matter -- a "bone" of some dead star, perhaips -- of fantastic density. No wonder it didn't reflect Hane's light. Its sinface gravity was too high! So Hane had a companion -- a dark, secret, dwarf-monster. Thinking back over bits of gossip he'd beard, stories of what had befallen wandering ships, he could understand. He wondered if, in fact, there weren't a number of tiny black dwarfs aroimd Hane. It would take a multiple system to explain some of the stories. God help a ship that, approaching normally in the plane of the visible star's planets, blundered too close to one of these things! Tidal forces alone could destroy her. Well, he was safe here for the moment. He got up to make a quick tour of the ship, to see what they'd left him. T ds freighter her name -- Wargentin was was, overall, a squat cylinder about as long as she was wide. Amidships, halfway between the flat ends and parallel with them, was the circular Main Deck, nearly ten feet thick, which contained among other t hing s the artificial gravity machinery. Within the ship it didn't behave entirely like natural, mass-induced gravity. It focused in (or, more precisely, "drew from") opposite directions toward the main deck, so that it was reversed in the two halves of the ship. The focusing made the pull in the control room sixty feet forward, virtually as strong as at the deck itself. Farther away -- outside the ship -- the force reverted, by degrees, to the natural laws, including the inverse-square one, and pulled centripetally toward the ship from all directions. Forward of the main deck were the living quarters and various other things, arranged radially around the centrd well. Gravity forward was usually kept atjone-third G. Aft, the reverse-direction gravity might be low, just enough to hold loose cargo "down," or magjht be turned off entirely. Machinery and nonliquid storage were mostly aft. Wend went down the central well, looking in various compartments. He reached the central hatch and went on through the deck -- carefully, because the abrupt change in gravity could mess up reflexes. He found only standby lits beyond, and about a twentieth-G. Half an hour later he started back to the control room. There was no better weapon aboard than a kitchen knife. Small but necessary parts of the drive were gone. The ship would stay livable for a IB IB long time. But she was parked, until the drive components were put back. He checked and found that they'd left all of it. So, then, they had transferred to Junnabl's ships. It wasn't quite true that he was confirmed here. The two standard scesuits were in place and in working condition. If he preferred, he could put one on and go out to die in space. H e paced the control room. "Damn iti With all this machinery..." He forced himself to sit down and think. One thing Junnabl didn't know was the deal he, Wend, had made with the Garkas. Therefore, Junnabl wouldn't expect him to recognize Hane. All of that would change, though, as soon as the Kyshan was convinced the Garkas knew would prove that Wend had tampered with the orders, and the whole thing would come clear, and Junnabl would hurry back for him. Probably the Kyshan would Translocate away to throw off pursuit, then sneak back. But that wouldn't take long. Wend got out a handkerchief and wiped his palms. Risking death for a big prize was one thing, but being tortured for information, by experts, was something else. Junnabl would break him completely, until he was utterly incapable of lies. He had to communicate with Loob Garka, quickly. Could he rig a radio of some sort? Sure -- to communicate within a take more than a crude qaik-p transmitter to readi Hane. Anymy, transmission that far would take many hours. Well, he needed a message drone, then. He'd already looked to see if there were any aboard, but now he made another trip, looking everywhere he might be stowed. Junnabl had made sure there weren't any. He went back to the control room and stood scowling at the viewscreen. What were his chances of reaching one of the other ships in a spacesuit? About as good as his chances of throwing a pebble lefthanded and hitting a bee in flight a hundred feet away. Nevertheless, he tracked the closer ones and calculated as well as he could without the computer. The next ship out passed within two miles, regularly. But with relative speeds like this, a free jump of two hundred yards would be considered risky. Still, he didn't have much to lose. At worst, he'd die in the suit and frustrate Junnabl. He studied the ship. She was Lenjan; a freighter, but no longer and slimnier than Wargentin. She was holed amidships, but looked sound otherwise. Like all the others, including Wargentin, she had just enough endover-end tumble to keep her aligned along her orbit. The chances of reaching her at all were so infinitesimal that odds against finding message drones aboard her didn't make much difference. He swiveled the viewer, waited for the next ship down to pass imdeir bun and studied her. A Norpan freighter. The pass wa farther away, and the rdative motion igreater, so he rqected that alternative. If he did make a try for the Lenj ship, he'd have to take along some bars of fuel. That was one thing that wouldn't be left in a long-parked ship, and he'd need power for lights and to warm up the tiny drone and project it, assuming he found a drone. So said aloud, "Hell! I'm thinking as if I really expected to make it out there." Now that he'd decided to try, thou, he couldn't bear pondering any more. He huiried to get one of the suits. By the time he lugged it to an airlock and went aft for three fuel bars in their oannisters and attached them to the suit, Wargentin had made five or six orbits and was overtaking the Lenj ship again. "Damn! I won't make it this pass." He'd have to hurry even to get ready for the next one. He sat down and forced himself to t hink everything through. He must, he realized, turn off Wargentins gravity so it wouldn't fight the suit's feeble drive. And he'd better leave early, so he wouldn't overshoot the outer orbit and not have time to correct. He started toward the suit -- then stiffened with a sudden thought. Gravity... These parked ships didn't drift together, over any ordinary period ei time, because their masses were insignificant. But Wargentin had gravity -- and he could turn it up, fore and aft! Why couldn't he use it to pull two ps together? Excited, he looked at his chronometer. Nine hours since Junnabl h left. How soon would he be back? It would take many passes to bring the orbits together. At the present distance, the pull would be only a fraction of a G. Did he have time? Would it work at all? He didn't see why not. He reached for the contrds, cranked the viewer around. A quarter-Jhour to the next pass. "Relax," he growled. "You've got a long joib ahead of you." He made sandwiches and coffee, gulped them down, then paced the compartment. Wargentin gradually gained on the other ship. Finally he sat down, turned up the gravity to a full two G's and let the pressure shove him into the chair. He stared at the screen, though he knew there'd be no visible response in the first pass. He'd been in tit spots, situations where he more than half expected to die within minutes. None of those times, he thought, were worse than this enforced waiting. But by the fourth pass, the Lenj ship's image was bigger on the screen. And somehow the time came when he turned off all gravity, suited up and went outside. V T he Lenj ship seemed to creep slowly toward him. Instinct said, "Now!" He turned on the suit's drive, felt the bootsoles press against his braced feet, saw Wargentin drop from beneath him. Straight out, he IF drove -- that was the first thing; get out there in plenty of time. Hane was behind hlin now, and all he saw was the Lenj ship, against a starfield, seeming to grow and to tilt slowly so the stem pointed at him like a cannon coming to bear. His breath was harsh and rapid in his earphones. Was he going to overshoot? He turned off the drive; stabbed a finger at an auxiliary control to turn him head-on; saw that he wasn't badly out of line. Strange, he thought, how that monstrous gravity he couldn't even feel checked his outward drift like a chain. He was in the ship's orbit, now, following her at equal velocity. Hane swung into view ahead. He aligned hteelf just ibelow the ship and toward the side where she was holed and (touched his drive lightly. A minor correction took him within yards of the jagged wound. He maneuvered to face it and used a back-thrast very gingerly. He didn't want to gash the suit's plastic on some metal thorn. He got in safely, his suit lits making weird shadows in the wrecked compartment. A hatch, leading inward, gaped open, too bent to be closed. But beyond the next compartment was a sound hatch. Once through that, he was in the ship's core, hauling himself along very slowly because the heavy fuel-cansisters attached to his suit must be coaxed, not jerked. He knew where the converterroom would be and found it. Some of the markings he couldn't decipher, but the two charging ports were unmistakable. He moved to them, got into the right position and turned on his suit's footingdrive to push his bootsoles against the deck. Anchored, he worked clumsily at the port covers until he got them hinged open. Now he detached a cannister from his suit, muttering profane thanks to Earth for adopting standard-size fuel bars, wrestled the cannister into position so it hung top-down before him. He unscrewed the top, then gave the cannister a sharp upward tug. It slid free, leaving the heavy bar suspended. He maneuvered that into the port and, holding himself down with one hand, shoved hard at the bar. It moved sluggishly (but with mass I) into the tube. Though his gloves, he felt the jolts as it tripped the mechanical starters, bringing standby batteries to life. He stood anxiously by watching a panel until a tiny light came on. He let out his breath in relief. The ship had power now, whatever else she might lack. He put the second bar in its port, leaving the third in a rack. "Didn't need a spare after all." He started for the control room. H e flipped master switches and studied telltale lights. The drive wasn't in working order, of course -- they'd have seen to that, after parking the ship here. There was no stored air, so he'd have to stay in his suit. And the main computer wasn't working. That latter was bad; he couldn't compute the distance to Hane. He'd have to guess and send several drones (if there were any!) set for various distances and hope IF one would space-in fairly close. He studied the console lights, frowning over the alien symbols. That small bank of lights just might be... He looked around, saw several closed doors, clumped over to one and opened it. Empty -- a suitstorage locker. He tri another. This was the communications cubbyhole. He turned on lights. Yes! Iliose five small ports would be tubes leading to the drone-launching turret! Shakily, he opened one of the ports -- and saw the blunt end of a message drone. He released a catch and drew it out. It was about a foot long and three inches thick, with a bulge at the middle. The drive would be there, at the center of gravity. He peered at setscrews mentally translating the Lenj calibrations into miles. Well... He checked the other four ports; found drones in them. He'd send dl five, set for distances ranging from twenplanet didn't happen to be on the far side of Hane... He made the settings, locked all the port-covers and studied the controls again before doing anything. He ought to let the drones warm a while longer, anyway. Now -- how did he feed his message in? That phone-jack might be where a microphone plugged in -- but where was the mike? Hastily, clumsily, he began to search. None here. He fumbled at his suit; unreeled its extension cord; tried the plug. It didn't fit the alien jack. He clumped out to the main console, foxmd no mikes. He went back and hauled a drone out of its nest. Was there a panel that he could hold against the voice-vibrator of his suit helmet? No. These drones had to be fed their messages electronically. He swore and slammed the thing back into its port. Well, they'd spacein and send out their carrier-waves, and just possibly Loob Garka might hear one of them and make the right guesses. He stood in the doorway of the cubbyhole, waiting for Hane to swing into view on the main screen, then pressed the stud that sent the drones to the turret. A needle flickered on a dial. He stared at it in dismay -- he didn't have to read the alien symbols to know what it meant. A ship had spaced-in somewhat close. Junnabl. He waited tensely for the Hane to come into position, dead ahead, then stabbed at the firing-stud. He couldn't feel any jar, of course, as the tiny drones leaped away, but five lights blinked on a panel. Barring malfunction, they were locked on Hane now. They'd keep themselves aligned and Translocate as soon as they had velocity. He hoped their drives were strong enough to overcome the monstrous gravity behind them. He'd done all he could. He went to the viewer, cranked it to find Wargentin, saw Junnabl's flagship nestled alongside her. So the pirate knew by now that Wend was gone, or would, after a hasty search of the ship. And as soon as the next pass near this Lenj ship, the whole thing would be obvious. Wend could, of course, slip out and, try to hide in space, but Junnbl's radar would spot him at once. He might as well wait here. He began thinMng what he'd do when they came. A nother two hours had fretted by. His suit air reeked of perspiration. A shuttleboat, with to suited figures riding piggyback, was coming cautiously toward the Lenj ship. Wend waited, peering out one edge of the jagged hole. Gripped in his right hand was the third fuel-bar -- as good a club as he'd been able to find, if unwieldly. The two suits detached themselves from the boat and dosed in, separating, cautiously. Wend drew back to one side to avoid a flashlight that searched into the hole. Gripping a handhold with his left hand, he got ready to swing the fuel bar with his right. Time passed, and the temptation was tremendous to peek out; but he resisted it. Finally the flashlight beam stabbed in at a sharp angle and wobbled around the wrecked compartment. He got the fuel-bar moving very slowly. The flashlight itself poked into the hole, and a moment later a suit blocked out the stars. He strained hard at the bar. With painful slowness, it swung around; threatened to tear itself from his gloved hand, so that he had to pull at it very hard. The flashlight beam caught it. The suited pirate went motionless, then, realizing the significance of the slow-motion swing, tried frantically to dodge. But the heavy bar moved on ponderously, sweeping him back out of the hole, sending him in a headover-heels tumble. Wend was already moving. He launched himself out after the tumbling figure. The flashlight was ginning away uselessly; so was whatever weapon the pirate had held. Wend reached him, got behind him, waited until the balance was right and gave him a shove that sent the pirate spinning anew and Wend shooting feet-first to one side. A rupter beam slashed candescence in a shower. Wend was already curving up and around the hull, working frantically at his drivecontrols to keep aligned. Another rupter beam missed him narrowly, then he was beyond the hull. He took quick evasive action, straining the suit's drive to ,push him outward, careful not to move retrograde to the ship because that would mean being pulled down toward the small dark gravity-monster. He got turned so he could see back. The shuttleboat was in sight, waiting for the two suited men to reach it. Junnabl's ship was headed this way. The suit radio was a clamor of harsh Kyshan oaths. Soon the radar would find him. Well, he thought savagely, I gave it a try. And Vm not going to let them take me alive. Junnabl will never know where that cache is! But Junnabl -- Wend saw presently -- had other problems. Missiles, ghostly in Hane's distant light, were streaking toward the pirate ship. It fout them off desperately with counter-missiles while it leaped into acceleration, out of orbit and away. More missiles pursued. But Junnabl, Wend could see, would get velocity enough to IF Translocate before ever being hit. Smaller missiles came after the shuttleboat. It veered ifrantically, away from them. Wend gasped, "God! Not retrograde!" But already the boat, orbital speed lost, was spiralling down, its drive vastly overworked trying to fight that gravity. It wouldn't go all the way in, of course. But the tidal forces -- H e turned on his suit transmitter, then waited to get his voice under control. "Loob Garka? This is Taintless Wend. Do you hear me." It took them minutes to make a transmission on his wavelength. "Wend? This is Loob Garka. I have a fix on you. Whai in hell are you doing? Trying to hijack one of my ships?" Wend's chuckle was shaky. "I was just guarding her for you. Evidently one of those message drones was close enough." Loob said amusedly, "You need not have wasted so many. Don't you think I have listening devices out around Hane? But you're lucky they were Lenj drones. That was the only thing that told me where they'd come from!" VI T he cache hadn't been hard to find, and no harder to dig up. Wend sat with Loob and with Vassun Garka, who was newly arrived from Norp. Wend asked the latter, "What did Junnabl say when he called you?" Vassun showed his teeth. "He pick up cargo for them. He didn't mention you. I was startled, at first. But when I got your letter, I understood. Now, about this division -- " Loob interrupted, "It was a thing I don't like, your giving him Hane co-ordinates. I do not see that we are obligated to keep the agreement." Vassun said, "We'll give you your fourth, but considering events I'm inclined to agree with Loob about the rest. Can you tell me any reason, other than you already have, why we should send half back to Terra?" Wend tried to lie casually. "Well, no. Except that the letter I sent you wasn't the only one I sent." Vassun considered, looking almost pleased. "Ah. And if you are not free to intercept it within a certain time, someone will open it, yes? But you could be bluffing." Loob took a healthy swig of the refreshments and grinned. "I like a good bluff. And this Earthman is a valuable acquaintance. Let us keep the agreement." Wend said, "Fine. And you'll make an additional profit buying my fourth from me at your usual scandalous rates. I won't find it convenient stuff to peddle around myself. I'll have to ran, and fix up a new alias, since Junnabl's still alive to talk." Loob veered at Vassun. "You see?" Then he peered at Wend. "I understand you have lost your yacht. Now I happen to have on hand a fine small ship, a rebuilt military scout. I will sell it to you at a IF  Short Story She was a typical blushing bride -- though she blushed into the far ultravioletl I t 'Was a standard six-month marriage contract. I signed it, and Landy signed it, and we were man and wife, for the time being. The registrar clicked and ohnttered and disgorged our license. My friends grinned and slapped me on the back and bellowed congratulations. Five of Tandy's sisters giggled and hummed and went through complete spectral changes. We were all very happy. "Kiss the bride!" cried my friends and her sisters. Landy slipped into my arms. It was a good fit; she was pliable and slender, and I engulfed her, and the petals of her ingestion-slot fluttered prettily as I pressed my lips against them. We held the pose for maybe half a minute. Give her credit; she didn't flinch. On Tandy's world they don't kiss, not with their mouths. at least; and I doubt that she enjoyed the experience much. But by the terms of our marriage conitraot we were following Terran mores. That has to be decided in advance, in these interworld marriages. And here we kiss the bride; so I kissed the bride. My pal Jim Owens got carried away and scooped up one of Tandy's sisters and Idked her. She gave him a shove in the chest that knocked him across the chapel. It wasn't her wedding, after all. The ceremony was over, and we had our cake and hallucinogens; and about midnight someone said, "We ought to give the honeymooners some privacy." So they all cleared out, and Landy and I started our wedding nigjht. W e waited until they were gone. Then we took the back exit from the chapel and got into a transport capsule for two, very snug, Landy's sweet molasses fragrance pungent in my nostrils, her flexible limbs coiled against mine. I nudged a stud, and we went floating down Harriman Channel at three hundred kilometers an hour. The eddy currents weren't bad, and we loved the ride. She kissed me again; she was learning our ways fast. In fifteen minutes we reach our programmed destination, and the capsule took a quick left turn, squirted through an access sphincter and fastened itself to the puckered skin of our hotel. The nose of the capsule produced the desirid degree of irritation; the skin opened, and we shot into the building. I opened the capsule and helped Landy out, inside our room. Her soft golden eyes were shimmering with merriment and joy. I slapped a privacy seal on the wiall-filters. "I love you," she said in morer- less Engli. "I love you," I told her in her own language. She pouted at me. "This is a Terran marriage, remember?" "So it is. So it is. Champagne and caviar?" "Of course." I programmed for it, and the snack came rolling out of the storage unit, ice-cold and inviting. I popped the cork and sprinkled lemon juice on the caviar, and we dined. Fish eggs and overripe grape juice, nothing more, I reminded myself. After that we activate the periscope stack and stared up through a hundred storeys of hotel at the stars. There was a lover's moon in the sky that iiigjht and also one of the cartels had strung a row of beady jewels across about twenty degrees of arc, as thou purely for our pleasure. We held hands and watched. A fter that we dissolved our wedding clothes. And after that we consummated our marriage. You don't think I'm going to tell you about that, do you? Some things are still sacred, even now. If you want to find out how to make love to a Suvomese, do as I did and marry one. But I'll ve you a few hints about what it's like. Anatomically, it's homologous to the process customary on Terra, so far as the relative roles of male and female go. That is, man gives, woman receives, in essence. But there are differences, of course. Why marry an alien, otherwise? I confess I was nervous, although this was my ninety-first wedding night. I had never married a Suvomese before. I hadn't been to bed with one, either, and if you stop to reflect a little on Suvomese ethical practices you'll see what a damnfool suggestion that was. I had studied a Suvomese marriage manuel, but as any adolescent on any world quickly realizes, translating words and tridim prints into action is trickier than it seems, the first time. Landy was very helpful, though. She knew no more about Terran males than I did about Suvomese females, of course; but she was eager to learn and eager to see that I id all die dghl dungs. So we managed esoeOenitly well. There's a knk to lit Some men have it, some don't I do. The next morning we breakfasted on a sun-washed terrace overlooking a turquoise pool of dancing amoeboids, and later in the day we checked out and capsuled down to the spaceport to begin our wedding journey. "Happy?" I asked my bride. "Very," she said. "You're my favorite husband already." "Were any of the others Terrans?" "No, of course not." I smiled. A husband likes to know he's been the first. At the spaceport, Landy signed the manifest as Mrs. Paul Clay, which gave me great pleasure, and I signed beside her, and they scanned us and let us go aboard. The ship personnel beamed at us in delight. A handsome indigo-skinned girl showed us to our cabin and wished us a good trip so amiably that I tried to tip her. I caught her creditcounter as she passed me and pushed the dial up a notch. She looked aghast and set it right back again. "Tipping's forbidden, sirl" "Sorry. I got carried away." "Your wife's so lovely. Is she Honirangi?" "Suvornese." "I hope you're very haippy together." were alone again. I cuddled Landy up against me. Interworld marriages are all the rage nowadays, of course; but I hadn't married Landy merely because it was a fad. I was genuinely attracted to her, and she to me. All over the galaxy people are contracting the weirdt marriages just to say that they've done it -- marrying Sthenics, Gruulers, even Hhinamor. Really grotesque couplings. I don't say that the prime purpose of a marriage is sex, or that you necessarily have to marry a member of a species with which a physical relationship is easy to maintain. But there ought to be some kind of warmth in a marriage. How can you feel real love for a Hhinamor wife who is actually seven pale blue reptiles permanently enclosedrrin an argon atmosphere? At least Landy was mammalian and humanoid. A Suvomese-Terran mating would of course be infle, but I am a conventional sort of person at heaiFt and try to avoid committing leave the task of continuing the species to those whose job is reproduction, and you can be sure that even if our chromosomes were mutually congruent I would never have brought the disgusting subject up with Landy. Marriage is marriage, reproduction is reproduction, and what does one have to do with the other, anyway? During the six subjective weeks of our journey, we amused ourselves in various ways aboard the ship. We made love a good deal, of course. We went gravity-swiniming and played paddle-polo in the star lounge. We introduced ourselves to other newlywed couples and to a newly wed super-couple consisting of three Banamons and a pair of Ghinoi. IP And also Landy had her teeth transplanted, as a special surprise for me, Suvomese have teeth, but they are not like Terran teeth, as why should they be? They are elegant little spiny needles mounted on rotating bases, which a Suvornese uses to impale his food while he rasps at it from the rear with his tongue. In terms of Suvomese needs they are quite functional, and in the context of her species Landy's teeth were remarkably attractive, I thought. I didn't want her to change them. But she must have picked up some subtle hint that I found her teeth anti-erotic, or something. Perhaps I was rachating an underlying dislike for that alien dental arrangement of hers even while I was telling .myself on the conscious level that they were lovely. So she went to the ship's surgeon and got herself a mouthful of Terran teeth. I didn't know where she went. She vanished after breakfast, telling me she had something important to attend to. All in ignorance, I donned gills and went for a swim while Landy surrendered her pretty teeth to the surgeon. He cleaned out the sockets and implanted a rooting layer of analogous gumissue. He chiseled new receptor sockets in this synthetic implant. He drill-tailored a set of donor teeth to fit and slipped them into the periodontal membranes and bonded them with a quick jab of homografting cement. The entire process took less than two hours. When Landy returned to me, the band of color-variable skin across her forehead was way up toward the violet, indicating considerable emotional disturbmce; and I felt a little edgy about it. She smiled. She drew back the petals of her ingestion-slot. She showed me her new teeth. # # T andy! What the hell -- I" J --  Before I could check myself, I was registering shock and dismay from every pore. And Landy registered dismay at my dismay. Her forehead shot clear past the visible spectrum, bathing me in a lot of ultraviolet that distressed me even though I couldn't see it, and her petals drooped and her eyes glistened and her nostrils clamped together. "You don't like them?" she asked. "I didn't expect -- you took me my surprise -- " "I did it for you!" "But I liked your old teeth," I protested, "No. Not really. You were afraid of them. I know how a Terran kisses. You never kissed me like that. Now I have beautiful teeth. Kiss me, Paul." She trembled in my arms. I kissed her. We were having our first emotional crisis. She had done this crazy thing with her teeth purely to please me, and I wasn't pleased, and now she was upset. I did all the things I could to soothe her, short of telling her to go back and get her old teeth again. Somehow that would have made matters worse. I had a hard time getting used to Landy with Terran choppers in her dainty little mouth. She had reoeived a flawless set, of course, two .eamnjg ivory rows; but tihey looked incongruous in her ingestion slot, land I liad to fight to keep from reacting negatively every time she opened her mouth. When a man buys an old Gothic cathedral, he doesn't want an architect to trick it up with wiggling bioplast inserts around the spire. And when a man marries a Suvomese, he doesn't want her to turn herself piecemeal into a Terran. Where would it end? Would Landy now decorate herself with a synthetic navel and have her breasts shifted about and -- Well, she didn't. She wore her Terran teeth for about ten shipboard days, and neither of us took any overt notice of them, and then very quietly she went back to the surgeon and had him give her a set of Suvomese dentals again. It was only money, I tdd myself. I didn't make any reference to the switch, hoping to treat die episode as a temporary aberration that now was ended. Somehow I got the feeling that Landy still thou she ought to have Terran teeth. But we never discussed it, and I was happy to see her looking Suvomese again. Y ou see how it is, with marriage? Two people try to please one another, and they don't always succeed, and sometimes they even hurt one another in the very attempt to please. That's how it was with Landy and me. But we were mature enough to survive the great tooth crisis. If this had been, say, my tenth or eleventh marriage, it might have been a disaster. One learns how to avoid the pitfalls as one gains experience. We ngled a good deal with our fellow passengers. If we needed lessons in how not to conduct a marriage, they were easily available. Ihe cabin next to ours was occupied by another mixed couple, which was excuse enough for us to spend some time with them; but very quickly we realized that we dito't relish their company. They were both playing for a bond forfeiture -- a very ugly scene, let me tell you. The woman was Terran -- a big, voluptuous sort with orange hair and speckled eyeballs. Her name was Marje. Her new husband was a Lanamorian, a hulking ox of a humanoid with cormgated blue skin, four telescopic arms and a tripod deal for legs. At first they seemed likeable enough, both on the flighty side, interstellar tourists who had been everywhere and done everything and now were settling down for six months of bliss. But very shortly I noticed that they spoke sharply, even cruelly, to one another in front of strangers. They were out to wound. You know how it is with the sixmonth marriage contract, don't you? Bach party posts a desertion bond. If the oier fails to go the route and walks out before the legal dissolution date, the bond is forfeited. Now, it's not all that hard to stay married for six months, and the bondsmen rarely have to pay off; we are a mature dvilization. Such early abuses of the system as conspiring to have one party desert, and then splitting the forfeiture latw. have long ce become extinct But Marje and her lnamorian mate were both hard up ior cash Each was hot for the foiieitore and each was working like a demon to outdo the other in obnoxiousness, hoping tto break up the marriage fast I saw what Wias going on, I suggested to Landy that we look for friends elsewhere on the ship. Which led to our second emotional crisis. As part of their campaign of mutual repulsion, Marje and hubby decided to enliven their marriage wi'th a spot of infidelity. I take a very old-fashioned view of the marriage vow, you understand. I regard myself as bound to love, honor and obey for six months, with no fooling around on the side; if a man can't stay monogamous tugh an entire marriage, he ought to get a spine implant I assumed that Landy felt the same way. I was wrong. W e were in the ship's lounge, the four of us, getting high on direct jolts of teel oils and stray esters, when Marje made a pass at me. She was not subtle. She deopaqued her clothes, waved yards of bosom in my face and sMd, 'There's a nice wide bed in our cabin, sweetheart." 'It isn't bedtime," I told her. "It could be." "No." #Be a friend in need, Paulsie. This monster's been crawling all over me for weeks. I want a Terran to love me." The ship is full of available Terrans, Marje." "I want you." "I'm not available." "Out it outi You mean to say you won't do a fellow Terran a little favor?" She stood up, quivering, bare flesh erupting all over the place. In scabrously explicit terms she described her intimacies with the Lanamorian and begged me to give her an hour of more oonventional pleasure. I was steadfast. Perhaps, she suggested, I would tape a simulacrum and send that to her bed? No, not even that, I said. At length Marje got angry with me for turning her down. I suppose she could be legitimately annoyed at my lack of chivalry, and if I hadn't happened to be married at the moment I would adly have obliged her; but as it was I couldn't do a thing for her, and she was boiling. She dumped a drink in my face and stalked out of the lounge, and in a few moments the Lanamorian followed her. I looked at Landy, whom I had carefully avoided during the whole embaiTiassing colloquy. Her forehead was sagging close to infrared, which is to say, in effect, that was almost in tears. "You don't love me," she said. "Whatr "If you loved me you'd have gone with her." "Is that some kind of Suvomese marriage custom?" "Of course not," she snuffled. "We're married under Terran mores. It's a Terran marriage custom." "What gives you the idea that -- " "Terran men are unfaithful to their wives. I know. I've read about it. Any husband who cares about his wife at all cheats her now and then. But you -- " "You've got things mixed up," I said. "I dont! I dontr And she neared tantrum stage. Gently I tried to tell her that she had been reading too many historical novels, that adultery was very much out of fashion, that by turning Marje down I was demonstrating the solidity of my love for my wife. Landy wouldn't buy it. She got more and more confused and angry, huddling into herself and quivering in misery. I consoled her in all the ways I could imagine. Gradually she became tranquil again, but she stayed moody. I began to see that marrying an alien had its complexities. T wo days later, Marje's husband made a pass at her. I missed the preliminary phases. A swarm of energy globes had enooimtered the ship, and I was up lat the view-wall with most of the other passengers, watching the graceful gyrations of these denizens of hyperspace. Landy was with me at fiist; but she had seen energy globes so often that they bored her, and so she told me she was going down to the scintillation tank for a while, as long as everyone was up here. I said I'd meet her there later. Eventually I did. There were about a dozen beings in the tank, making sparkling blue tracks through the radiant greenish-gold fluid. I stood by the edge, looking for Landy, but there was no one of her general physique below me. And then I saw her. She was nude and dripping polychrome fluid, so she must have come from the tank only a few moments before. The hulking Lanamorian was beside her and clearly trying to molest her. He was pawing her in various ways, and Tandy's spectrum was showing obvious distress. Hubby to the rescue, naturally. But I wasn't needed. Do you get from this tale an image of Landy as being frail, dolllike, something of porcelain? She was, you know. Scarcely forty kilograms of woman there, and not a bone in her body as we understand bone -- merely cartilage. And shy, sensitive, easily set aflutter by an unkind word or a misconstrued nuance. Altogether in need of husbandly protection at all times. Yes? No. Sharks, like Suvomese, have only gristle in place of bone, but forty kilograms of shark do not normally require aid in looking after themselves, and neither did Landy. Suvomese are agile, well coordinated, fast-moving and stronger than they look, as Jim Owens found out at my wedding when he kissed Tandy's sister. The Lanamorian found it out, too. Between the time I spied him bothering Landy and the time I reached her side, she had dislocated three of his arms and flipped him on his massive back, where he lay flexing his tripod supports and groaning. Landy, looking sleek and pleased with herself, kissed me. "What happened?" I asked. "He made an obscene proposition." . a "You really mined him, Landy." "He made me terribly angry" she said, although e no longer looked or sound very angry. I said, "Wiasn't it just the other day that you were telling me I didn't love you because I turned down Marje's obscene proposition? You aren't consistent, Landy. If you think that infidelity is essential to a Terran-mores marriage, you should have given in to him, yes?" 'Terran husbands are unfaithful. Terran wives must be chaste. It is known as the double standard." "The what?" "The double standard," she repeated, and she began to explain it to me. I listened for a while, then started to laugh at her sweetly innocent words. "You're cute," I told her. "You're terrible. What kind of a woman do you think I am? How dare you encourage me to be unfaithful?" "Landy, I -- " She didn't listen. She stomped away, and we were having our third emotional crisis. Poor Landy was determined to run a Terran-mores marriage in what she considered the proper fashion, and she took bright cerise umbrage when I demurred. For the rest of the week she was cool to me, and even after we had made up, tngs never seemed quite the same as before. A gulf was widening between us -- or rather, the gulf had been there all along, and it was becoming harder for us to pretend it didn exist. After six weeks of these annoying misunderstandings, we landed. O UT destiDaition was Thalia, the , honeymoon planet I had spent hidf a dozen earlier honeymoons there; but Landy had never seen it, so I had signed up for another visit. Thalia, you know, is a good-zed planet, about one and a h Earths in mass, density and gravitation, with a couple of colorful moons that might almost have been designed for lovers, since they're visible day and night The sky is lit green, the vegetation runs heavily to a hightannin orange-yellow, tod the air is as bracing as nutmeg. The place is owned by a cartel that mines prealloyed me on the dry northern continent, extracts power cores in the eastern lobe of what once was a tropical forest land is now a giant slab of laterite and, on a half-sized continent in the western ocean, operates a giant resort for newlyweds. It's more or less of a galactic dude ranch; the staff is iaregly Terran, and the clientele comes om all over the cosmos. You can do wonders with an uninhabited habitable planet, if you grab it with the right kind of lease. Landy and I were still on the chilly side when we left the starship and were catapulted in a greaseflask to our honeymoon cabin. But she warmed immediately to the charm of the environment. We had been placed in a floalting monomolecular balloon, anchored a hundred meters above the main house. It was total isolation, as most honeymooners crave. (I know there are exceptions.) We worked hard at enjoying our stay on Thalia. We let ourselves be plugged into a ptierodactyl kite that itook us on a tour of e entire continent. We sipped rad(n cocktails at a get-toger party. We munched algae steaks over a crackling fire. We swam. We hunted. We fished. We made love. We lolled under the friendly sun until my skin grew copper-colored and Lady's turned the color of fine oxblood porcelain, strictly from Kang-hsi. We had a splendid time, despite the spreading network of tensions that were coming to underlie our relationship like an interweave of metallic filaments. U ntil the bronco got loose, everything went well. It wasn't exactly a bronco. It was a Vesilian quadruped of vast size, blue with orange stripes, a thick murderous tail, a fierce set of teeth -- two tons, more or less, of vicious wild animal. They kept it in a corral back of one of the proton wells, and from time to time members of the staff dressed up as cowpokes and staged impromptu rodeos for the guests. It was impossible to break the beast, and no one had stayed aboard it for more than about ten seconds. There had been fatalities, and at least one hand had been mashed so badly that he couldn't be returned to life; they simply didn't have enough tissue to put into the centrifuge. Landy was fascinated by the animal. Don't ask me why. She hauled me (to the corral whenever an exhiibiition was announced and stood in rapture while the cowpokes were whirled around. She was right beside the fence the day the beast threw a rider, kicked over the traces, ripped free of its handlers and headed for the wide open spaces. "Kill it!" people began to scream. But no one was armed except the cowpokes, and they were in varying stages of disarray and destruction that left them incapable of doing anything useful. The quadruped cleared the corral in a nicely timed leap, paused to kick over a sapling, bounded a couple of dozen meters and halted, pawing the ground and wondering what to do next. It looked hungry. It looked mean. Confronting it were some fifty young husbands who, if they wanted a chance to show their brides what great heroes they were, had the opportunity of a lifetime. They merely had to grab a sizzler from one of the fallen hands and drill the creature before it chewed up the whole hotel. There were no candidates for heroism. All the husbands ran. Some of them grabbed their wives; most did not. I was planning to run, too, but I'll say this in my favor: I intended to take care of Landy. I looked around for her, failed for a moment to find her and then observed her in the vicinity of the snorting beast. She seized a rope dangling from its haunches and pulled herself up, planting herself behind its mane. The beast reared and stamped. Landy clung, looking like a child on that massive back. She slid forward. She touched her ingestion slot to the animal's skin. I visualized dozens of tiny needles brushing across that impervious hide. The animal neighed more or less. IF relaxed and meekly trotted back to the corral. Landy persuaded it to jump over the fence. A moment later the startled cowhands, those who were able to function, tethered the thing securely. Landy descended. "When I was a child I rode such an animal every day," she explained gravely to me. "I know how to handle them. They were less fierce than they look. And, oh, it was so good to be on one again!" "Landy," I said. "You look angry." "Landy, that was a crazy thing to do. You could have been killed!" "Oh, no, not a chance." Her spectrum began to flicker toward the extremes, though. "There was no risk. It's lucky I had my real teeth, though, or -- " I was close to collapse, a delayed reaction. 'Dont ever do a thing like that again, Landy Softly she said, "Why are you so angry? Oh, yes, I know. Among Terrans, the wife does not do such things. It was the man's role I played, yes? Forgive me? Forgive me?" I forgave her. But it took three hours of steady talking to work out all the complex moral problems of the situation. We ended up by agree ing that if the same thing ever happened again, Landy would let me soothe the beast. I t didn't kill me. I lived through the honeymoon and happily ever after. The six months elapsed; our posted bonds were redeemed, and our marriage was automatically terminated. Then, the instant we were single again, Landy turned to me and sweetly uttered the most shocking proposal I have ever heard. "Marry me again," she said. We do not do such things. Sixmonth liaisons are of their very nature transient, and when they end, they end. I loved Landy dearly, but I was shaken by what she had suggested. However, she explained what she had in mind, and I listened with growing sympathy, and in the end we went before the registrar and executed a new six-month contract. But this time we agreed to abide by Suvornese and not Terran mores. So the two marriages aren't really consecutive in spirit, though they are in elapsed time. And Suvornese marriage is very different from marriage Terran style. How? I'll know more about that a few months from now. Landy and I leave for Suvoma tomorrow. I have had my teeth fixed to please her, and it's quite strange walking around with a mouthful of tiny needles, but I imagine I'll adapt. One has to put up with little inconveniences in 'the give-and-take of marriage. Landy's five sisters are returning to their native world with us. Eleven more sisters are there already. Under Suvornese custom I'm married to all seventeen of them at once, regardless of any other affiliations they may have contracted. So Bride Ninety-one is also Bride Ninety-two for me, and there'll be seventeen of her all at once, dainty, molasses-flavored, golden-eyed and sleek. I'm in no position right now to predict what this marriage is goIF  Novelette The Masters owned us oil, body and soul -- and what infelligenf person would want if otherwise? I could not have written this record six months ago. Our posterity will need it to explain 'both the new and evolving species of this planet, Ed, as well as the tremendous dispersion of human and alien life forms to be found throughout such a wide volume of the cosmos. I am not a Grammer, yet I am telling this story. I am not History, yet I will make and form meaning as the Histories do. I am a Genetic. And this means that I was bred to be genius in the specialized field of basic life components. Where the Grammers are genius at communications and the Histories are genius at putting together the important parts of the past, I can put together the molecules required to build nearly any life variant which might be desired by our Masters. Except for events unforeseen by tbe Masters, I would be genetically incapable of telling this history! In the dim past, beyond the normal scrutiny of the Histories, the Master race somehow became a party to the engineering of space travel. The Histories say that the Masters could not have developed space engineering themselves. Perhaps some other form, either common or alien to their world of origin, unavoidably gave the Master race this tool for deep space travel. Subsequently, for countless thousands of years the Masters spread throughout the stars, absorbing all usable life forms into their system of vassalage. Now -- and perhaps always -- the Masters feel Aat all of space and all of life is their proper domain and servant, respectively. To a Genetic like myself there is no mystery as to how and why the Master could dominate any life form. Each Master has a thin but tough integument covered by minute specialized organelles spaced in a latticelike network. These molecular groupings are spaced in a linked receiving and sending sensory-system network capable of one peculiar property of activity. The network can perceive (or sense) the basic purpose of any living entity constructed of matter. I don't mean that the Masters are mind readers, or that they can "tune in" on an individual life form and know what that individual is going to do the next instant Their sensing apparatus is far cruder than that. But, in a way, the end results are just as spectacular. Masters know beyond any reasonable doubt exactly what each individual life is potentially capable of doing. Any life group, or individual life form, which the Master "reads" to have the potential of killing a Master is simply killed by the Master. Histories tell that even yet, at the borders of the Masters' domain, entities are discovered and In rare instances, the Masters will select a relatively undifferentiated race such as our human race and pass all members before a board of selectors. Each individual is screened for potential harm to the Master race. If the potential is low, that individual is retained under strict security guard to be used as a breeder. In turn, his or her offspring are reviewed by a board. This process continues for many generations until a perfectly satisfactory human has been genetically produced. Since direct sensory knowledge of the genetic purpose of each individual is always known to the Master, individuals are bred to be loyal and to be highly specialized in a useful area of service. If I were to include a list of the chief characteristics to be found in the Master race I would not include intelligence. Highest on the list would be a characteristic of survival. Domesticated races of many kinds accomplish all of the Master's work -- his thinkin g, his exploration, his fighting, his invention, his every mode of living. The Master's only work consists of screening races or individual members of races. Their loyal servants do all else. We domesticates are incapable of IF even the thought of disloyalty. Would a meat animal, hred for # generations for the traits of docility and tender meat, connive and scheme toward the day of freedom? Perhaps one of its early ancestors might have sought freedom. But his "freedom" genes have long been eliminated from his progeny. So it was with each of us, no matter the star of our origin. We are incapable of disloyal thoughts or actions toward our Masters. We are capable, sometimes unusually so, in the field of work for which we were bred. I am bred for and trained to be genius Genetic! II M y first memory occurred at the age of two. I looked around the bright orange cubicle containing the usual assortment of human training toys when my sight caught and clung to the three-dimensional chromosomal model. I remember thinking that the energy form containing fifteen energy levels was placed in the wrong mel. I screamed because I wanted to change its position. It wasn't a question of symmetry. It was a question of "rightness" and my subjective need to restore something which was clearly not of nature. The Mothers, who are usually very good about changing wet pants and other normal biological needs, were just not capable of satisfying my difficulty on that day. Ihe Mothers had their own specity and could not have dreamed that moving a phosphorus atom on a threedimensional model would stop a twoyear-old from screaming. I shall never forget that day. It was my unhappiest! Soon thereafter the Teachers entered my life. Among the many things I learned were certain facts of my own life. I was #th screened generation. I was the penultimate of many important human lines bred to be key research and development scientists in the field of genetics. Since research in genetics required knowledge of all of the sciences, I was rigidly instructed in every area. But the penalty of being bred with such exceptional tdents as mine was similar to penalties instrinsic to all of the Masters' vassals. Since I was not bred to be Grammer, I became confused, illogical and poor of memory whenever I tried to discuss any subject other than my own. Conversely, any subject bordering or merely symbolized within my field of competence provided a tapestry weave endless diagrams of beauty. For that is what I was bred to be -- genetic genius for the research and development of other domesticates for the Masters. My teachers were the experts they had been bred to be. They started my learning process too early for me to say that at such and such a date I began my education. Learning was a full time awake activity for me. I had no way at all of knowing whether my regime was harder or easier than any other training program -- for mine was designed solely for me, and I was the only pupil within the program. I 'll not forget the day when Teacher of Biologies had progrimmed the multisensory learning computer for genetics of an advanced nature. The course consisted of placing all known facts about genetics into the computer, along with all of the logical relations and functional relations which would tie the facts together. The student is then asked to simulate experiments by symbolic processes which the computer assesses against its tautological structure. If the student is wrong, the computer is supposed to signal this fact to the student as well as to explain the error. If the student is right, the computer determines all of the important ramifications of the simulated experiment and rewards the student by presenting a realistic but simulated model of his successful experiment in three-dimensional color vision. Now, I had always been curious about the structure of organelles which could provide an apparatus capable of sensing th structure and function of other organelles. I set up my symbolic experiment and pushed the appropriate computer keys. The logical extrapolation which was presented to me in full color as my reward for selecting the correct postulates and ingredients was that of one of the Master race. At the same time, the experiment "halt" light came on, and the computer carefully explained to me that the experiment was incapable of being performed due to my logical inconsistencies. From this day I knew that the current logical construct of heredity was faulty admitting to conflicting conclusions. I knew also that I had accidentally placed my finger on the key difference ibetween the Master race and other life forms! My education progressed rather well, without significant difference 'between mine and that received by other "professional" categories. Factual knowledge was easy to absorb both by reason of my birthright and because of the chemical and mechanical aids to learning. I explored the byways and pathways of allied fields of knowledge but, whenever my life required any form of communication outside of genetic or genetic related problems, I generally depended upon the Gramme. They couldn't understand, but th could communicate very well. Not until my period of advanced training was begun did further important knowledge regarding Masters come to me. m T he day I was discharged from the Teacher cubicle my advanced training began. My world had consisted chiefly of sleeping, eating and learning. Learning consisted of guidance by teachers and manipulation of the large multisensory learning computer. Facts about the outside world were known only at second-hand. Exposure to the outside world under Advanced Training was optional for all specialist scientists or engineers. If, for example, one were trained to study crystal-forming phenomenon, there might be no theoretical reason for the person to travel outIF side of his cubicle. If, however, problems of cosmology, no hindrance existed for the scientist to visit other planets, solar systems or whatever he pleased. I elected, therefore, to continue my advanced study through travel. I desired to experience at first hand the result of changing ecology, to deduce at first hand the effect of star, gravity, chemical and radiation on composite and simple gene structures. I desired, too, to satisfy the increasingly driving curiosity of my maturing intellect. I was now ten years old. Under the guidance of Teachers, with the aid of Grammers, Travel Planner specialists laid out my fiveyear itinerary. I was to visit at least fourteen stars of class G, M, O and A, with twenty-seven different planets to sample. I closed the door of the Growth cubicle with a sense of relief. The robotic track car was waiting. I jumped inside and pressed the window button to anti-polarization so that I could view the scenery which had so long been denied me in person. Soon I had to admit that the sight of miles of cubelike structures without windows or decorations and an occasional robotic track car were not impressive sensory stimuli. But these, nonetheless, together with a real sky and sun, inspired me greatly at the time. Subjectively I knew that I was maturing and I was glad to be alive in the world. Perhaps five hours were consumed in traveling to the spaceport. Other ports were closer, I was told, but the ship of my destination was there. I grabbed my very small bag of personal belongings -- a three-dimensional yellow star representing my badge of genetic servitude to the Masters and which was given to me by the head Teacher when I successfully predicted the proper genetic structure of # biological organisms from a standard list of characteristics; a portable multisensory, multipurpose computer presented me on my entrance to Advanced Training and a micro-microompater tape containing the basic physical characteristics of every life form above level six that I would expect to meet anywhere on a broad locus surrounding my trip. I jumped from the track car and ran to the spaceport door. Inside I found the same serene environment that I had come to expect everywhere in my short life. Several humans were standing around holding blue or green tags which identified their purpose in life. The blue was a Personal Attendant to a Master. The green was a Master Carrier. I knew when I saw these two colors that a Master must be near by. I strained my neck to peer in every comer, hoping to see one, but no such luck was mine that day. D isappointed, I began the long walk around the paneled walkway searching for a Grammer. I held my yellow star proudly before me so that all would know that I was Genetic. I passed many sliding doors before I came to the rainbow color of the Grammer. I walked in without hesitation and found the Grammer right where he belonged. He must have been nearly seventy-five years old, yet his keen eyes followed his nose directly to my yellow star and down again to his desk where, with an affirmative nod, he checked a printed travel list. "I don't have a Guider available to show you the remaining way to your ship," he said, "but I can tow you a map in genetic code which will be easy for you to follow. Is that all right?" I felt the tightening in my throat muscles that always preceded attempts to convey ideas beyond my specialty. My mind raced through at least # permutations of the find a key which could be used to communicate the idea of "yes." My tongue became dry; my hands began to sweat. The harder I tried, the tighter my teeth were held together. I strained and tortured my thinking to no avail. Finally, noting my difficulty -- and possibly expecting it -- the Grammer spoke again. "If you approve, give me the number of regular solids which can be used to fill all of space without overlap and without leaving a hole of any size. If you do not approve, tell me the number of heavy-atom isotopes required to build the sprassey acid molecule." My mind clarified instantly and flung itself to the five Platonian solids. I was in control of me again! "Five," I said. In spite of the fact that l knew riiat the Grammer had memorized key statements of this sort so that he could communicate with specialists like me and that he didn't have the vaguest idea what he was talking about, I felt relieved for the presence of a person with such obvious empathy. Yet I felt superior to him on this one point. For nearly # years, since the time of Pythagoras around # B.C., man has known of the five regular polyhedrons. Ihe Grammer nodded his head again and proceeded to sketch out symbols on a piece of plastic board. I watched and saw a swift-forming diagram of an unknown -- at least unknown to me -- molecule of very little complexity. The hydrogen atom occured only once. Interlocking energy bonds were used to depict hallways and branches. The normal energy nucleus was depicted in three dimensions. It had been so long since I had used only three dimensions in depicting molecules that I felt somewhat lost. Suddenly, however, I recognized that the hydrogen atom was my goal and the nitrogen atom which was depicted as being in a single state of excitement was our present location. This was a map which I could follow! O nce I was settled in the rocket cubicle assigned to me I reached almost instinctively for my computer. I knew this was a foolish idea but I just had to satisfy my curiosity as to whether or not the old Grammer's genetic roadmap was a permissible molecule within the energy ranges permitted for life. I inserted his specifications in the computer and found, not too surprisingly, that the probability of such a molecule IP existing lat all was about equal to the (probability of ordinary drinking water being generated in the interior of a G type star, by the glass full -- In (the 'ass oontainerl StiU, I had had to (know. Since my cubicle was bare of any forms of intellectually satisfying implements, I was soon faced with the prospect of staring at my walls, concentrating on a problem of my own invention, or reviewing details of life as recorded in my micro-microcomputer tape. I suspect that the number of life forms recorded in considerable detail on this tape amounted to nearly #xI #. Its crossindexing feature was likely to fill up about the same length of tape as the primary data. This time, I randomly requested any form of life to be found in the constellation of Canes Venatici. The planet to which I was assigned in this region of space was known as Stian of a star called Btry. The randomly selected planet from the same constellation was known as Vanatta of the star Uni. The tape didn't contain the source 'history of the names. But no matter; the life form was interesting in itself. Vanatta life seemed to be predictated upon the replicative principle that 'life comes in threes." For some reason yet to be discovered, each genetic pattern replicated itself three times. The consequences were not entirely predictable. In certain cases, where the life level was equivalent to one-celled life on Barth -- life level twenty -- a kind of amorphous "soup" was described. Whereas, for level six and our equivalent of mammals, life replicated in "threes" in a very odd way. There were six life forms superficially similar and which seemed to produce a set of mammal-like forms numbering twenty-seven different shapes, sizes and varieties. Yet, and here was the real oddity, any combination of three mammals -- the "original" six or the total twenty-seven superficially distinct -- could interbreed and produce, at random it would seem, any one of the other twentyseven or "original" similar six. No one had yet untangled the reason for this phenomenon. Whenever the life form was removed from influence of its sun, it died. Bvidently the relationship with their sun was sensitive; yet nothing about the sun's output could be determined to be peculiar. I was about to request information on the composition of the sun, the planet's atmosphere, density, radiation distribution and chemical distribution when a spiderylike Antarean poked its leathery head in my doorway. B red for space, the Antareans were the Masters' space servant. The Anlarean generally knew everjrthing there was to know about space travel and problems. Some Histories seemed to think that they were the original discoverers of contiguous space -- such discovery having led to their absorption into the symbiote pool for the benefit of Masters. Like ell Masters ships, we were outfitted with several forms of propidsion systems. Some forms took advantage of the "equal and opposite reaction." Others were concerned with travel in special spaces. Polarity problems, gravity problems and mass problems each had their special tool of propulsion. For star travel, however, the Antarean established one-to-one correspondence with a contained energy system which mirrored the stress and strains of space. By some sort of multileveled logic, beyond my genetic background to comprehend, they created themselves -- that is, the ship -- in several places at the same time. Symbolically it was something like, "If I am not therei, there # , therc # ,... , there." By making n large enough and tying each "therei" to the mirrored energy system, the ship was certain to be at the location desired as well as many other places. Then, by applying a limited oontrapositive to the animated hypothesis, one arrived where one wished to be. That is, "If I am not therei, therc # , there # ,... there, then I am therea." The Antarean backoned for me to come. I left my articles, except for my gold star, and followed. The Antarean proceeded me into the lounge. Here I was very surprised to see, first thing, a large number of humans. I also recognized the Master Carrier and the Personal Attendant first met at the spaceport entrance. But as I walked behind the crowd, I received the greatest shock of my tenear-old lifel There, with all orifices dangling toward the feed pan, was a live Mas ter! Immediately upon entering the Master's presence "scanning" began. I felt, with every cell of my being, an aliveness beyond description. It was as thou each cell of me was resonating on the same frequency and as though I had become more than just me. I knew my basic purpose in life. I knew I was Genetic. And without the study of life and its endless permutations, I knew that life would become meaningless. I also knew without equivocation that Master was Master and I but a small, meek, propitiatory servant to the desires -- any desires -- of the Master. I knew that life could not be tolerated in any other way! For all practical purposes the Master's scanning was continuous on each person in the room. Yet I was soon able to separate, in my mind, me from the Master. The Master beckoned to me. With extreme feelings of joy, I complied by walking toward the Master. He bid me halt! With extreme joy, I halted. I am sure that if the Master had beckoned me to jump into op space I would have complied with equal joy. No hypnotism was involved, nor any form of mind control. I, as well as every other being in the known volume of space occupied by the Master race, was a product of prior genetic screening. In my case, the product of # screenings. Life just could not be thought of any other way! IV A lthough Grammers were present, Masters had no need for their services, since they were the only untrained life form which could conIF verse equally well with all other life forms. I sensed or felt desires and impulses which at first I tended to indentify with my own personality. Very soon, however, I was able to separate out the "me" from the Master's messages. "You are young for an advanced Genetic," he said. His eye band, a solid circular band of light-sensitive tissue capping off the periphery of his ventral side, changed to deep green. I made no reply, since the Master had not requested me to speak. I could not have produced any social amenities anyway. "I selected your ancestors of the #th screening. The male and female whose protoplasm I caused to be joined were each responsible for great services to your Masters. The female discovered biological means for increasing the diversion of genes in those egg and sperm combinations which were to be subject to later screening, which increased the probability of selecting a desirable set of traits earlier in the screening process. The male had extremely good memory. But he also had one recessive gene which was contraindicated for our purpose." I followed the Master's discussion with great interest, for it not only blended in with my world of genetics, but it was the first bit of knowledge I had regarding my forebears. "That male," the Master continued, "was responsible for codifying the rules of genetics in such a way that a computer could be programmed to contain the intrinsic structure of all of this science." The Master paused to instruct the Carrier to lower him slightly, so that his sucking orifice could better reach the nutrients in the food pam. He continued, "You used the end product of his research during most of your training cycle whenever you placed the pertinent characteristics into your computer and the computer extrapolated, by purely logical means, the result of your factors, producing therefrom a simulated life model." My mind immediately sped back to when I discovered, by means of this very process, the basic construction common to all Masters which enabled them to dominate all other life. I began to shake with fear that my precious and somewhat accidental success would be misconstrued by the Master. Apparently, however, the Master ignored my thinking or did not "receive" it. The Master finished sucking at the food pan and weaved to be raised to a slidy higher level. Nearly facing me now, the Master continued. "The male had to be killed, of course. The recessive gene contained elements of independence which could not be trustworthy at. all times. I am sure that successive generations have eliminated undesirable traits." As the Carrier moved forward with the Master, I was urged to follow behind. He (beckoned me to a chair by a simple table and, for the first time, addressed his Personal Attgidant. "Get this male food of his kind. Also see that he has access to all parts of this ship. His mission is valuable to the Masters. He must learn and grow so that he can better serve us. His type needs freedom to grow." The Master turned to all with his final statement. "Let no one hinder his learning!" M y eyes must have glowed much like the Master's own eye band. Althou I was a genius Genetic, I had not really expected any kind of special treatment in life. And here, at age ten, I was addressed by a live Master and told that my "mission is valuable to the Masters." It is true that all life which survives does so only because of valueto Masters, but my mission was especU ally valuable the message implied. For the first time in my life I wished that I could communicate to others outside of my specialty. Failing this, I mentally crosslink molecule. I took their naturally occurring iral form and stretched it by means of imaginary polarity at several intermediate points along each longitudinal axis, involuted the "strings" of contact and extrapolated to # places the mutative ejects I had induced upon the life forms resulting from each energy change! The Master watched me with, I suppose, a contentment that only a Master can have for the culmination of a long, successful screening. The Master was riding only as far as one of the planets of the star Etry. I bent to my study of life forms found in my computer "tape. I felt that I was ry beginning to fulfill my basic purpose in life. Several contiguous space objectives were reached, and perhaps a day or so was spent at each place. I enjoyed meeting different life forms, but none were of particular complexity. I soon realized that those forms which I had met were logical outcomes of all I had learned from my early genetic training. I began to feel that perhaps my learning rate would not be as rapid as originally anticipated. Meanwhile, the Antareans had prepared for our contiguous move to Stian. Since the key to application of contiguous space travel resided in how well the energy ball carried by the ship duplicated the dominant sources of energy points in space, occasionally impection of the mirrored universe, or unpredictable changes in the universe itself, caused the ship to arrive at some place totally imselected by anyone. The incidence of occurrence for this kind of thing is very, very low. But it happens. And for us, on this day, it happened. The Master's eye band turned bright pink. The Antareans scurried in profound study. I felt above all the hustle and bustle because any space which contained a Master was home for me. By use of several of the propulsive devices we arrived at a planet which seemed to be adequately situated for the support of life. The difference was soon apparent, however. This planet was mostly smelly swamp. We landed on a small rising where the Master, surrounded almost entirely by Protectors, had himself carried to the edges of the swampy water. Protectors I had seen K in tihe ship hut never with their full panoply of weapons. I believe the Protectors are the chief race used by the Masters to fit new, unscreened life forms when needed. The Histories tell that this race had the most formidable and progressively long history of battle for survival of any race known. One look at their nearly robot-like behavior, coupled with their nearly mechanistic weapons of offense or defense, would underline this. I wondered why the Master was studying the swamp so intently. It soon became obvious that the Master was screening every possible life form to determine if genes potentially dangerous to Masters were evident. Presumably, if such genes were available in level four or hier, this area was not yet under the sway of Masters. The first task, then, was to find level four or higher life. The Master returned to my side and resonated, "Go to the chief Antarean and request all pertinent data now known of this planet and its environment. If other data is needed, have it made available to you by one of the Antraeans. Deduce, then, the probability of level four life and its most probable whereabouts." T he Antareans were thorough. All the information was available and neatly catalogued. I already surmised the broad features of the probable path of life on this planet, but I was glad to get the detailed data packaged with such predsion by the Antareans. I set up the proper codes on my computer and, through a haif-sjmbiosis bom of years of training, communicated with this nearly intelligent entity. Between us, the computer and I, we resolved all of the most likely patterns. For the first time I spoke to the Master. "There are two and only two most probable sequences of life patterns dominate in our data. They are equally obvious from gross data which surrounds us. Level four life must exist in air or in the water. Since the Antareans have successfully surveyed the whole planet prior to landing, only the later possibility can be probable." I was confident that this had been evident to the Master from the start and so I continued. "In the past # years, homeostatic balances have been tending toward more land and less water surface exposure. However, the rate at which the change has occurred has caused the waters to absorb a greater than usual amount of organic materials. These, in turn, have caused most all of the water to be unclear or muddy throughout the planet. If level four beings are to exist, they would not yet have been able to adapt to an environment with little or no light. They would, therefore, exist wherever the water is the clearest. Presumably along the edges of underwater currents, no matter how sluggish, level four life might be found. "Furthermore," I continued, "they will unquestionably have some means of making light -- probably through utilization and domestication of underseas luminescent creatures. If the Antareans csS. make the proper chemical or infrared survey of large areas, distinguishing between the heat of planets as distinct from unusual statistical anomolies -- inhomogeneities of light sources -- I think you will find the life at one of these clusters." The Antareans not only could, but did. We soon located several hundred sources of unusual light activity along the edges of underwater currents. For the first time in my life I had been useful to a Masterl My eyes danced, my steps were lighter, and I now knew what "pleasure of living" implied. Ours was not a "contact" vessel so our mechanical probes were rather ineffective. After many trials, the Master sent several Protectors down in jury-rigged pressure suits. The Protectors, too, were eluded. Evidently only the Master, with his special sensory apparatus, could do the job. So the Master descended with all of his Protectors. I don't know what happened down below, and neither does any one else who remained on the surface. The surviving Protector knows, but he cannot tell us anything. After about three hours of waiting at the surface of the murky water, enormous geysers shot high in the air. They could only have been caused by weapons carried by the Protector. The geysers continued for a very long time and then, suddenly, the whole surface of the water turned inky black. All of the plant life at or near the surface of the water turned black and shriveled up on contact with whatever was coming to the top. It was like dropping acid on the leaf of a plant. The burned, black area became larger and, near the center of the black, a Protector, holding onto the small underseas vehicle of the Master, pushed to the surface in great haste. I could see the outer suit of the Protector becoming charred and black while, with great anxiety, I watched until I saw a small feeding orifice drop through a pitted hole in the Master's craft. W e were all thankful that the Master's life had been spared. The Master stayed in a state of extreme terror for nearly forty-tive days before ship life returned to normal. We orbited around the swampy planet for the wihole period, waiting for rational directions. Whenever the Master left his cubicle he always had his remaining Protector near him. He also very carefully avoided any reference to his experience. The Master called in the chief Antarean and asked him, directly, the best way to return to our portion of the universe. The Antarean's answer was immediate. It seems that any space-exploring vehicle faces the same problem in greater or lesser detail. An application of the inverse to the contra-positive gave, "If I am theres, then I am not therei, there#, there#,... , there." This seemed to work all right if one had only one correct energy image from the known universe in the energy IF bowl. In practice, however, it seemed to operate more like the positive feedback of a butterfly trying to fly "butterflied" all over the universe before we successfully located our known segment of the universe and subsequently landed at Stiah. This flight had given me experience in ways which I had not anticipated. I couldn't help but wonder why the Master hadn't asked the Antarean how to get home from the first. Why, also, was it so important for the Master to contact the life on the other planet when he was planning to go on to Stian anyway? With my analytical approach to life I couldn't help but summarize what I had learned: (#) Masters are not prime causes in the universe. (#) Only a relatively small pordoh of the universe is controlled by the Master Race. (#) Masters can be immobilized by terror, are cowardly and can be injured or even killed. (#) Masters are not very intelligent. And (#) I love Masters! Quite an education for a ten-yearold cowlike domesticated member of the human race! V B efore departing the ship on Stian I was again ushered into the Master's presence. This time the Carrier held him in such a way that his charred and blackened orifice tube dangled into a small cup of medicated fluids. Again I felt the cxhiliarating effects of the Master's scanning. 'Your race," he began, "has a penchant for creative work in the biologrcal sciences. Thousands of years ago we Masters determined to seek out a race such as yours. By careful selection and breeding you have become the first of the line who we believe to be capable of serving us in a very special way." The Personal Attendant removed some sort of decoration or instrument from the round ball which composed the ventral portion of the Master. My mouth bwame dry and my hands moist as I struggled, again, to formulate questions regarding his implication that I was one of many. The Master continued, "We Masters have a very special problem. As you have seen, while the volume of our living space increases as the cube of the radius of our expansion, our birth rate is now constant, since we utilize the whole planet surface for reproduction. But the rate of increase virtually halts any reasonable expansion of our space control. Since it is the Masters' place to rule all life, the problems must be solved!" I thought of Vanatta's peculiar life which came in threes and wondered if there might not be some relationship between Vanatta's inability to propagate away from her sun and similar difficulties for the Master Race. "A Master will discuss this problem with you in detail upon your completion of advanced training," he finished. I was pleased to note that whereever I traveled, the Master's admonition for complete cooperation preceded me. Stian's life forms were simple variants of caiibon, nitrogen, hydrogen and phosphorus. I checked gross form prediction from primary molecular structures for levels twenty, seven, four and two. No significant deviation from fact could be observed. The highest life level on Stian was two -- a life form generally weak in science but growing a sound technological base. The Stian himself was a highly chitinous form of life with clusters of clawlike fingers located in such a way that opposition of fingers was guaranteed for nearly every desired direction. I further found the Stians to be neither friendly nor unfriendly but simply behaving in ways that were directed by Masters. My hotel suite was all that could be desired for comfort. More comfortable than my training cubicle, yet supplied with all of the scientific aids which might be successfuMy utilized; it made me feel important. Stall I felt uneasy about my present quest for advanced knowledge. Somehow I knew that I should alter my plans by going directly to Vanatta. Yet, without the proper reason to justify my feelings, I could only bro. I brooded a good bit. Lacking a Master's way of scanning immediately to the core of the matter, I began to sense an incompleteness in my own ability to face up to simple problems. Yet wasn't I genius Genetic? Eventually I was able to phrase the problem in terms of my specialty. Teachers probably view my trip as "advanced" only in the sense of helping me to verify that the basic structures of genetic knowledge are IF sound. With their end m view, I had been guided through an itinerary which would sample various hypotheses. Whereas,  viewed "advanced" from the point of view of fing and solving more and more problems composed of challenges to the structure of genetic science. Briefly stated, my continued growth as a Genetic was in the facing of unknowns like Vanatta. Certainly I could not grow by following my present itinerary! Although exhausted both emotionally and physically from my earlier attempts to view this question from the point of view of a Master, I still rushed to change my direction of travel. A ship with full Antarean crew was made available to me as soon as my desires were communicated through a Grammer. VI I knew from Vanatta's # density as well as its gaseous envelope, opaque to all but ultraviolet, that life molecules here would tend to be both lighter and heavier in weight. Lighter because initial chance meetings of chemical elements would be favored for the lighter elements. Heavier, because each life molecule would need an opaque protective shield to prevent the ultraviolet radiation from disrupting the bonds which hold together the larger, complex molecules. I also knew that neither of these two effects was sufficient to cause the atypical behavior of Vanatta's life. I was eager to land, and sure that my choice for growth was correct. At Vanatta's spaceport, I grabbed my small ensemble of personal possesmons and quickly walked to lc cubicle with the colors of the rainbow. The QranMner proved to be another human like myself. He accepted my nod with one swift glance at my proffered yellow star -- the sign of the Genetic -- and then began to speak. "Your arrival has been prepared. Make yourself comfortable and look at the enclosed list of spifications. I have (been instructed by the Masters to see that you have every possible form of cooperation. I must admit that their overriding command is peculiar within my experience. Naturally #, as well as all others here on Vanatta, will do everydng required of us." Once again I was impressed with the sense of order and purpose brought to all plane ruled by Masters. All of us, human and alien, were certainly fortunate to be 'guided by such beings, bring us all to a full sense of direction, purpose and accomplishment for the Master! The Grammer continued, "When you have reviewed the preliminary specifications for your scientific needs here, and possibly made further selections, I would like to give you a brief summary of the services which are available to you." I looked at the list and, much to my surprise, saw nearly a complete laboratory as well as sundry supporting elements. In my own eyes, my stature as well as the importance of my mission increased. Only the location of the laboratory -- in the heart of a large city -- was possibly oontraindioated for my studies. Since the matter was connected to my work I found it easy to vocalize my feeling. The Grammer, tall and gnarled of appearce, accepted my request with characteristic patience. I was fitted with an Antarean spacesuit so that Imight move between human environment buildings and, much to my surprise again, the Grammer indicated that he was assigning himself to me for the duration of my stay. T he Grammer, whom I learned to call Grammer, directed our track vehicle to a hotel suitable for our temporary needs. Tingling with great excitement, I fell asleep with difficulty. My last thought was mixed in nature. I thought of the special problems of Vanatta which could be so exciting to a Genetic. I thought, too, of the continuous close worlg relationship between myself and the Grammer. Humans I had known, but never continuously for any length of time. Would this relatively young, perhaps # years old, Grammer exhibit traits of human behavior hitherto unobserved by me? Would the concept of "affection" be reborn by our close relationship? Neither the Histories nor my Teachers had prepared me for the experience! The next morning the Grammer and I rode a second track vehicle to a cubicle in the City of Uni which contained the equivalent of Vanatta government. Here, encumbered by our suits, we were escorted to a large wall map showing the contours vn of the planet as well as traffic tributary systems. Interpreted by Grammer, I learned that the network did not depict any pattern of "threes" os might he expected from the nature of Vanatta life. Grammer memorized the main features of the board and, between the two of us, we were able to locate several geographical positions which seemed to fit my requirements. I knew that Vanatta had no large ocean or lake systems but that pools of condensed vapors formed at the foot of most hills. Since Vanatta consisted mostly of rolling hills, most of its terrain was sprinkled with these condensations. I wanted to locate near one of these. I also wanted to be away from civilization as known in the cities of Vanatta, yet close enough to be able to observe and compare life in its different levels of complexity. Via hovercraft, Grammer and I searched until a satisfactory location was discovered. I expected to go back to our hotel cubicle and await word that some sort of primitive structure had been erected. Again this Grammer surprised me. He reached for the radio broadcasting equipment and, in several swift syllables, ordered work to begin. Within # minutes, large hovercraft were carrying pre-assembled structures, while other hovercraft directed their assembly. I can't believe that more than three hours passed between their arrival and the signal to Grammer that my modern laboratory was ready for immediate occupancy. I was, at first, quite optimistic about solving the genetic problem posed by Vanatta life. Wasn't I, by the admission of the Masters, the end product of a long line of humans bred for the sole purpose of being genius Genetic? Nearly five years passed before real progress was gained! My #year-old optimism (and egotism) soon evolved to a pattern of careful scientific thinking. As time passed, I learned to challenge more and more basic tenets taught to me by Teachers and my unshakeable teaching machine. Answers proved to be basic -- and simple! Grammer and I became quite close. I learned what "affection" meant and vowed, in my own subconscious way, to retain Grammer as my assistant throuout my service to Masters. On Grammer's part, his expression remained as nearly unreadable as ever. I knew, thou, that this was his genetic heritage just as my peculiarities were mine. I knew, too, that he shared my feelings of affection. The equivalent of one-celled life (or one-celled colony life) could only be found in an amorphous form on Vanatta. Between this life level twenty and the next level of nineteen, there was a jump which could not be accounted for by theory. Explanations of this gap was, I felt, the key to explaining, or at least leading to an explanation of the reason why Vanatta's life could not be reproduced away from their sun. Unlike our earth colonies, level twenty life ihere was not true cellular life. It seemed to ifail to produce the uivalent of our colony specialization. One-celled life, like the Chlamydomonas, begin the process on Earth. Pandorina was composed of eight cells embedded in a spherical matrix of jellylike material, yet none of these eight were much different from Chlyamydomonas. The combined beating of their flagella cause the entire colony to act in unison for locomotion. Another form, the Pleodorina, is composed of many more cells clustered in the shape of a hollow sphere; aside from the increased number of cells there is little difference between this one and Pandorina. One difference is striking, however; it is that the smaller cells, the soma, are sterile for reproduction purposes while the larger are not. So at this level some specialization has begun. A much larger aggregate is the Volvbx, a beautiful hollow spherical colony consisting of several thousand cells. Again, these resemble the Chlamydomonas in most respects, although there are tiny bridges be tween individuals which tend to lock them together more securely than the loose jelly or other forms. Almost all of the cells are alike, although there are some that are larger and have a different appearance. These are reproductive cells. Some are bundles of small bodies, the sperm or male cells, while others are large ovoid egg cells. These special sex cells reproduce the colony by a sexual process where the sperm are released into water, where they swim to and unite with the egg. This subsequently becomes a zygote which overwinters in a heavy-walled case. Other reproductive cells merely divide and move into the hollow of the sphere where they become small colonies, known as daughter colonies. These eventually burst out, destroying the mother and becoming adult colonies themselves. Two important events occur in this gradual association of cells. First, similar cells aggregate into a mass which apparently succeeds better. That is, there is strength in union. Second, division of labor is initiated among the cells, some becoming sterile and functioning only in locomotion, whereas others retain the primitive condition of colonyreproduction. From here, differentiation of the soma cells continues in various directions toward greater and greater complexity, and thus up the long trail to such hi'y intricate forms as Masters and their servants. V anatta life, contrariwise, had jumped from lifelike chemicals at level twenty to relatively high forms of life. Vanatta had these key peculiarities to untangle: #. Life would not reproduce beyond its own sim. #. Level twenty life consisted of a homogeneous, soupy, lifelike chemical. #. From level twenty, life jumped to level six with no apparent intermediate steps. #. Level six life consisted of six basic similar patterns, any three of IF iwlhidh could reproduce its own kind as well as twenty-seven other apparently unrelated patterns. #. All thirty-three forms could reproduce, by reproduction in "ithrees," to produce any of the others in an unknown or unpredictable manner. #. A basic reproduction unit is any three life-level six entities. I decided, after nearly two years of fruitless effort, that it was not only the Masters who were ignorant. One Master had told me that Vanatta life was incapable of being reproduced beyond its sun. I had acoted this in the way it was tendered -- that is, the direct influence of some mysterious energy of Vanatta's sun determined and remained as a vital agent of Vanatta life. The question which seemed to me to display my own ignorance was this: Did life of Vanatta really find it impossible to reproduce away from the sun? Or was it merely a case of absence of supporting symibiotes required for the breeding process? When the answer was reached I compared my intelligence unfavorably with the intelligence of a Master! We, Grammer and I, established the basic ecology of a small Vanatta mammal ced a Bra. After several months of close observation in a closed environment we shipped three Bra to another solar system. In due time we received the news that the Bras had brought forth three apparently unrelated mammals -- yet to be found in our list of thirty-three. Hindsight is easier than foresight. Still, I, genius Genetic, deserved all criticism for this, my first research error. Never again would I be so truth, whether made by book or Master. Everyone knew that Vanatta life could not reproduce beyond its own star. Yet the truth lay somewhere in the ecology of the life form, not in peculiarities of its star! vm M y success in reproducing the Bras away from Vanatta's sun caused reverberation throughout the space of the Masters. This time, ten Masters scanned Grammer and me simultaneously. I shivered both with fear and with anticipation. I couldn't help but feel buoyed up by the personal attention of so many Masters. Yet my analytical talents continued their ever-searching classification of fact, and I noted, for the first time, their similarity of appearance. Each Master was a small ball-like object with trailing feeding orifices, slender, tapered simple of construction. The light-sensitive tissue forming a sniall circle around the crest of their orblike body faded through pink, red, jeen and blue, reflecting, I believ, the state of the 'emotions." Eiach had the same color of neutral gray, laced delicately with a twin diamo-shaped pattern where was found the primary sensing organ for their scanning functions. I counted the personal retinues and found each Master with Carrier, Personal Attendant and six or seven other specialities. Nearly # lifeforms of one type or another trailed behind or held the Masters or fed them. Certainly this was an impressive example of cooperation of life foimsi This in itself was justification for dominance of the Masters! One Master spoke: "You have been bred for your job. Therefore, what you do is pleasure. But we Masters have waited for many generations for the promise of solution to our breeding and consequent space dominance problem. We have come to commend you for your efforts on our behalf." I knew that once again the Masters were jumping to the wrong conclusion. I broke in hastily. 'T have not solved Vanatta's problems, Master." The speaking Master's eyb band turned bright pink as he replied equally hastily, "But you have bred Bras outside of this system, haven't you?" "Yes," I replied. "But all I've shown is that the life of higher forms depends in some manner on its own lower forms. And that these forms are not equivalent to others found elsewhere." I tried a new approach. "Masters," I said, "I cannot explain what I must. But before I can accomplish my basic purpose in life, I must finish my training here on Vanatta. I am only now beginning to mature in this respect." Reluctantly, it seemed, the Masters acceded to my request to postpone work on their problem. Once again Grammer and I were left to our own devices. Life continued, and I made slow but steady progress. Grammer enjoyed music, books and reading his professional Grammer literature. I leed, slowly, to enjoy a slightly alcoholic dri each night with Grammer. We would sit beside the music computer, drink in hand, and listen with pleasure to the various permutations and combinations formed. At least Grammer enjoyed the sounds. I enjoyed sitting next to Grammer and the feel of companionship which was denied so many of my race. I Imew I wasn't disloyal to the Masters since I was doing exactly what they wanted me to do. Anyway, it would have been impossible to be disloyal! DC T he second breakthrough occurred when I compared the nucleus of any of Vanatta's life at each level against that of Earth cells. Of course this kind of comparison had been made before, but the conclusions reached were not correct. I noticed that all of Vanatta life forms, except the lowest "soupy" level twenty, contained more than one set of genes. The "breeding in three" phenomenon turned out to be directly related to the fact that exactly three different sets of genes were contained in each cell. This puzzled me for some time, until I remembered that back in the twentieth century, two British scientists. Dr. Henry Harris and Dr. John F. Watkins, had demonstrated that cells from different animals, including man, can be fused and that the new hybrid cells are able to live and multiply. IF At that time, on my native Earth, living comibinations of hybrid cells were formed from specks as diverse as hens and rabbits, and men and mice. I remembered this information well not only because it marked a significant milestone in genetic research, but because I would normally be exposed to all available information, whether important or trivial, in the course of my training. I could even remember that Dr. Harris reported his work in a publication known as Discovery in April, #. I was never taught what a "magazine" was, however. A close study of the "soupy" level twenty life revealed the interesting information that there were perhaps complete genes scattered throughout which contains the coded heritable information which is passed on from which is the "messenger" carrying these codes, each contributed their own unique effect upon the cell body. A given cell foimd in this "soupy" mixture would often contain as many as ten different gene structures. Since each structure could "tell" the cell body what to do without "interference" from other unlike structures, life necessarily retained its primitive flavor. Under such unintegrated conditions, life could not develop beyond this stage! Since there are no incompatible mechanisms, like those which result in the destruction of tissue or organ grafts exchanged between different individuals, the composite cells carry out life functions in an apparently integrated manner. The instructions which the genes of one "species" in the hybrid cell transmit are understood and acted upon by the cytoplasm of other "species." The vehicle for this activity on Vanatta was twofold: A peculiar form of virus which appeared to be pervasive, endlessly, throuout the texture of Vanatta's atmospheric blanket was weakened or killed by the strong ultraviolet radiation extant throughout Vanatta daylight hours. The dead or weakened viral material generally found itself mixed or diffused throughout the ecological system -- particularly whenever condensation of Vanatta's gaseous blanket occurred. The viral material, although dead, in turn performed in almost exactly the same manner as in Dr. Harris's original work. He exposed dead virus to cells of different species. The cells clumped together. The membranes dissolved at the points of contact and their cytoplasms merged. When the nuclei of different cells merged, the new cell contained several nuclei of different species which was called a heterokaryon. The cell remained alive and continued to function, times the nuclei fused to form a larger nucleus, and sometimes they divided to form several daughter cells. Here on Vanatta, primitive cells evolving from their own chance encounters, when in contact with this peculiar virus, dissolved at their points of contact, and the result was a primitive hybrid life form. The problem of "threes" was evidently solved. Yet the mystery of the great jump from level twenty to level six remained. D uring the next year I greatly increased my challenges of the pimciples which maike up "genetic science." At the same time, I greatly increased my disdain for the absoluteness of any theory. In the meantime I learned several new things from Grammer. It seems that Grammer had once talked with a female of our species. I had not really thout about this aect of life before. It was true that our life form required two for reprodnotioh. But the Masters had long ago instituted a bank of ova and plasma from which they supplied their technicians and which sufficed for their needs. Since growth of the fertilized ovum was carefully controlled by the technicians until "birth," no need for such ancient concepts as "mother," "father" and so forth existed. I was such a baby. And from birth on, I was subject to either nurses who were trained to provide for only the ordinary processes necessary to biological growth; or I was subject to the Teachers. The concept of "female" had not ever entered my environment or my thoughts until placed there by Grammer. The closer I approached to fifteen years of age the more interest I seemed to feel in the concept. It was clear that Grammer had long had such an interest. I saw him look with feeling of melancholy whenever he discussed the experience of communicating with and for a female. When Grammer was taking his final educationtrip throughout Master's ace he was ordered to accompany a group of Protectors. They were on their way to a planet which was located deep within the space controlled by the Masters but which had not been communicated with for several generations. As a matter of fact, the existence of the planet had been lost for all this time. Normally the Master who controls each planet is responsible for whatever governmental activities are required between systems. In this instance, the Master had neglected to communicate for some time. Meanwhile, someone whose normal day-to-day work was coordinating activities between thousands of planets had overlooked this one. Ent, by name, was Earthlike in flora and fauna. It had been colonized by Masters with human metal miners to serve as the raw material source for ccper. A Protector ship, tretuiming from duties having to do with expanding the boundaries of Master's space, accidentally rediscovered the planet. According to the Antarean space catalogue, Ent was a rediscovery. The first ship to land on Ent was attacked without warning by level one humans. Except for the Protector's nucleonic shield, all would have been pulverized when the first bomb exploded. Subsequent police action by the Protectors soon decimated most of the population, leaving only a small, hard-core group hiding in bombproof shelters under the main cities. Eventually the Protectors succedre ed in introducing a non-lethal gas into these caverns, thus capturing all of the remaining humans intact. These consisted predominantly of unscreened women and children. The children, of course, were put to death instantly, since the Masters did not need any more raw stock of this type. The women were saved for questioning. Grammer was given the job of questioning the women and of translating for the Protectors. The story which he learned was this: Generations ago, a Master had entered a deep copper mine which also contained strata of radioactivity. Although much of the minin g work was automate, this Master had the unusual desire to experience life under tons of earth crust. He, his Carrier and his Personal Attendant followed the automated tracks without being aware of the radiation hazard. The Master had his "picnic" below surface, returned to his regxilar home cubicle and lived life normal to all outward appearances. As the years went by, however, the scanning mechanism of the Master deteriorated swiftly. When the Master thought he was "reading" one thing, the facts were that he was reading another. Under this unfamiliar condition of faulty screening, a group of human deviants, antipathic to the order of Masters, was accidentally born and survived. These, in turn, took advantage of the Master's condition and rapidly turned all technology toward their own ends. Eventually the Master was killed and the planetwide government taken over by the deviants. Only , by equally unlikdy accident -- the loss of space coordinates -- the existence of Ent forgotten by the rest of civilization. Grammer retold this story to me many times. Each time he would finish with a descriptioh of a "cute little blue-eyed brownhead" who seemed to affect him in some very unusual way. He didn't actually cry when he thought of her, but he came close to it. I still didn't understand why he felt this way about such purely hereditary traits as "blue eyes," "brown hair," "red lips," "nice figure," and so on; but I did understand his feelings over loss of companionship! After many months of interrogations, Grammer was present when all remaining human life on Ent was destroyed. I believe that his enigmatic disposition must stem from that day! X seemed, I fed varying axioms about life to my computer. These axioms opposed, in either a major or minor way, the fundamentals about life which I had learned as a student in the training cubicle. This day, nearly five years from my initial arrival on Vanatta, I challenged the derivable consequences of the first goal of life -- to survive! Life usually can be thought of as requiring an accretion of life to life. That is" life begets life, and if the quantity of life it begets is not greater, by some small fraction at least, life does not survive in that form. I challenged this assumption in a very slight way. When life increases, space is consumed. But this attribute is considered a secondary manifestation of the fact that life begets life -- and increases in number. The fact that a # rate of compounded increase in numbers of life units results in, say, # compounded increase in space utilization is definitely not considered a basic postulate upon which to build a science called genetics. That is, one doesn't postulate the major goal of life as to "consume" space! Yet the consequences of "to survive," when taken in context of the Vanatta problem, led directly to consideration of this new axiom. In turn, consequences of the acceptance of this as a fundamental axiom led directly to my final solution of the Vanatta problem. Many years ago, according to the Histories, a human cargo called the Pythagoreans tried to reduce the whole universe to number and geometry. One of the problems which they developed was to imagine a plane figure which could be used repetitively in the plane to fill all of the plane and leave no points unfilled and without overlap. One such figure turned out to be an equilateral triangle. Another problem was to find a three-dimensional figure which could be used repetitively to fill all of space. One such figure is the tetrahedron; another is the cube. Only five regular solid figures have this property. In the unrecorded past of Vanatta, chance combinations of chromosomal materials finally 'provided a three-way structure which was truly integrated at more than the primitive level necessary to sustain life for an individual cell. Even my advanced science of genetics, aid by my computer, would be hard pressed to predict the many potential life forms which each nuclei, of the resulting hybrid cells, might have propagated if directed by the course of normal evolution. Chance combinations had produced a particular family of gene structures which not only sustained level six life, but whose configuration provided an internal protective sheath which prevented additional nuclei from entering their successful form of hybridization. The sheath followed an elementary rule of the cell to protect itself under siege of the viral material so peculiar to Vanatta. The consequences of this protection was that three nuclei were free to pursue their own joint evolutionary path throughout the ages. This combination, and only this combination, could have been responsible for higher levels consisting of thirtythree "varieties." Naturally, too, "breeding" was required in "three," for, unless all three components were present to share chromosomal materials, no life was possible except in rudimentary form. Vanatta life was truly hybridized yet could only breed true as a hybrid! Orammer and I had solved the problem of Vanatta. I was fifteen IF rears of age. I was now much more confident of my problem-solving abilityl XI I believe that any of the servants of the Masters are raised in a sheltered environment. Mine was particularly so. But even if this were not true, there would be no need for guards or special personnel trained to protect other beings. Except for the Protectors, of course. Crime was unknown, consequently prisons unneeded. Each being had his place in the well organized structure of the Master Race, and if the being did not fulfill his allotted function a new personality was reared as a replacement. This, naturally, was one of the great benefits which the Master Race had given to other beings including humanity -- peace and orderl Grammer and I finished packing our vital records and other needs in preparation for departure to the planet of the Masters. Simultaneously, it seemed, we realized that never before had we heard discussed, or mentioned ourselves, the location of the planet of Masters. In the normal course of this kind of travel preparation we would have relayed our request to the proper travel specialist, who in turn would prepare our schedule in some detail. This time, oddly, none of the travel sjpecialists could give us any idea where the Master home star was. Nor could they prepare a schedule. Grammer carried on the bulk of communication as was his duty. But even he began to despair when by evening we were still no closerto our objective. Although more time might be involved in locating a Master, gaining his attention and presenting our little problem, it began to appear that this was the only possible way. With no thought to the unusualness of receiving an unexpected visitor, Grammer answered our door summons, deep in thought. Both of us were shocked by the rapidity with which several dozen Protectors surrounded us. With obvious professional detachment they forced us into our environmental suit without allowing us the courtesy of an explanation. Our final destination turned out to be an antiseptically clean cell -- one for each of usi Although we were fed, watered and ibedded prqperly each day, Grammer could raise no single word from any guard. I, of course, could not have formulated anything understandable to such people. I learned what it meant to be lonesome -- to miss associations with Grammer. I was exceedingly pained to ibe denied the privilege of serving the Masters. I lost track of time. I became despondent.' I lost weight and my appetite. Soon my waking periods blended into each other and into my sleeping periods. I vegetated! A rousal and consciousness returned to me almost immediately upon sensing the Master's usual scanning process. Strangely enough, my analytical functions fixed upon the Master's Carrier  -- measuring the height from the floor to the position in which the Master was carried -- and then upon the usual retinue which trailed behind the Master. The particular Master who entered my cell looked exactly like all of the other Masters which I had seen. Then the Master spoke. "I have already talked with the Grammer. I understand that you have completed your studies on Vanatta and are now ready to help us with our problem." "Yes," I said with great surprise. "We Masters are so important to the continuity of an orderly rule in all the universe, and we are so few, that we feel it vitally necessary to protect the sole source of our breeding. We did not distrust you, since it is obvious from our scanning that you and Grammer are loyal and always shall be. But we long ago learned from the Protectors several ways by which our beneficial rule can be placed in jeopardy." I realized that I was getting an explanation for our treatment. Needless to say, I listened very carefully, hoping to hear a rational explanation. "On rare occasions. Masters become sick through accident or radiation in which case our scanning sense becomes unreliable. The product of such an unfortunate experience might be the birth and growth of life inimical to our kind. If any such knew the source of our birth, they might easily destroy us. Also, as you know, there are areas of the universe at the boundaries of the Master rule where races live which have not had the benefit of our kind. Should these races learn of our source by those such as yourself, who are of good intention, they too might destroy our race." This explanation seemed to explain all except the reason for placing us incommunicado. I waited to hear the rest. "A visit to our home planet is a one-way trip," the Master stated. "Also there are certain operations which must be performed on your brain." When I heard the Master speak of this, my first impulse was fear -- fear that any operation to my brain might endanger the very faculties which the Master needed to solve his problem. I was soon relieved, however. "We insert a small cartridge of explosive at the base of your occipital bone. If, by some unusual chance, you are fifty miles or further away from the surface of our planet, certain secret carrier waves will automatically explode the cartridge." Upon signal from the Master, the Personal Attendant brought a rosecolored, scented water near to one of his orifices. A small amount of the water was taken in and discharged. Only a slight change in color to the eye band could be observed during this activity. "Oh, yes!" the Master continued. "We congratulate you on your successful solution to Vanatta's problem. We are eagerly awaiting similar solutions on our planet." I never did receive a completely rational reason for our treatment. Lacking evidence to the contrary, I IF had to add one more to the list of characteristics of the Master Race. They were frightened, paranoiac foims of life! awakening from the operating table my compulsion to analyze awoke first. But, strangely, I did not think of my duty to the Masters. I first thought, "How pretty are those gray eyes!" The surgeon who installed the capsule in my brain had pure black hair, gray eyes and a beautiful curving smile. Her laugh made me laugh, and her frowns made me frown. I tingled whenever she touched me while performing her chores. I began to understand about Grammer's feeling toward such "purely hereditary traits" as eyes, lips and cheeks! She was a Surgeon and knew some genetics. Within limits, we could communicate. With great surprise I (found other ways of communicating then through manmade symbols. She responded to my feelings. And, blessed with both Grammer and Surg (as I called her), I returned to my alloted work with renewed energy. My initial view of Ed, the Master's planet, was by standard track car. At Grammer's suggestion, I requested, and got, Surg assigned as a member of my research team. Surg, Grammer and I arranged for a complete planetary review of the surface of Ed. Always a large assortment of extra-Ed life waited upon us. Everywhere there were life forms performing personal, technical or administrative duties for the Masters. A weird sort of femlike form planed our Ed trip. It took the combined services of two other communicator specialists to relay between the language of Earth and the language of the "fern." I couldn't help but wonder, why, in this instance, a Master couldn't perform this chore for which they were so well suited? Ed turned out to be nothing but cubicle after cubicle from pole to pole. I had never given it thought before, but it was easy to surmise where the basic pattern of cubicles and track cars had originated. They had been exported from Ed to all other Master-controlled planets. Yet I would still bet that they were not original with the Masters. There was no obvious advantage to be gained from any particular location. So we merely selected at random and began building the organization of supplies and helpers that we would need. Several weeks after our arrival Protectors met us with the request to accompany them. Again no questions were answered, and we were summoned into the Directing Hall of Masters. The Hall of Masters was not really a hall but rather another standardsized cubicle, arranged internally in such manner that nearly any sort of life form could move in or out while waiting on the pleasure of the Master. Flexibility seemed to be the keynote. Where before I had seen os many as ten Masters with perhaps ten or fifteen personal attendants each, here I saw each Master with as many as fifty attendants. Since eight governing Masters comprised the ruling body, there were perhaps # personal attendants weaving in and, out or standing about waiting for the significant wave of an orifice or screened message. T he hall became silent as the Protectors guided Grammer, Surg and myself in. The leading spokesman for the Masters was one of the most wrinkled balls of gray flesh I had yet seen. I supposed that this meant that he was a very old specimen of his life form. I noted the slow motion of his dangling orifices as he motioned for his Carrier to lower him closer to my speaking level. Also, his eye band was predominantly ridged instead of smooth as found in the younger Masters, Once again I relaxed with pleasure under the careful scanning of this oldster. He spoke. "Congratulations on your success on Vanatta. We expect equally successful research from you here on Ed. We are the governing body of all life, everywhere! Our problem has concerned us for many ages, and we look forward to its solution from you. Can you give us an expected date of solution?" It was not only The suddenness of his question which caused me to appear in shock. Here before me were the true beneficial rulers of all "civilized" space. Here was the ruling body which made literally thousands of races live in peace and harmony. By birth and training -- instinctively -- I knew I was in the presence of the greatest life form next to God! But, more than that, I was being asked to present "near-God" with a "date of solution" to His problem! I was tongue-tied. Without the special scanning ability of the aged Master, I never would have recovered sensibly from the meeting. He recognized and immediately responded to my communications difficulty. "You are a specially prepared servant of the Masters," he said. "Your job will be done expeditiously, I am sure. I am decreeing that, except for the direct will of a Master, your every wish shall have first priority. As you already know, it is impossible to continue our planned control of space when the volume of space increases as the cube of the, radius of our expansion, yet Master breeding increases only as the square of the surface of our breeding area -- now a constant. When you have solved our problem for us, we will then be able to continue our beneficial expansion into all of space." He paused long enough to dip the tips of each of his eight orifices into eight different colored bowls of scented water. I was fascinated to watch eight different attendants scurry in and out with the bowls. The Master continued. "Even though you are a perfectly loyal researcher, we feel it necessary to charge you with an official statement as to your duties on our behalf. In short, you are hereby instructed -- indeed commanded -- to improve our racer I was made completely speechless by such an overriding command, especially when it was reinforced by IP the Master's ipeculiar scannmg talent. I nearly begged to some mown higher being that I ould not fail this enlarged and personally assigned, nearly sacred objective! A pplication of modem technology to optimization of the production of Masters here on Ed was amazingly efficient. With the exception of a small percentage of cubicles, all other Ed cubicles consisted of nearly automated breeding vats for the Masters. Their breeding limitation was approximately that of the area of the surface of their planet -- a square factor -- since nearly all of the planet was covered by breeding vats. 'Each breeding cubicle consisted essentially of a large "swimimiig pool" about # feet deep. In tne pool was a balanced biotic community. All nssary ingredients for supporting Ed's equivalent of diatoms, algae, amoeba, protozoa and other essentia life forms were present up to, and including, the worm fish. Acutally, each form of life was there to contribute in its own way a necess ecological balance, thus providing an environment proper for the growth of the wormfish. The wormfish was the necessary host for the Master! Each fertile cell of the Master contained a single flagellum which lay in a fold of the outer membrane throuout its length. It formed an undulating membrane which was effective in propelling the tiny cell through blood or other body were introduced to the closed ecology supporting the worm fish, and inevitable encounters by the with the fish resulted in the supplying of a proper host for the Master cdls. Each fertile cell found its way to the internal organs of the womifish. Perhaps two hundred cells could be nourished in all. The blood of the fish acted as both source of food and convenient sewage disposal system. Once in the presence of a suitable spot, the flagellum changed to a rasp hook which, once driven into several of the wormfish cells, could not be easily withdrawn. Hangmg by this hook, each fertile Master cell 'began its growth and transformation. First a tight membrane was constructed around itself, impervious to all except food of the proper chemical and physical properties. Second, within this membrane, the cell nucleus began to grow in size. A light fiber strand of nerve material extended from each chromosomal protruberance to form eight rudimentary pro-tentacles. Other than modification of other chromosomal materials to form brain tissue and a circular, light-sensitive band, the only other two major 'growths were the development of extremely primitive muscular tissue and a very primitive pro-stomach. With fourteen days of growth, the first fertile cell reaches a kind of maturity. The membrane cracks open, and the living but miniature Master swims out. Through the use of its unique scanning sense it immediately locates and kills every Other Master cell hanging from the wormfish. The one remaming miniature Master then swims to the major control locations of the wormfish's brain. Here the Master establishes both home and control over the activities of the fish, pending its further growth. WTien a point is finally reached where the "tumor" aggravates the host beyond its normal biological limits, the Master, with profoimd foresight, arranges to be evacuated just prior to the death of the host. In the new environment consisting chiefly of water and dissolved minerals, the Master finds no competition for survival. He absorbs his nourishment in the same manner as before, using water instead of blood, and dissolved minerals instead of more complex food structures which were found in the blood. No real intelligence is discerned in the little Master until it reaches sufficient size to store energy molecules. At this time it instinctively leaves its watery environment where the servants of the Masters begin its formal training -- a training program dedicated solely to how to be master of the universe! I f my assignment were still that of increasing the rate of breeding rather than that of "improving the Master race," I am sure the technical difficulties would have been elementary. As a matter of fact I speculated as to why others had not attempted to transplant the requisite bio-system on other planets in other solar systems. Was it their characteristic paranoia which prevented them from seeking obvious solutions? Was it their complete lack of trust in others, coupled with their extremely tight security precautions? Or was it simply their characteristic self-inflated ego which prevented them from viewing themselves from any other viewpoint than "special" or "difficult?" Whatever the reason, I was thankful that my Masters had determined to expand my role to "improve" their race; for, with this more difficult assignment, I was sure that Grammer, Surg and myself would have far more occasion to stay together! What constitutes "improvement" of a race? Certainly, from the human point of view, the need for companionship, the eternal struggle to solve problems and the extreme adaptability of our genetic plasma to historical change are all plusses. But, what about the tremendous computing ability of the Antareans which contributes to their dominance in space? Or their stress-free exo-skeleton, so cleverly designed to compensate for rapid and varied changes in gravity? What about the long-lived, nearly classic example of the adaptability of Earth insects? Or the tremendous weapons-forming and fighting ability of the Protectors? Which of the nearly endless characteristics possible to life should be acquired by our Masters? Which, too, of the characteristics now dominant in the Masters should be retained and which masked? I redoubled our efforts. Even though the highest technical skill IP was ours for the asking, the greatest of computer technology was ours (for projecting possible characteristics from change of nucleus to final adult life form), the highest of loyalty was ours to our duty, I was soon convinced that a Genetic genius is not so very bright! It is one thing to merely solve a technical problem but another thing entirely to define "best" characteristics for the life of a whole race. Especially difficult was such choice because I knew the Masters were virtually perfect in themselves. It was at this point in my work that both Surg and Grammer became deathly sick. For the first time in my young life I realized what it was to be alone. At first, however, I wasn't too disturbed. When all efforts to find a human Medic on Ed proved fruitless, I tried other forms of life which might be competent in this field. When this effort, too, failed, I appealed to the Masters. Every possible door was opened on my behalf. A Medic was found in another solar system and brought to Ed within forty-eight hours. My relief proved premature, however! O n the third day of the Medic's arrival, he approached me with an alien Grammer. "I am terribly sorry," was his message, "but there is no knowledge which I have which can effect a cure. As a matter of fact, I am not the least bit familiar with their form of sickness nor its cure. I have checked with my colleagues on Earth, and they concur. Other than intravenous feeding, there is nothing more I can do." My world spun! Never since the days of my imprisonment on Vanatta for desiring information on the home world of the Masters had I ever experienced such despondency. I became alternately despondent and exuberant. I was not rational. Yet the struggle to survive which must lie dormant in all human seed awoke to push me to greater and greater heights of rationalization. I rationalized that since I was only competent in the field of genetics, I would help in the only way I knew how, by applying my knowledge to their sickness. This was much like saying that since I was an expert bricklayer, I would lay bricks, expertly, until their sickness was cured! I selected samples of both Surg's and Crammer's cells. Each was in a deep coma. I studied the chromosomal materials. The first look made me doubt my senses completely. "Perhaps," I thought, "it is only a clumsy laboratory error." Their genes were nearly identical. Furthermore, there were twice too many. I selected sample after sample under the utmost control techniques; yet still the analysis was the same. About the time that I began to doubt the validity of the whole of biologic genetics, I too passed into unconsciousness ! Three weeks later I was told that I had fallen over the sick bodies of Surg and Grammer, that Surg and Grammer had awakened nearly one week earlier than I, and that nothing the Medic had done for any of us was of any real help. Again an waking my first thought was on the beauty of the female of IF my species. Surg was feeding me intravenously. Her first words surprised me. She said: "Good morning, my love! Can you discuss the nature of true hypothalamic replacement or the parsing of a verb?" My answer surprised me even more. I said, "Why, yes, I can!" Why was I not tongue-tied? Why was I not restricted to thoughts of my specialty? For the first time in my life I was able to contemplate, with ease and imderstanding, subject matter not necessarily related to my own. It seemed natural to think in the areas of medicine or communications. Prior to my sickness I could discuss subjects only if they became my own -- through disguise, deception or actuality. Needless to say I was appalled at the subjective changes in me. I was even more appalled when I discovered similar changes in Grammer and Surg. We were like three school children who have just learned that holidays are forthcoming. Or, better yet, we were like three deaf#lindnmutes who have suddenly been given the gift of hearing, sight and speech. Three worlds to explore, each of comfortable fit like homeworld -- yet each was new, novel and infinite in nature! For each of us could understand and communicate within the framework of one another's competence. We foresaw the day in the future when each of us would become Grammer, Surgeon and Genetic combined. For now, we were highly specialized and highly trained humans with large appetites and newly bom capacities for learning in these allied fields of knowledge. Somehow, somewhere, we had been improved as individuals. Here lay the germ of a clue which was sorely needed to perform our duties toward our Master. Once again we set to work. This time I was hot too surprised to find that the chromosomal material from cells of each of us were very similar and represented three times as many as normal. Here was an obvious source of our change. Through screening by Masters each of us was the product of extremely fine selection for attributes desired by the Masters. The very process of this fine screening caused each of us to be 'se idiots," since genetic characteristics necessary for crosscommunication amongst ourselves were lost Yet, obviously, any race like the human would consider such a characteristic as the ability to understand one another as basic. Now, through some yet to be deciphered fluke related to our joint illness, we had (become hybridized so that gene material of each was found in the cfeUs of each. Our cytoplasmic tissue was capable of responding to the joint, yet integrated, directions from each new nucleus. We had become, through accident, a hybridized polyploid! Sometimes gametes possess a diploid instead of the usual haploid number in some cases even three, four or five extra sets. Organisms possessing more than the diploid number are called polyploids. They may be larger and more vigorous tiban the usual diploid, hence polyploids are often deliberately generated -- especially in the plant world. Polyploid flowers are usually larger than normal ones. Very little was known about polyploidy in animals, probably because it occurred so infrequently. We were a living example of the possibility of induced heterokaiyonization within the same species! The three of us, now working together as a nearly perfect functioning research team, soon traced the source of our strange infection to viral matter which had followed us from Vanatta. The very same viral material which caused the dissolving membrane of Vanatta cells, thus opening a cellular door for other nuclei and consequent heterokaryonization, had followed us to Ed. Here, we three had unconsciously exposed ourselves to it, each providing the cellular material necessary for its first performance on Ed. Once the agent of our illness was identified, we easily cultured the virus in a protect environment while taking the precaution to sterilize everything elsa Once again we set to work on the problem posed us by the head of the Master Race -- to improve the Masters! I soon realized that my former "wise idiot" capability, no matter how technologically perfect, nor how logically accurate, was the wrong, avenue of approach for "improving" the Master Race. Only on a philosophical plane would their ends be met. Certainly life which was so successful that it was the "master" of aH within its bio)here was already "improved." For if the basic "to survive" were the (Mily criterion for life, the Master Race had met this god on its first trial. Its second trial of life had yet to be offered! However, it took no genetic genius to realize that capacity to adapt was almost nil in the Master Race. Further improvement was needed in that direction. Secondly, Masters needed hundreds of thousands of supporting life forms merely to allow them to be comfortable. Addiwere destroyed just to insure their dominance. Was this economical for either Masters or nature? Perhaps this could be a second direction for improvement. Finally, in spite of the tremendous gift which nature had bestowed to the Masters -- the gift to know one's "neighbor" as well as oneself -- the Master remained an unsocial form of life. Whatever improvements were made must take this into account. Both the means and the coded improvement goals were scientifically prepared for completion of our assignment. I prepared large quantities of Vanatta's special hybridizing virus while Surg and Grammer sought for, and received, some rare human protoplasm which had been laboratory-grown prior to Earth's first visit by the Master Race. No screening had pre-selected genetic materials from this tissue culture. IF Probably it was the only human protoplasm in existence for which this could be sauL Now the wotk became one of straight genetic engineering. Jmt prior to the introduction of fertile Master cells to their breeding tanks, I mixed the Vanatta viral material as wdl as growths of human protopilasm. As was to be expected, each fertile cell wall dissolved at its point of contact with the attenuated viral material, and, as a consequence, each human cell introduced its nucleus in the fertile cell. I didn't expect a human cell to exist under the pending environment, therefore those cells which received the nucleus of the Master cell were unimportant. The newly hybridized cells were then dumped into each breeding vat where, hopefully, a new kind of behavior would ensue. Fortunately most of the equipment was automated planetwide, and we could accomplish the whole job in a reasonably short time. Our second phase began with the identification and treatment of all nutrients used by the Masters. Since this consisted of only eight colors of water saturated with different mixtures of anions and cations required for sustaining Master metabolism, we found no obstacle in adding our hybridizing mixture. Our third phase consisted of preparing and shipping small packages of this same mixture along with proper instructions for its introduction to Master nutrients everywhere. The Protectors and their ships began a continuous work shift so that each Master got his share. Our work was done. There remained only the clerical task of following up on the predicted progress of e great racial improvement program.  Perhaps our lifetime would not see its end. But I was sure that someone among my distant descendants would know its end -- and remember its beginning. For I was determined to leave sufficient notes so that posterity would know what to look for as well as to explain why so many different life forms are scattered throughout such a large volume of space. XV I am sure that the complete obedience of all live forms within the biosphere of the Masters, as well as the tremendous efficiency with which each form served the Master, combined to enable us to rapidly service everyone of the Master Race. I wasn't too sure of the end results in the case of adult hybridizing of human characteristics with Master characteristics. Here early training as well as pre-conditioning of intellect served to mask biological predictions. We first observed the actual results on Ed; A coma occurred for each Master just as with Grammer, Surg and myself. I had selected human characteristics long known to be dominant in hiding psi phenomena. These organelles served effectively to hide the ability of each Master to screen. I reasoned that the very characteristic which most contributed to the successful domination of otlier life forms was also the same chamacteristic which prevented Masters from improving their race. For, without ability to screen, need arose to seek out other solutions to survival problems. With need for other solutions to survival came opportunity for adaptation of successful mutations. With adaptation of successful mutations came "improvement." And I was sure that "improvement" could only be measured in terms of successful capacity to adapt to current needs. This, then, in simple form was my chief reason for hybredizing undifferentiated, unscreened, human protoplasm with Master protoplasm. In the case of the adult Master, each responded in a similar manner once their screening mechanism was gone and consciousness returned. Each would roll into a small ball and shiver endlessly. Often its tentacles would combine together and form a hook which was repeatedly stabbed into the air. It appeared to be a complete regression back to its parasitic existence within the wormfish. I wasn't too concerned with this part of the experiment, however. No Master would die and all would continue to be taken care of as long as they lived. Surely disorganization would take place in the Master's biosphere due to lack of a commanding head, but mostly the Masters would be cared for after changes as well as they were before the change. There was always the chance that the Master would overcome his early conditioning and training and find some accommodation with his human counterpart -- thus giving each Master the pleasure of empathy for one's own Mnd as well as all of life. Since our orders were to be obeyed by all Ed's life, and since Ed was the headquarters for Master civilization, we were, to all intents and purposes, the sole rulers of a galaxy which would soon be in serious trouble for lack of its main force of cohesion. This lack of "integrated kingdom" seemed like a hi price to pay for improvement of the Master. In the long run -- many generations hence -- we would know. The first major departure from normal behavior by the tiny Master cell, clinging within the blood system of the wormfish, was soon obMaster cells not yet hatched from the protective cocoon, it directed itself immediately to tihe nerve control structure of the fisih. Each Master unit, in turn, behaved the same. Such confused multiple control of operations within the wormfish caused the Master to leave the fish at an earlier age. All scanning abilities were gone. But the proportion of surviving Master cells was now many where there had been but one. So many living in the same closed bio-system caused greater conflict for nourishment. This greater conflict, actually the first conflict to which the Master Race had ever been exposed, resulted in the first opportunity-step on the evolutionary ladder. Whether its problems would be solved by organized family units IF versus the environment, by strongs Duan nile, by development of keener brains -- or whether the problems would be 'solved" by succumbing to them -- would be evident only in some far distant future. This, I was sure, was the only reasonable answer to my Masters command to improve their race! I had succeeded in giving them a problem to solve at the microscopic level of existence. I had also succeeded in temporizing their feelings toward other life by introducing genes of the one race having the greatest affinity for other life -- my human race! A s rulers behind the rulers, Grammer, Surg and I were able to complete the cleanup work without happenstance. Although all forms of life were quite concerned about the Master "sickness," as it became misnamed, none would voluntarily interfere with their Master's prior command which placed our desires ahead of all else unless directly countermanded by a Master. Protectors continued to protect the "sick" Masters. Grammers continued to aid in interpreting meanings. Medics and researchers continued their functions. Bred and trained for duties under complete loyalty to the will of the Master, none were other than docile imder the emerging emergency. We knew, though, that it would not be long before the lack of specific guidance from the Master Race would soon lead to complete chaos. It was not our Intent to wait out this chaos on the planet Ed. My Job was done. I could no longer serve my Masters until and if, in the far distant, unpredictable future, the Master should overcome his evolutionary obstacles. As I well knew, the likelihood of this happening was very remote. For every successful race which reaches the so which succumb along the way. Yet, in the final analysis, there could be no other way! Regardless of the postulates which are known to be true for biomolecular engineering, the universe of reality proves always and ever larger. No ultimate intelligence would ever reach such wisdom or size that it could create my mental construct and symboUsm -- the tools of science -- complete and accurate pictures of any part of reality. This right belongs to a Supreme Being only! So I did, in my compassion and love for the Master Race, only what could be done to satisfy their command. I started them again on the long evolutionary road of trial and error -- but with a difference. This time they had a "human" helper along the way. One who had already been over the path and found it successfully. Who knows? Perhaps their chances are far better than my feeble science can predict! With these thoughts in mind, I prepared for our departure. We removed the buried explosives from our bodies and turned off the signal which could trigger the device at fifty miles up. No longer bound by need to twist and torture our thoughts through other persons for minor gains in communications, we sougiht out and selected a planet which was arthlike in many ways. It was already seeded with a small human colony at technological level one. We planned to ride out the forthcoming chaos there. Privately Surg and I were hopeful that Grammer could and would find another human female as a "soulmaite." We all three determined to continue our research activities as a team. With all of the future ahead of us, and nothing left to serve hut our own whims -- with only a twinge of regret for our Masters -- how truly glorious that future appeared! Should we tackle the problems of longevity, thus making the future ours too? Or perhaps the problems of psi functions, removing the masking elements from the genetic structures of all intelligent species, thus opening a door to multispecies unity? With our increased capacity for successful ibehavior in allied fields as well as our new knowledge of heterokaryonization we felt equal to the tasks. Surg and I, however, had our own private set of goals. And within it, I hoped our first child would have Surges eyes and hair color -- purely hereditary as they may be! The Biggest and Best Sllkie Story Yet! by A. E. Van Vogt by Hal Clement by James Blish These and many more in the October issue of If -- reserve your copy nowl IF IF  Novelette Venus Smiles The statue sang. What's worse, it wouldn't stop! I ow notes on a high aCtemoon. As we drove aiway after the unveiling my secretary said: "Mr. Hamilton, I suppose you realize what a fool you've made of yourself?" "Don't sound so piim," I told her. "How was I to know Lorraine Drexel would produce something Vke that?" Tive thousand dollars, she said reflectively. "It's nothing but a piece of old scrap iron. And the noise! Didn't you look at her sketches? What's the Fine Arts Committee for?" My secretaries have always talked to me like this, and just then I could imderstand why. I stopped the car imder the trees at the end of the square and looked back. The chairs had been cleared away and already a small crowd had gathered around the statue, staring up at it curiously. A couple of tourists were banging one of the struts, and the thin metal skeleton shuddered weakly. Despite this, a monotonous and highpitched wailing sounded out from the statue across the pleasant morning air, grating the teeth of passers-by. "Raymond Mayo is having it dismantled this afternoon," I said. "If  it hasn't already been done for us. I wondier where Miss Drexel is?" "Don't worry, you won't see her in Vennilion Sands again. I bet she's halfway to Red Beach by now." I patted Carol on the shoulder. "Relax. You looked beautiful in your new skirt. The Medicis probably felt like this about Michelangelo. Who are we to judge?" "Tom are," she said. "You were on the committee, weren't you?" "Darling," I explained patiently. "Sonic sculpture is the thing. You're trying to fight a battle the public lostthirty years ago." W e drove back to my office in a thin silence. Carol was annoyed because she had been forced to sit beside me on the platform when the audience began to heckle my speech at the unveiling, but even so the morning had been disastrous on every count. What might be perfectly acceptable at Expo # or the Venice Biennale was all too obviously passe at Vermilion Sands. When we had decided to commission a sonic sculpture for the square in the center of Vermilion Sands, Raymond Mayo and I had agreed that we should patronize a local artist. There were dozens of professional sculptors in Vermilion Sands, but only three had deigned to present themselves before the committee. The first two whom we saw were large, bearded men with enormous fists and impossible schemes -- one for a #-foothigh vibrating aluminum pylon, and the other for a vast boonaing family group that involved over fifteen tons of basalt mounted on a megalithic stepyramid. Each had taken an hour to be argued out of the committee room. The third was a woman: Lorraine Drexel. This elegant and autocratic creature in a cartwheel hat, with her eyes like black orchids, was a sometime model and intimate of Giacometti and John Cage. Wearing a blue crepe de Chine dress ornamented with lace serpents and other art nouveau emblems, she sat before us like some fugitive Salome from the world of Aubrey Beardsley. Her immense eyes regarded us with an almost hypnotic calm, as if she had discovered that very moment some unique quality in these two amiable dilettantes of the Fine Arts Committee. She had lived in Vermilion Sands for only three months, arriving via Berlin, Calcutta and the Chicago New Arts Center. Most of her sculpture to date had been scored for various Tantric and Hindu hymns, and I remembered her brief affair with a world-famous pop-singer, later killed in a car crash, who had been an enthusiastic devotee of the sitar. At the time, however, we had given no thought to the whining quarter-tones of this infernal instrument, so grating on the Western ear. She had shown us an album of her sculptures, interesting chromium constructions that compared favorably with the run of illustrations in the latest art magazines; but I was looking only at her huge hieratic eyes. Within half an hour we had drawn up a contract. IF I saiw the statue for the first time that afternoon, thirty seconds before I started my speech to the specially selected assembly of Vermilion Sands notables. Why none of us had bothered to look at it beforehand I fail to understand. The. title printed on the invitation cards -- Sound and Quantum: Generative Synthesis # -- had seemed a little odd, and the general shape of the shrouded statue even more suspicious. I was expecting a stylized human figure, but the structure under the acoustic drapes had the proportions of a mediumsized radar aerial. However, Lorraine Drexel sat beside me on the stand, her bland eyes surveying the crowd below. A dreamlike smile gave her the look of a tamed Mona Lisa. What we saw after Raymond Mayo pulled the tape I tried not to think about. With its pedestal the statue was twelve feet high. Three spindly metal legs, ornamented with spikes and crosspieces, reached up from the plinth to a triangular apex. Clamped onto this was a jagged structure that at first sight seemed to be an old Buick radiator grille. It had been bent into a rough U five feet across, and the two arms jutted out horizontally, a single row of sonic cores, each about a foot long, poking up like the teeth of an enormous comb. Welded on apparently at random all over the statue were twenty or thirty filigree vanes. That was all. The whole structure of scratched chromium had a blighted look, like a derelict TV antenna. Startled a little by the first shrill whoops emitted by the statue, I began my speech and was about halfway through when I noticed that Lorraine Drexel had left her seat beside me. People in the audience were beginning to stand up and cover ttheir ears, shouting to Raymond to replace the acoustic drape. A bat sailed through the air over my head and landed neatly on one of the sonic cores. The statue was now giving out an intermittent high-pitched whine, a sitarlike caterwauling that seemed to pull apart the sutures of my skull. Responding to the boos and protests, it suddenly began to whoop erratically, the hornlike sounds confusing the traffic on the far side of the square. As the audience began to leave their seats en masse, I stuttered inaudibly to the end of my speech, the wiOing of the statue interrupted by shouts and jeers. Then Carol tugged me sharply by the arm, her eyes flashing. Raymond Mayo pointed with a nervous hand. The three of us were now alone on the platfonn, the rows of overturned chairs reaching across the square. Standing twenty yards from the statue, which had now begun to whimper plaintively, was Lorraine Drexel. I expected to see a look of fury and outrage on her face, but instead her unmoving eyes showed the calm and implacable contempt of a grieving widow insulted at her husband's funeral. As we waited awkwardly, watching the wind carry away the last program cards, she turned on a diamond heel and walked across the square. n N o one else wanitied anylMng to do with the stattue, so I was finally presented with il Lorraine Drexel left Vermilion Sands the day it was dismantled. Raymond spoke briefly to iher on the telephone before she went. I presumed she would be rather unpleasant (and didn't bother to Msten in on the extension. 'Well?" I asked. "Does she want it back?" "No." Raymond seemed slightly preoccupied. "She said it belonged to us." "You and me?" "Everybody." Raymond helped himself to the decanter of Scotch on the veranda table. "Then she started laughing." "Good. What at?" "I don't know. She just said that we'd grow to like it." There was nowhere else to put the statue so I planted it out in the garden. Without the stone pedestal it was only six feet high. Shielded by the shrubbery, it bad quieted down and now emitted a pleasant melodic harmony, its soft rondos warbling across the afternoon heat. The sitarlike twangs, which the statue had broadcast in the square like some pathetic love call from Lorraine Drexel to her dead lover, had vanished completely, almost as if the statue had be rescored. I had been so stampeded by the disastrous unveiling that I bad had little chance to see it, and I thought it looked a lot better in the garden than it had done in Vermilion Sands, the chromium struts and abstract shapes standing out against the desert like something in a vodka advertisement. After a few days I could almost ignore it. A week or so later we were out on the terrace after lunch, lounging back in the deck chairs. I was nearly asleep when Carol said: "Mr. Hamilton, I think it's moving." "What's moving?" Carol was sitting up, head cocked to one side. "The statue. It looks different." I focused my eyes on the statue twenty feet away. The radiator grille at the top had canted round slightly, but the three stems still seemed more or less upright. "The rain last night must have softened the ground," I said. I listened to the quiet melodies carried on the warm eddies of air and then lay back drowsily. I heard Carol light a cigarette with four matches and walk across the veranda. When I woke in an hour's time she was sitting straight up in the deck chair, a frown creasing her forehead. "Swallowed a bee?" I asked. "You look worried." Then something caught my eye. I watched the statue for a moment. "You're right. It is moving." Carol nodded. The statue's shape had altered perceptibly. The grille had spread into an open gondola whose sonic cores seemed to feel at the sky, and the three stem-pieces were wider apart. AH the angles seemed different. 'T thought you'd notice it evenIF tually," Carol said as we walked over to it "What's it made of?" "Wrought iron -- I think, Hiere must be a lot of copper or lead in it The heat is making it sag." "Then why is it sagging upward instead of down?" I touched one of the shoulder struts. It was springing elastically as the air moved across the vanes and went on vibrating against my palm. I gripxed it in both hands and tried to keep it rigid. A low but discernible pulse pumped steadily against me. I backed away from it wiping (the flaking chrome off my hands. The Mozartian harmonies had gone, and the statue was now producing a series of low Mahler-like chords. As Carol stood there in her bare feet I remembered that the height specification we had given to Lorraine Drexel had been exactly two meters. But the statue was a good three feet higher than Carol, the gondola at least six or seven across. The spars and struts looked thicker and stronger. "Carol," I said. "Get me a file, would you? There are some in the garage." She came back with two files and a hacksaw. "Are you going to cut it down?" she asked hopefully. "Darling, this is on original Drexel." I took one of the files. "I just want to convince myself that I'm not going insane." I started cutting a series of small notches all over the statue, making sure they were exactly the width of the file apart. The metal was soft and worked easily; on the surface there was a lot of rust but underneath it had a bright sappy glint. "All right," I said when I tiad finished. "Let's go and have a drink." We sat on the veranda and waited. I fixed my eyes on the statue and could have sworn that it didn't move. But when we went back an hour later the gondola had swung rigjit roimd again, hanging down over us like an immense metal mouth. There was no need to check the notch intervals against the file. They were all at least double the original distance apart. "Mr. Hamilton," Carol said. "Look at this." She pointed to one of the spikes. Poking through the outer scale of chrome were a series of sharp little nipples. One or two were already beginning to hollow themselves. Unmistakably they were incipient sonic cores. Carefully I examined the rest of the statue. All over it new sftioots of metal were coming through: arches, barbs, sharp double helixes, twisting the original statue into a thicker and more elaborate constniction. A medley of half-familiar sounds, fragments of a dozen overtures and symphonies, murmured all over it. The statue was well over twelve feet high. I fek one of the heavy struts, and the pulse was stronger, beating steadily ithrough the metal, as if it were thrusting itself on to the sound of its own music. Carol was, watching me with a pinched and worried Hook. "Relax," I said. "It's growing." We went back to tlhe veranda and watdhed. By six o'clock that evening it was the size of a small tree. A spirited simultaneous rendering of Brahms's Academic Festival Overture and Rachmaninoff's First Piano Concerto trumpeted across the garden. Ill #rj-ihe strangest thing about it," ' A Raymond said the next morning, raising his voice above the din, "is that it's still a Drexel." "Still a piece of sculpture, you mean?" "More than that. Take any section of it and you'll find the original motifs being repeated. Each vane, each heMx has all the authentic Drexd mannerisms, almost as if e herself were shaping it Admittedly, this penchant for the late Romantic composers is a little out of keeping with ah that sitar twanging, but that's rather a good thing, if you ask me. You can probably expect to hear some Beethoven any moment now -- the Pastoral Symphony, I would guess." "Not to mention all five piano concertos -- played at once," I said sourly. Raymond's loquacious delight in this musical monster out in the garden annoyed me. I closed the veranda windows, wishing that he himself had installed the statue in the living room of his downtown apartment. "I take it that it won't go on growing forever?" Carol handed Raond another Scotch. "What do you think we ought to do?" Raymond shrugged. "Why worry?" he said airily. "When it starts tearing the house down cut it back. Thank God we had it dismantled. If this had happened in Vermilion Sands... " Carol touched my arm. "Mr. Hamilton, perhaps that's what Lorraine Drexel expected. She wanted it to start spreading all over the town, the music driving everyone crazy -- " "Careful," I warned her. "You're running away with yourself. As Raymond says, we can chop it up any time we want to and melt the whole thing down." "Why don't you, then?" "I want to see how far it'll go," I said. In fact my motives were more mixed. Clearly, before she left, Lorraine Drexel had set some perverse jinx at work within the statue, a bizarre revenge on us all for deriding her handiwork. As Raymond had said, the present babel of symphonic music had no connection with the melancholy cries the statue had first emitted. Had those forlorn chords been intended to be a requiem for her dead lover -- or even, conceivably, the beckoning calls of a stdl unsurrendered heart? Whatever her motives, they had now vanished into this strange travesty lying across my garden. I watched the statue reaching slowly across the lawn. It had collapsed under its own weight and lay on its side in a huge angular spiral, twenty feet long and about fifteen feet high, like the skeleton of a futuristic whale. Fragments of the NutIF cracker Suite and Mendelssohn's Italian Symphony sounded from it, overlaid by sudden blaring excerpts from the closing movement of Grieg's Piano Concerto. The selection of these hack classics seemed deli'berately designed to get on my nerves. I had been up with the statue most of the night. After Carol went to bed, I drove my car, with Raymond, onto the strip of lawn next to the house and turned on the headlamps. The statue stood out almost lummousiy in the darkness, booming away to itself, more and more of the sonic cores budding out in the yellow glare of the lights. Gradually it lost its original shape; the toothed grills enveloped itself and then put out new struts and barbs that spiraled upward, each throwing off secondary and tertiary shoots in its turn. Shortly after midnight it began to lean and then suddenly toppled over. By now its movement was cockscrew. The plinth had been carried into the air and hung somewhere in the middle of the tangle, revolving slowly, and the main foci of activity were at either end. The growth rate was accelerating. We watched a new shoot emerge. As one of the struts curved round a small knob poked through the flaking chrome. Within a minute it grew into a spur an inch long, thickened, began to curve and five minutes later had developed into a full-throated sonic core twelve inches long. Raymond pointed to two of my neighbors standing onthe roof of their houses a hundred yards away, alerted by the music carried across to them. "You'll soon have everyone in Vermilion Sands out here. If I were you, I'd throw an acoustic drape over it." "If I could find one of the size of a tennis court. It's time we did something, anyway. See if you can trace Lorraine Drexel. I'm going to find out what makes this statue go." U sing the hacksaw, I cut off a two-foot limb and handed it to Dr. Blackett, an eccentric but amiable neighbor who sometimes dabbled in sculpture himself. We walked back to the comparative quiet of the veranda. The single sonic cord emitted a few random notes, fragments from a quartet by Webern. "What do you make of it?" "Remarkable," Blackett said. He bent the bar between his hands. "Almost plastic." He looked back at the statue. "Definite drcumutation there. Probably phototropic as well. Mhm, almost like a plant." "Is it aUve?" Beckett laughed. "My dear Hamilton, of course not. How can it be?" "Well, where is it getting its new material? From the groimd?" "From the air. I don't know yet, but I imagine it's rapidly synthesizing an allotropic form of ferrous oxide. In other words, a purely physical rearrangement of the constituents of rust." Blackett stroked his heavy brush moustache and stared at the statue with a dreamlike eye. "Musically, it's rather curious -- an appalling congjomeration of almost every bad note ever composed Somewiieire the staitue must have suffered some severe sonic trauma. It's behaving as if it had been left for a week in a railroad shunting yard. Any idea what happened?" "Not really." I avoided his gjance as we walked back to the statue. It seemed to sense us coming and began to trumpet out the opening bars of Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance march. Deliberately breaking step, I said to Blackett: "So in fact all I have to do to silence the thing is chop it up into two-foot lengths?" "If it worries you. However, it would be interesting to leave it, assuming you can stand the noise. There's absolutely no danger of it going on indefinitely." He reached up and felt one of the spars. "Still firm, but I'd say it was almost there. It will soon start getting pulpy like an over-iipe fruit and begin to shred off and disintegrate, playing itself out, one hopes, with Mozart's Requiem and the finale of the Goet'terdammerungJ He smiled at me, showing his strange teeth. "Die, if you pref it." However, he had reckoned completely without Lorraine Drexel. IV A t six o'clock the next morning I was woken by the noise. The statue was now fifty feet long and crossing the flower beds on efther side of the garden. It sounded as if a complete orchestra were performing some Mad Hatter's symphony out. in the center of the lawn. At the far end, by the rockery, the sonic cores were still working their way through the Romantic catalogue, a babel of Mendelssohn, Schubert and Grieg, but near the veranda the cores were beginning to emit the jarring and syncopated rhythms of Stravinsky and Stockhausen. I woke Carol, and we ate a nervous breakfast. "Mr. HamiltonI" she shouted. "You've got to stop it!" The nearest tendiils were only five feet from the glass doors of the veranda. The largest limbs were over three inches in diameter, and the pulse thudded through them like water under pressure in a fire hose. When the first police oars cruised past down the road, I went into the garage and found the hacksaw. The metal was soft, and the blade sank through it quickly. I left the pieces I cut off in a heap to one side, random notes sounding out into the air. Separated from the main body of the statue, the fragments were almost inactive, as Dr. Blackett had stated. By two o'clock that afternoon I had cut back about half the statue and got it down to manageable proportions. "That should hold it," I said to Carol. I walked round and lopped off a few of the noisier spars. 'Tomorrow I'll finish it off altogether." I wasn't in the least surprised when Raymond called and said that there was no trace anywhere of Lorraine Drexel. A t two o'clock that night I woke as a window burst across the floor oif my bedroom. A huge metal helix hovered like a claw through IP the fractured pane, its sonic core screaming down at me. A ihalf-moon was up, throwing a thin gray light over the garden. Tlie statue had sprung hack and was twice as large as it had been at its peak the previous morning. It lay all over the garden in a tangled mesh, like the skeleton of a crushed building. Already the advance tendrils had reached the bedroom windows, while others had climbed over the garage and were sprouting downward through the roof, tearing away the galvanized metal eets. All over the statue thousands of sonic cores gleamed in the light thrown down from the window. At last in unison, they hymned out the finale of Bruckner's Apocalyptic Symphony. I went into Carol's bedroom, fortunately on the other side of the house, a made her promise to stay in bed. Then I telephoned RaymoiKl Mayo. He came round within an hour, an oxy-cetylene torch and cylmders he had begged from a local contractor in the back seat of his car. The statue was growing almost as fast as we could cut it back, but by the time the first light came up at a quarter to six we had beaten it D r. Blackett watched us slice through the last fragments of the statue. "There's a section down in the rockery that might just be audible. I think it would be worth saving." I wiped the rust-tained sweat from my face and shook my head. "No. I'm sorry, but once is enough." Blackett nodded in sympathy, and stared gloomily across the heaps of scrap iron wldch were all th remained of the statue. Carol, looking a little stunned by everyithing, was pouring coffee and brandy. As we slumped back in two of the deck chairs, arms and faces black with rust and metal filings, I reflected wryly that no one could accuse the Fine Arts Committee of not devoting itself wholeheartedly to its projects. I went off on a final tour of the garden, collecting the section Blackett had mentioned, then guided in the local contractor who had arrived with his truck. It took him and his two men an hour to load the scrap -- an estimated ton and a half -- into the vehicle. "What do I do with it?" he asked as he climbed into the cab. "Take it to the museum?" "No!" I almost screamed. "Get rid of it. Bury it somewhere, or bter still, have it melted down. As soon as possible." When they had gone Blackett and I walked round the garden together. It looked as if a shrapnel shell had exploded over it. Huge divots were strewn all over the place, and what grass that had not been ripped up by the statue had been tramped away by us. Iron filings lay on the lawn like dust, a faint ripple of lost notes oarried away on the steepening sunlight. Blackett bent down and scooped up a handful of grains. "Dragon's teeth. You'll look out of the window tomorrow and see the B Minor Mass coming up." He let it run out between his fingers. "However, I suppose tihat's tlhe end of it." He couldn't have been more wrong. L onmne Drexel sued us. She must have come across the newspaper reports and realized her opportunity. I don't know where she had been hiding, but her lawyers materialized quickly enough, waving the original contract and pointing to the clause in which we guaranteed to protect the statue from any damage that might be done to it by vandals, livestock or other public nuisance. Her main accusation concerned the damage we had done to her reputation -- if we had decided not to exhibit the statue we should have supervised its removal to some place of safekeeping, not openly dismenlbered it and then sold off the fragments to a scrap dealer. This deliberate affront had, her lawyers insisted, cost her commissions to a total of at least fifty thousand dollars. At the preliminary hearings we soon realized that, absurdly, our one big difficulty was going to be proving to anyone who had not been there that the statue had actually started growing. With luck we managed to get several postponements, and Raymond and I tried to trace what we could of the statue. All we found were three small struts, now completely inert, rusting in the sand on the edge of one of the junkyards in Red Beach. Apparently taldng me at my word, the contractor had shipp the rest of the statue to a steel mill to be melted down. Our only case now rested on what amounted to a plea of self-defense. Raymond and myself testified that the statue had started to grow, and then Blackett delivered a long homily to the judge on what he believed to be the musical shortcomings of the statue. The judge, a crusty and short-tempered old man of the hanging school, immediately decided that we were trying to pull his leg. We were finished from the start. The final judgment was not delivered until ten months after we had first unveiled the statue in the center of Vermilion Sands, and the verdict when it came was no surprise. Lorraine Drexel was awarded thirty thousand dollars. #Tt looks as if we should have X taken the pylon after all," I said to Carol as we left the courtroom. "Even the step-pyramid would have been less trouble." Raymond joined us and we went out onto the balcony at the end of the corridor for some air. "Never mind," Carol said bravely. "At least it's all over with." The court building was a new one, and by an unpleasant irony ours had been the first case to be heard there. Much of the floor and plasterwork had still to be completed, and the balcony was untiled. I was standing on an exposed steel cross-beam; one or two floors down someone must have been driving a rivet into one of the girders, and the beam under my feet vibrated soothingly. Then I noticed that there were no sounds of riveting going on anyIF where, and that the movement under my feet was not so much a vibration as a low rhythmic pulse. I bent down and pressed my hands against the beam. Raymond and Carol watched me curiously. "Mr. Hamilton, what is it?" Carol asked when I stood up. "Raymond," I said. "How long ago did they first start on this building? The steel framework, anyway." "Four months, I think. Why?" "Four." I nodded slowly. 'Tell me, how long would you say it took any random piece of scrap iron to be reprocessed through a steel mill and get back into circulation?" "Years, if it lay around in the wrong junkyards." "But if it had actually arrived at the steel null?" "A month or so. Less." I started to laugh, pointing to the girder. "Feel that! Go on, feel it!" Frowning at me, they knelt down and pressed their hands to the girder. Then Raymond looked up at me. I stopp laughing. "Did you feel it?" "Feel it?" Raymond repeated. "I can hear it. Lorraine Drexel -- the statue. It's here!" Carol was patting the girder and listening to it. "I think it's humming," she said, puzzled. "It sounds like the statue." When I started to laugh again Raymond held my arm. "Snap out of it, the whole building will be singing soon!" "I know" I said weaMly. "And it won't be just this building either." I took Carol by the arm. "Come on, let's see if it's started." V W e went up to the top floor. The plasterers were about to move in, and there were trestles and laths all over the place. The walls were still bare brick. We didn't have to look very far. Jutting out from one of the steel joists below the roof was a long metal helix, hollowing itself slowly into a delicate sonic core. Without moving, we counted a dozen others. A faint twanging sound come from them, like early arrivals at a rehearsal of some vast orchestra of sitar players, seated on every plain and hilltop of the Earth. "An authentic Drexel," I said. "All the mannerisms. Nothing much to look at yet, but wait till it really gets going." Raymond wandered round, bis mouth open. "It'U tear the building apart. Just think of the noise." Carol was staring up at one of the shoots. "Mr. Hamilton, you said they'd melted it all down." "They did, angel. So it got back into circulation, touching off all the other metal it came into contact with. Lorraine Drexel's statue is here, in this building, in a dozen other buildings, in ships and planes..." "They'll stop it," Carol said. "They might," I admitted. "But it'll probably get back again somehow. A few pieces always will." I put my arm round her waist and began to dance to the strange abstracted music, for some reason as beautiful now as Lorraine Drexel's wistful eyes. "Did you say it was all over? Carol, it's only just beginning. The IF  Feature Our Mon m Fandom fakes us fo a typically nonfypical fan club meeting E ver wonder wliat actually happens at a fan club meeting -- what the fans do -- whait they talk about? Those of you who aren't lucky enough, to live within "visiting distance" of a fanclub may be curious as to the exact goings-on. I thought (that this month I'd sort of take you on a guided tour of a fanclub. So come along with Your Man In Fandom, and we'll spend Friday night with the Fanoclasts, biggest and most active of the fanclubs here in New York City and one of the vital centers of Fandom today, as sponsor club to the # World Science Fiction Convention, The Fanoclasts are an informal crew, scorning club officers and constitutions and like that. Whoever throws open his apartment to the bunch is host to the club and as near to an officer as the Fanoclasts ever get. Rising science-fiction writer Ted White, an editor of The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, is the current host Every other Friday the group meets at his apartment in Brooklyn, stalting (about nine o'clock. My wife, Noel, and I were among the first (to get (there. We put our coats in a comer and looked around. Ted has a ground-fioor apartment, three rooms or ao, and the living room was mostly given over to shelves. Ted has an admirable collection of pulp ntagaziDes, literally thousands of them, mostly science fiction; but there were also long ranks of several of the old superhero magazines: Doc Savage, The Shadow, The Avenger and that sort of thing. Another room held a wall packed soMd with paperbacks, and I noticed a stack of Big Little Books piled in a comer. Ted's equally impressive collection of comic books must have been packed away somewhere, for I didn't see any around. The living room also held Ted's stereo and several paintings, modem, impressionistic tihings, as well as a cover sketch by Frank Frazetta and Jack Gaughan's Pop Ait portrait of Ted. There were also some oats; on inquiring, I learned the Whites currently keep four kittens named Pooh Bear, Tigger, Kanga and Roo, as well as their parents, Aphrodite and Sinbad. I speculated aloud as to how this brood would get along with my own family of four dogs and eight puppies! A mong the first arrivals were Dick and Pat Lupoff and Dave and Cindy Van Amam. The Lupoffs used to be hosts to the Fanoclasts when they had an apartment in New York. Since Dick's job with Xerox took them upstate to Poughkeepsie they get down rarely. Dick is the editor of Canaveral Press, the publishing affiliate of Bible  Tannen, the booksellers; and he edited those recent hardcover editions of Edgar Rice Burroughs. Dick has also just become a science-fiction writer, selling his first novel to Lancer Books. Dave Van Amam has been collaborating with Ted on some science fiction and just sold a novel of his own to Belmont. We got to talking about the curious fact that whoever hosts the Fanoclasts for any length of time seems to turn pro, as Dick did and Dave too, for he briefly hosted the club. I was host myself for several months and have sold ten science-fiction novels myself to the paperbacks, so I agre with the fact that this eerie phenomenon seems to actually work. Ted put some light jazz on the stereo, and Dave Van Amam went out to bring back some soda, and beer, 'and pretty soon people started to trickle in. The first I spoke to was a fan named Alex Panshin. Alex has sold a few stories to Analog and Worlds of Tomorrow, and he's written a booklength critical study of the fiction of Robert Heinlein. He hasn't yet been able to find a publisher, but he's still looking around. Since Heinlein has been one of my favorite science-fiction writers for a good twenty years, we got to comparing notes on the books. I asked Alex whait his top favorites were, and he named Beyond This Horizon, Have Space Ship Will Travel and one of the juveniles, perhaps Red Planet, His choice of these as Heinledn's best baffled me, for I would name Methuselahs Children and Citizen of the Galaxy and Glory Road, myself. MY choices seemed to agreed. I do hope his book gets published, though, I'd very much like to read it. The title is Heinlein in Di- mension. Meanwhile, Dave Van Amam was passing out neatly mimeographed copies of his weekly one-page fanmag, First Draft it was, in fact, the #th weekly issue! I looked it over while my wife talked to Cindy and Pat Lupf. Casual, chatty stuff, filled with Van Amam's personal observations on various topics, such as Jackie Kennedy's announcement that she would write her own memoirs (seeing as how the Manchester project bombed out, in her estimation) and similar matters of the moment. S everal more Faiioclasts had arivved by this poimit I said hello to Terry aiKl Carol Carr, and to Lee Hoffman. Terry is one of the editors of Ace Books and has just done a hardcover anithology for Doubleday with the intriguing title. Science Fiction For People Who Hate ScU ence Fiction, He sports one of the blackest, lushest beards in Fandom. Lee Hoffman has written a couple of Western novels and was telling us that she has just sold three sdence-fiotion novels to Belmont. "How did it happen?" I asked. She shrugged. "I don't know. One morning at a completely ridiculous hour -- like noon -- I got this plot-idea and hopped out of bed to start writing it down   Across the room, Ted was talking to some young guys. Ted and Dave Van Amam are co-chairmen of the # Worldcon; and Ted was relating on his dry, precise way how they got a letter recently from the New York City Convention Bureau. The Bureau wanted information on Nycon in, saying some flying-saucer groups had asked for det on the science-fiction convention and might wish to attend. "I wrote them that we did not wish any flying-saucer groups to attend, and that was that," he finished laconically. Several young fans who read this column got me off in a comer and fired questions at me. "Do you know where I can get a oc of The Poetic EddaV one of them asked me unexpectedly. While I was telling him that this ancient loelandic mythologioal "bible" of the Norse religion is in print from the American-Scandinavian Foundation in English. I noticed sciencenfiction artist Jack Gaughan arriving. He came all the way from the hidden Plateau of Leng in the forbidden depths of trackless New Jersey, bearing the artwork for Nycon Comics ##. This fannish comicbook is one of the things you get when you join the Nycon, and it's one of the funniest things I've seen in years. I tried to disengage myself from the gaggle of question-askers so as to get a look at tihe latest Nycon Comics, but it wasn't easy. Another fellow was asking me questions about Robert E. Howard. He had heard I was busy completing some fragmenitary "Ig KuU" and "Conan" stories for Lancer Books, stories Robert E. Howard probably would have sent on to the old Weird Tales if he'd lived to finisth them, but which were discovered after his death by his literary aigent, Glenn Lord of Pasadena, Texas. Ted changed records on the stereo, and I got free and began chuckling over Jack Gaugh's comic art. I noticed Ted was passing out, to a select few, copies of his new children's book The Secret of the Marauder Satellite, just published by Westminster Press. I saw him slip a copy to Terry Carr and to Jack Gauglmi, who designed the book jacket The room was beginning to fill up by tfhis time, and people were spillmg over into the kitchen. The soft undercurrent of jazz made a sort of IP couniterpoint to the erratic currents of conversiation. Ted was showing pasteups of pages from the Nycon's second Progress Report. On the living room couch, Dick Lupoff was describing his Lancer novel, still untitled. It's a sort of sword  sorcery thing, but with overtones of time travel. As I came by, he was telling Lee Hoffman and others about a peculiar airship he had invented for the novel. It sounded to me rather like a mechanical grasshopper, operating on the pogostick principle: you start off taking wee Mttle tiny hops in it, and every time it hits the ground it bounces higher and higher until after a while you are taking stupendous mile-jhigh leaps over the landscape. "Fantastic!" Lee laughed. Dick goggled with an expression of mockindignation. "Fantastic? That's the hard science in my story. I'll have you know," he protested. I t was nearly time for "The Avengers." The Fanoclasts have recently formed the habit of watching itMs tv show during club evenings. It seems to be a deeply ingrained habit, for although "The Avengers' " time was pre-empted this evening to make room for some awful feature on popular music called "The Songmakers," they went right on watching Channel # as if by force of habit. Nothing bores me more than television, unless it's popular music; and the combination of the two drove me into the kitchen where I got into a conversation with Andy Porter. Andy has been "first reader" for FSF for some time now; and he told me, beaming with pride, that he has just been made some sort of associate editor of the magazine. We talked about various writers -- I think I held forth on Keith Laumer, a writer I am particularly fond of -- while Andy worked around to a pointed critique of the recent "Our Man In Fandom" columns he had seen. In the front room Terry Carr and Jack Gaughan and Ted were talking about various matters, including how much they all liked Harlan Ellison; and Ted showed me around his study where he does most of his writing. I got into a conversation with Dave and Andy over Keith Laumer again; it happened that I had with me the Simon  Schuster hardcover edition of Laumer's The Great Time Machine Hoax, which I had picked up that afternoon, and I was praising it to the skies. Someone came up and asked me about the weird sonnet-sequence I wrote in imitation of H.P. Lovecraft's "Fungi from Yuggoth" and which was being intermittently serialized in the fanzine Amra. I told him another installment was in the works and passed along the news that August Derleth was interested in publishing these sonnets and the rest of my macabre verse in book form; Arkham House will do them under the title of Dreams From Rlyeh, We discussed Amra, George Scithers' admirable, entertaining, Hugo-winning fanzine for awhile, and then it was time for my wife and I to catch our train back to Long Island... IF  Novelette He didn't remember how he had come to this planet. He only remembered that he was dead! I awakening from his deathbed, of being shot outwards over the edge of N o squeeze. No pain. a bowl bigger than Earth seen from Death has a wide pelvis, he a space capsule. Sprawling outwards, thought -- much later, when he had he landed on his hands and knees on time to reflect. a gentle slope. So gentle it was. He Now he was screaming. did not tear his hands and knees but He had had an impression of slid smoothly onward and downward on the great curve. The material on which he accelerated looked much like . brass and felt frictionless. Though he did not think of it then -- he was too panic-stricken to do anything but react -- he knew later that the brassy stuff had even less resistance than oil become a solid. And the brass, or whatever it was, formed a solid seamless eet. The only break was in the center, where the sheet ended. There, far ahead and far below, the bowl curved briefly upward. Gathering speed, he slipped along the gigantic chute. He tried to stay on his hands and knees; but, when he twisted his body to see behind him, he shifted his weight. Over he went onto his side. Squawling, he thrashed around, and he tried to dig his nails into the brass. No use. He met no resistance, and he began spinning aroimd, around. He did see, during his whirlings, the rim from which he had been shoved. But he could see only the rim itself and, beyond, the blue cloudless sky. Overhead was the sun, looking just like the Terrestrial sim. He rolled over on his back and succeeded during the maneuver in stopping the rotations. He also managed to see ihis own body. He began screaming again, the first terror driven out and replaced by -- or added to as a higher harmonic -- the terror of finding himself in a sexless body. Smooth. Projectionless. Hairless. His legs hairless, too. No navel. His skin a dark brown -- like an Apache's. Morfiks screamed and screamed, and he gripped his face and the top of his head. Then he screamed higher and higher. The face was not the one he knew (the lidge of bone above the ees and the broken nose were not there), and his head was smooth as an egg. He fainted. L ater, although it could not have been much later, he came to his senses. Overhead was the bright sun and beneath him was the cool nonfriction. He turned his face to one side, saw the same brass and had no sensation of sliding because he had no reference point. For a moment he thought he might be at the end of his descent. But on lifting his head he saw that the bottom of the bowl was closer, that it was rushing at him. His heart was leaping in his chest as if trying to batter itself to a second death. But it did not fail. It just drove the blood through his ears imtil he could hear its roar even above the air rushing by. He lowered his head until ks back was supported by the brass, and he closed his eyes against the sun. Never in all his life (lives?) had he felt so helpless. More helpless than a newborn babe, who does not know he is helpless and who cannot think and who will be taken care of if he cries. He had screamed, but no one was running to take care of him. Downward he slipped, brass-yellow curving away on both sides of him, no sensation of heat against his back where the skin should have burned off a long time ago and his muscles should now be burning. The incline began to be less downward, to straighten out. He shot across a flat space which he had no means of estimating because he was going too fast. The flatness gave away to a curving upwards. He felt that he was slowing down; he hoped so. If he continued at the same rate of speed, he would shoot far out and over the center of the bowl. Here it camel The rim! He went up with just enough velocity to rise perhaps seven feet above the edge. Then, falling, he glimpsed a city of brass beyond the people gathered on the shore of a river but lost sight of these in the green waters rushing up towards him directly below. He bellowed in anguish, tried to straighten out, and flailed his arms and legs. In vain. The water struck him on his left side. Half-stunned, he plunged into the cool and dark waters. By the time he had broken the surf again, he had regained his senses. There was only one thing to do. Behind him, the brassy wall reared at least thirty feet straight up. He had to swim to the shore, which was about four hundred yards away. vhiBi if he had not been able to swim? What if he chose to drown now rather than face the unknown on the beach? A boat was his answer. A flatbottomed boat of brass rowed with brass oars by a brown-skinned man (man?). In the bow stood a similar creature (similar? exactly alike) extending a long pole of brass. The manlike thing in the bow called out, "Grab hold, and I'll pull you in." Morfiks replied with an obsenity and began swimming toward the beach. The fellow with the pole howled, "A trouble-maker, heh? We'll have no antisocial actions here, citizen!" He brought the butt of the pole down with all his strength. It was then that Morfiks found that he was relatively invulnerable. The pole, even if made of material as light as aluminum and hollow, should have stunned him and cut his scalp open. But it had bounced off with much less effect than the fall into the river. 'ome into the boat," said the poleman. "Or nobody here will like you.' U Tft was this threat that cowed MorX fiks. After climbing into the boat, he sat down on the bench in front of the rower and examined the two. No doubt of it. They were twins. Same height (both were sitting now) as himself. Hairless, except for long curling black eyelashes. Same features. High foreheads. Smooth hairless brows. Straight noses. Full lips. Well developed chins. Regular, almost classical features, delicate, looking both feminine and masculine. Their eyes were the same shade of dark brown. Their skins were heavily tanned. Their bodies were slimly built and quite human except IF for the disooncertmg lack of sex, navel and nipples on the masculine chests, "Where am I?" said Morfiks. "In the fourth dimension?" He had read about that in the vSunday supplements and some of the more easily digesteds. "Or in Hell?" he added, which would have been his first question if he had been in his Terrestrial body. Nothing that had happened so far made him thing he was in Heaven. The pole rapped him in the mouth, and he thought that either the poleman was pulling his punches or else his new fle was less sensitive than his Terrestrial. The last must be it. His lips felt almost as numb as when the dentist gave him novocaine before pulling a tooth. And his meager buttocks did not hurt from sitting on the hard brass. Moreover, he had all his teeth. his mouth. "You will not use that word," said the poleman. "It's not nice, and it's not true. The protectors do not like that word and will take one hundred per cent effective measures to punish anybody responsible for offending the public taste with it." "You mean the word beginning with H?" said Morfiks cautiously. "You're catching on fast, citizen." "What do you call this... place?" "Home. Just plain home. Allow me to introduce myself. I'm one of the official gieeters. I have no name; nobody here does. Citizen is good enough for me and for you. However, being a greater doesn't make me one whit better than you, citizen. It's just my job, that's alL We all have jobs here, all equally important. We're all on the same level, citizen. No cause for envy or strife." "No name?" Morfiks said. "Forget that nonsense. A name means you're trying to set yourself apart Now, you wouldn't think it was nice if somebody thought he wias better than you bwause he had a name that was big in We-knowwhere, would you? Of course not." "I'm here for... how long?" Morfiks said. "Who knows?" "Forever?" Morfiks said dismally. T he end of the pole butted into his lips. His head rocked back, but he did not hurt much. "Just think of the present citizen. Because that is all that exists. The past doesn't exist; the future can't Only the present exists." "There's no future?" Again, the butt of the pole. "Forget that word. We use it on the river when we're breaking in immigrants. But once on the shore, we're through with it. Here, we're practical. We don't indulge in fantasy." "I get your message," Morfiks said. He damped the impulse to leap at the poleman's throat. Better to wait until he found out what the setup was, what a man could or could not get away with. The rower said, "Coming ashore, citizens." Morfiks noticed that the two had voices exactly alike, and he supposed his own was the same as theirs. But he had a secret trkiinph. His voice would sound different to himself; he had that much edge on the bastards. The boat nudged onto the beach, and Morfiks followed the other two onto the sand. He looked quickly behmd him and now saw that there were many boats up and down the river. Here and there a body shot up over the rim of. the brassy cliff and tumbled down into the waters as he had a few minu tes ago. Beyond the lip of the cliff rose the swell of the brass slide down which he had hurtled. The slide extended so far that he could not see the human figures that undoubtedly must be standing on the edge where he had stood and must just now be in the act of being pushed from behind. Five miles away, at least, five miles he had slid. A colossal building project, he thought. Beyond the dty of brass rose another incline. He understood now that he had been mistaken in believing the city was in the middle of a bowl. As far as he could see, there was the river and the city and the cliffs and slides on both sides. And he supposed that there was another river on the other side of the dty. The dty reminded him of the suburban tract in which he had lived on Earth. Rows on rows of square brass houses, exactly alike, fadng each other across twenty-foot wide streets. Earth house was about twelve feet wide. Each had a flat roof and a door in front and back, a strip of windows which drcled the house like a transpaieot belt There were no yards. A space of two feet separated each house from its neighbor. A person stepped out of the crowd standing on the beach. This one differed from the others only in having a band of some black metal around the biceps of its right arm. "Officer of the Day," it said in a voice exactly like the two in the boat "Your turn will come to act in this capadty. No favorites here." I t was then that Morfits recognized the possibilities of individualism in voice, of recognizing others. Even if everybody had identical dimensions in larynxes and the resonating chambers of palate and nasal passages, they must retain their habits of intonation and choice of pitch and words. Also, despite identical bodies and legs, they must keep some of their peculiar gtures and mods of walking. "Any complaints about treatment so far?" said the O.D. "Yes," said Morfiks. "This jerk hit me three times witii its pole." "Only because we love it," said the poleman. "We struck it -- oh, very lightly! -- to correct its ways. As a father -- pardon the word -- punishes a child he loves. Or an older brother his little brother. We are all brothers .  . "We are guilty of antisocial behavior," said the O.D. sternly. "We're very very sorry, but we must report this incident to the Protectors. Believe us, it hurt us..." "Worse than it hurts us," said the poleman wearily. "We know." "We'll have to add cynicism to the IF charge," said the O.D. "K.P. for several months if we know the Protectors. Should anybody be guilty again -- " llie O.D. told Morfiks to walk with it, and it briefed Morfiks as they went through the streets. These were made of a pale violet rubbery substance only slightly warm to the feet despite the sun beating down upon it. Morfiks would be given his own home. He was lord and master there and could do whatever he wished in it as long as he did not break any rules of public morality. "You mean I can invite anybody I want to and can keep out anybody I want to?" "Well, you can invite anybody you want. But don't throw anybody out who comes in uninvited. Tliis is, unless the uninvited behaves antisocially. In which case, notify the O.D., and we'll notify a Protector." 'How can I be master of my house if I can't choose my guests?" Morfiks said. "The citizen doesn't understand," said the O.D. "A citizen should not want to keep another citizen out of his house. Doing so is saying that a citizen doesn't love all citizens as brothers and sisters. It's not nice. We want  be nice, don't we?" Morfiks replied that had always been kriown as a nice guy, and he continued to listen to the O.D. But, on passing an area where a large field coated with the violet rubber broke the monotonous rows of houses, he said, "Looks like a children's playground with oil those swings, seesaws, games, trampolines. Where are the kids? And how -- "Only the Protectors know what happens to the children who come from We-Know-Where," said the O.D. "It's better, much, much better, not to ask them about it. In fact, it's very good not to see or talk to a Protector. "No, the playgrounds are for the amusement of us citizens. However, the Protectors have been thinking about taking them down. Too many citizens quarrel about who gets to use them, instead of amicably arranging predecedence and turns. They actually dare to fight each other even if fighting's forbidden. And they manage, somehow, to hurt each other. We don't want anybody to get hurt, do we?" "I guess not. What do you do for entertainment, otherwise?" "First things first, citizen. We don't like to use any of the personal pronouns except we, of course, and us and our and ours, I, me, they, you all differentiate. Better to forget personal differences here, heh? After all, we're just one big happy family, heh?" "Sure," Morfiks said. "But there must be times when a citizen has to point out somebody. How do I -- we -- identify someone guilty of, say, antisocial behavior?" "It doesn't matter," said the O.D. "Point out anyone. Yourself -- if you'll pardon the word -- for instance. We all share in the punishment, so it makes no difference." "You mean I have to be punished for someone else's crime? That isn't fairV "It may not seem so to us at first," said the O.D. "But consider. We're IF brothers, not only under the skin but on skin. If a crime is committed, the guilt is shared by all because, actually, all are responsible. And if punishment is given to all, then all will try to prevent crime. Simple, isn't it? And fair, too." "But you -- we -- said that the poleman would be given K.P. Does that mean we all go on K.P.?" "We did not commit a feflony, only a misdemeanor. If we do it again, we are a felon. And we suffer. It's the only nice thing to do, to share, right?" M orfiks did not like it. He was the one hit in the teeth, so why should he, the victim, have to take the punishment of the aggressor? But he said nothing. He had gotten far on We-Know-Where by keeping his mouth shut. It paid off; everybody had thought he was a nice guy. And he was a nice guy. There did seem to be one fallacy in the setup. If being a stool pigeon meant you, too, suffered, why turn anybody in? Wouldn't it be smarter to keep quiet and inflict the punishment yourself on the aggressor? "Don't do it, citizen," said the O.D. Morfiks gasped. The O.D. smiled and said, "No, we can't read minds. But every immigrant thinks the same thing when told about the system. Keeping quiet only results in double punishment. The Protectors -- whom this citizen has never seen face to face and doesn't want to -- have some means of monitoring our behavior. They know when we've been antisocial. The offender is, of course, given a certain amount of time in which to confess the injury. After that..." To keep himself from bursting into outraged denunciation of the system, Morfiks asked more questions. Yes, he would be confined to this neighborhood. If he traveled outside it, he might find himself in an area where his language was not spoken. That would result in his feeling inferior and different because he was a foreigner. Or, worse, superior. Anyway, why travel? Any place look like every place. Yes, he was free to discuss any subject as long as it did not concern We-Know-Where. Talking of that place led to discussions of -- forgive the term -- ones former identity and prestige. Besides, controversial subjects might arise and so lead to antisocial behavior. Yes, .this place was not constructed, physically, like We-Know-Where. The sun mit be a small body; some eggheads had estimated it to be only a mile wide. The run orbited around the strip, which was composed of the slides, two rivers and the city between the rivers, all of whidi hung in space. There was some speculation that his place was in a pocket universe the dimensions of which were probably not more than fifty miles wide and twenty high. It was shaped like an intestine, closed at one end and open at the other to infinity -- maybe. At this point, the O.D. cautioned Morfiks alwut the perils of intellectual speculation. This could be a misdemeanor or felony. In any event. eggheadedness was to be avoided. Pretending to be brainier your neighbor, to question the unquestionable, was unegalitarian. "There's no worry about that, Morfiks said. "If there's anything hateful and despicable, it's eggheadedness," "Oongratulaitions on skill in avoiding the personal," said the O.D. "We'll get along fine here." m T iey entered an immense building in which citizens were sitting on brass benches and eating off brass tables running the length of the building. The O.D. told Morfiks to sit down and eat. Afterwards, Morfiks could get to his new home. No. #, by asking directions. The O.D. left, and a citizen on K.P. served Morfiks soup in a big brass bowl, a small steak, bread and butter, salad vdth garlic dressing and a pitciher of water. The utensils and cup were of brass. He wondered where the food came from, but before he could ask, he was informed by a citizen on his right that he was not holding the spoon properly. After a few minutes of instruction and observation, Morfiks found himself able to master etiquette as practiced here. "Having the same table manners as everybody else makes a citizen a part of the group," said the instructor. "If a citizen eats differently, then a citizen is impolite. Impoliteness is antisocial. Get it?" "Got it," said Morfiks. After eating, he asked the citizen where he could locate No. #. "We'll show us," said the citiz "We live near that number." Together, they walked out of the hall and down the street. The sun was near the horizon now. Time must go faster, he thought, for it did not seem to him that he had been here for more than a few hours. Maybe the Protectors sent the sun around faster so the days would be shorter. They came to No. #, and Morfik's guide preceded him through swinging batwing doors into a large room with luminescent walls. There was a wide couchbed of the violet rubbery substance, several chairs cut out of solid blocks of the same stuff and a brass table in the center of the room. In one comer was a cubicle with a door. He investigated and found it to be the toilet. Besides the usual sanitary arrangements, the cubicle contained a shower, soap and four cups. There were no towels. "After a shower, step outside, dry off in the sun," the guide said. It looked at Morfiks for such a long time that Morfiks began to get nervous. Finally, the guide said, "I'll take a chance you're a pretty good Joe. What was your name on Eartii?" "John Smith," said Morfiks. "Play it cool, then," the guide said. "But you were a man? A male?" Morfiks nodded, and the guide said, "I was a girl. A woman, I #Thy tell me this?" he deVV manded susiHdously. IP put her hands on his shoulders. "Listen, Johnny boy," she whispered. "Those bastards think they got us behind the eight ball by putting us into these neuter bodies. But don't you believe it. There's more than one way of skinning a cat, if you know what I mean." "I don't," Morfiks said. almost touched his. A face in a mirror. "Inside, you're just the same," said change without changing you so much you're no longer the same person. If They do that. They aren't punishing the same person, are They? So, you wouldn't exist any more, would you? And being here wouldn't be fair, would it?" "I don't get it," Morfiks said. He step forwards. "What I mean is, you and me, we're still male and female inside. When They, whoever They are, stripped off our old bodies. They had to leave us our brains and nervous systems, didn't They? Otherwise, we'd not be ourselves, right? They fitted our nervous systems into these bodies, made a few adjustments here and there, like shortening or increasing nerve paths to take care of a stature different than the one you had on Earth. Or pumping something inside our skulls to take care of brains being too small for the skulls They gave us." "Yeah, yeah," Morfiks said. He pose, or he thought he did. He was breathing hard; a tingle was running over his skin; a warmth was spreading out from the pit of his stomach. heard that it was all in your head. And that's true. Of course, there's only so much you can do, and maybe it isn't as good as it was on YouKnow-Where. But it's better than nothing. Besides, like they say, none of it's bad. It's all good, some is jusi better than others." "You mean?" crooned, "and imagine I'm a woman. I'll tell you how I looked, how I was stacked. And you think about it Then you tell me how you looked, don't hold anything back, no need to be bashful here, describe everything down to the last detail. And I'll imagine how you were." "Think it'll work?" Morfiks said. "I know it will, baby. I've been around some since I came here." "Yeah, but what about the punishment?" said, scornfully, "Don't believe all that jazz, Johnny boy. Besides, even if They do catch you, it's worth it. Believe me, it's worth it." "If only I thought I could put one over on Them," Morfiks said. "It'd be worth taking any risk." Morfiks, though he had to repress revulsion, responded. After all, it was only the bald head that made They struggled fiercely and desperately; their kisses were as deep as possible. O away fram him. "It's worse than nothing," he panted. "I think something's going to happen, but it never quite does. It's no use. Now I feel awful." saying, "Don't give up so easy, honey. Rome wasn't erected in a day. Believe me, you can do it. But you got to have faith." "No, I'm licked," Morfiks said. "Maybe if you did look like a woman, instead of just a carbon copy of me. Then... no, that wouldn't be any good. I'm just not designed for the job; neither are you. They got us whe it hurts." twisted. "Where it hurts!" she shrilled. "Let me tell you, Buster, if you can't get your kicks being a man here, you can by hurting somebody! That's about all that's left!" "What do you mean?" Morfiks said. When she mastered herself, she said, "I'll tell you one good thing about looking like everybody else. Nobody knows what you really are inside. Or what you were on Earth. Well, I'll tell you about myself. "I was a man!" Morfiks sputtered. His fists clenched. He walked towards Billy. But he did not strike her... him... it. Instead, he smiled, and he said, "Well, let me tell you something. My real name was Juanita." Billy became pale, then red. "You... you!" T he next few days, Morfiks spent four hours each morning on the building of new houses. It was easy work. The walls and sections of the roof were brought in on wagons of brass pulled by citizens. Supervised by foremen, the laborers raised die wdls, secured the bottoms to the brass foundation of the city with a quick-drying glue and then fastened the walls together by gluing down strips of the violet stuff at the comers of the walls. Morfiks took his turn being a foreman for one day after he had gotten enou experience. He asked a citizen where the material for the houses and die rubber and the glue came from. "And where's the food grown?" The citizen looked around to make sure no one could hear them. "The original brass sheets and rubber are supposed to have originated from the blind end of this universe," he said. "It's spontaneously created, flows like lava from a volcano." "How can that be?" Morfiks said. The citizen shrugged. "How should I know? But if you remember one of the theories of creation back on You-Know-Where, matter was supposed to be continuously created out of nothing. So if hydrogen atoms can be formed from nothing, why not brass and rubber lava?" "But brass and rubber are organized configurations of elements and compounds!" "So what? The structure of this universe orders it." "And the food?" "It's brought up on dumbwaiters IB! through shafts which lead down to the underside. The peasants live there, citizen, and grow food and raise some kind of cattle and poultry." "Gee, I'd like that," Morfiks said. "Couldn't I get a transfer down there? I'd like to work with the soil. It'd be much more interesting than this." "If you were supposed to be a peasant, you'd have been transformed down there to begin with," the citizen said. "No, you're a citydweller, brother, and you'U stay one. You predetermined that, you know, in You-Know-Where." "I had obligations," Morfiks said. "What'd you expect me to do, shirk them?" "I don't expect nothing except to get out of here some day." "You mean we can get out? How? How?" "Not so loud with that yoM," the citizen growled. "Yeah, or so we heard, anyway. We never saw, a corpse but we heard about some of us dying. It isn't easy, though." 'Tell me how I can do it," Morfiks said. He grabbed the citizen's arm but the citizen tore himself loose and walked away swiftly. Morfiks started to follow him, then could not identify him because he had mingled with a dozen others. I n the afternoons, Morfiks spent his time playing shuffleboard, badminton, swimming or sometimes playing bridge. The brass plastic cards consisted of two thicknesses glued together. The backs were blank, and the fronts were punched with codes indicating the suits and values. Then, after the evening meals in the communal halls, there were always neighborhood committee meetings. These were to settle any disputes among the local citizens. Morfiks could see no sense in them other than devices to keep the attendants busy and tire them out so that they would be ready to go to bed. After hours of wrangling and speech-making, the disputants were always told that the fault lay equally on both sides. They were to forgive each other, shake hands and make up. Nothing was really settled, and Morfiks was sure that the disputants still burned with resentments despite their protestations that all was now well with them. What Morfiks found particularly interesting was the public prayer -- if it could be called that -- said by an O.D. before each meeting. It contained hints about the origins and reasons for this place and this life but was not specific enough to satisfy his curiosity. "Glory be to the Protectors, who give us this life. Blessedbe Mberty, equality and fraternity. Praise be to security, conformity and certainty. None of these did we have on WeKnow-Where, O Protectors, though we desired them mightily and strove always without success to attain them. Now we have them because we strove; inevitably we came here, glory be! For this cosmos was prepared for us and when we left that vale of slippery, slidery diaos, we squeezed through the walls and were formed in the template of passage, given these bodies, sexless, sinless, suitable. O Mighty Protectors, invisible but everywhere, we know that We-Know-Where is the pristine cosmos, the basic world, dirty, manyaspected, chaos under the form of seeming order, evil but necessary. The egg of creation, rotten but generative. Now, O Protectors, we are shaped forever in that which we cried for on that other unhappy universe..." There was more but most of it was a repetition in different words. Morfiks, sitting in the brass pews, his head bowed, looked up at the smooth hemisphere of the ceiling and walls and the platform on which the O.D. stood. If he understood the O.D., he was bound here forever, immortal, each day like the next, each month an almost unvarying image of the preceding, year after year, century after century, millenia after millenia. "Stability, Unseen but Everfelt Protectors. Stability! A place for everyone and everyone in a place!" The O.D. was saying that there were such things as souls, a configuration of energy which exactly duplicated the body of the person when he had exist on We-KnowWhere. It was indetectible by instruments there and so had been denied by many. But when one died there, the configuration was released from the attraction of the body, was somehow pushed from one universe into the next. existing within the same space as the original universe but polarized and at angles to it. A "soul" went to that imiveirse for which it had the most attraction. Indeed, the universe to which it traveled had actually been created by men and women. The total cumulative effect of desire for just such a place had generated this place. I f Morfiks interpreted the vague statements of the O.D. correctly, the structure of this universe was such that when a "soul" or cohesive energy configuration came through the "walls," it naturally took the shape in which all citizens found themselves. It was like hot plastic being oured into a mold. Morfiks dared question a citizen who claimed to have been here for a hundred years. "The O.D. said all questions have been settled, everything is explained. What's explained? I don't understand any more about the origins or reasons for things here than I did on We-Know-Where." "So what's new?" the citizen said. "How can you understand the ununderstandable? The main difference here is that you don't ask questions. There are many answers, I true, to one question, and this place is one answer. So quit bugging me. You trying to get me -- uh, us -- into trouble? Hey, O.D.!" Morfiks hurried off and lost himself in a crowd before he could be identified. He burned with resentment at the implications of this world. Why should he be here? Sure, on We-Know-Where he had stayed with one company for # years, he had been a good family man, a pal to his kids, a faithful husband, a pillar of the best church in the neighborhood, ihad paid off ibis mortgages, joined tiie lions Elk, and Moose the Kiwanis, the Junior Oiamber of Commerce and 'been a hard worker for the Democrats. His father before him had been a Democrat, and though he had had many misgivings about some of the policies, he had always followed the party line. Anyway, he was a right-wing Democrat, which made him practically the same thing as a left-wing Republican. He read the Readers Digest, Look, Life, Time, Wall Street Journal, Saturday Evening Post, and had always tried to keep up with the bestsellers as recommended by the local newspaper reviewer. All this, not because he -eally wanted it but because he felt that he owed it to his wife and kids and for the good of society. He had hoped that when he went "over yonder" he would be rewarded with a life with more freedom, with a number of unlimited avenues forthe things he really wanted to do. What were those things? He didn't remember now, but he was sure that they were not what was available here. "There's been a mistake," he thought. "I don't belong here. Everything's all screwed up. I shouldn't be here. This is an error on somebody's part. I got to get out. But how can I get out of here any more than I could get out of We-KnowWhere? There the only way out was suicide and I couldn't take that, my family would have been disgraced. Besides, I didn't feel like it "And here I can't kill myself. My body's too tough and there's nothing, no way for me to commit suicide. Drowning? That won't work. The river's too well guarded, and if you did slip by the guards long enough to drown, you'd be dragged out in no time at and resuscitated. And then punished." IV O n the fourth night, what he had been dreading happened. His punishment He woke up in the middle of the night with a dull toothache. As the night went on, the ache became shar. By dawn, he wanted to scream. Suddenly, the batwings on his doorway flew open, and one of his neighbors (he presumed) stood in the room. Heshe was breathing hard and holding hisher hand to hisher jaw. "Did you do it?" said the neighbor in a shrill voice. "Do what?" Morfiks said, rising from the couch-bed. "Antisocial act," the intruder said. "If the culprit confesses, the pain will cease. After a while, that is." "Did you do it?" Morfiks said. For all he knew, he might be talking to Billy again. "Not me. listen, newcomers often -- always -- commit crimes because of a mistaken notion a crime can't be detected. But the crime is always found out." "There are newcomers who aren't bom criminals," Morfiks said. Despite his pain, he intended to keep control to. "Then you, and I mean you, won't confess?" "The pain must be breaJdng some people apart," said Morfiks. "Otherwise, some wouldn't be using the second person singular." "Singular, heUI" the citizen said, breaking two tabus with two words. "Okay, so it doesn't make much difference if you or me or the poor devil down the street did it. But I got a way of beating the game." "And so bringing down more punishment on us?" "No! Listen, I was a dental assistant on We-Know-Where. I know for a fact that you can forget one pain if you have a greater." Morfiks laughed as much as his tooth would permit him, and he said, "So, what's the advantage there?" The citizen smiled as much as his toothache would permit. "What I'm going to propose will hurt you. But it'll end up in a real kick. You'll enjoy your pain, get a big thrill out of it." "How's that?" Morfiks said, thinking that the citizen talked too much like Billy. "Our flesh is tough so we can't hurt each other too easily. But we can be hurt if we try hard enough. It takes perseverence, but then what doesn't that's worthwhile?" The citizen shoved Morfiks onto the couch, and, before Morfiks could protest, he was chewing on his leg. "You do the same to me," the citizen mumbled between bites. "I'm telling you, it's great! You've never had anything like it before." Morfiks stared down at the bald head and the vigorously working isms. He ooiuld feel a little pain, and ins itoothadie did seem to have eased. He said, "Never had anything like what?" "Like blood," the citizen said. "After you've been doing this long enough, you'll get drunk on it," "I don't know. There, uh, seems something wrong about this." he citizen stopped gnawing. "You're a greenhorn! Look at it this way. The protectors tell us to love one another. So you should love me. And you can show your love by helping me get rid of this toothache. And I can do the same for you. After a while, you'll be like all of us. You won't give a damn; you'll do anything to stop the pain." Morfiks got into position and bit down hard. The flesh felt rubbery. Then he stopped and said, "Won't we get another toothache tomorrow because of what we're doing now?" "We'U get an ache somewhere. But forget about tomorrow." "Yeah," Morfiks said. He was beginning to feel more pain in his leg. "Yeah. Anyway, we can always plead we were just being social." The citizen laughed and said, "How social can you get, huh?" Morfiks moaned as his crushed nerves and muscles began to bleed. After a while, he was screaming between his teeth, but he kept biting. If he was being hurt, he was going to hurt the citizen even worse. And what the heU, he was beginning to feel a reasonable facsimile to that which he had known up The world of science does not admit the existence of demons -- but the demons don't carel B aines, president of Console dated Warfare Service, the nitions subsidiary of an internation'al chemical and dye cartel, has apmagician of the highest repute, for a demonstration of his abilities. Accompanied by his executive assistant, ing skeptic, he visits Ware's rented palazzo in the Italian resort town of Positano, where Ware provides a minor exhibition of alchemy, changing two tears successively into blood, gold and lead under controlled circumstances. This does not satisfy Baines, who has something much bigger in mind. Ware warns him that all magic, regardless of degree, is based upon the invocation of angels or demons -- mostly the latter -- and that it is IF  Sfiml  expensive, dangerous and difficult. Baines already knows this from an earlier visit to Monte Albano, a sanctuary of white magicians. Strictly as a further test, Baines commissions Ware to procure by magic the death of the current Governor of California. Ware agrees. Ginsberg, a man of slightly odd tastes, is intrigued by Wares obvious confidence and in a private interview attempts to ask a favor of the magician, but doesnt succeed in specifying what it is. Ware offers him the use of a succubus, but is refused. At Monte Albano, the white magicians have divined something of the nature of Bainesfs forthcoming major commission and have reason to believe it may be a major dis aster for the whole world. Under the terms of the Grand Covenant Illustrated by Morrow under which dll magic operates, they are entitled to impose upon Ware a white magician as an observer, providing that the white magician does not interfere in any way with Ware's operations. They choose skilled and blameless man, who does not relish the assignment. In the meantime, Baines, who has returned to Rome, receives news of the death of the Governor of California, as specified. He decides to return to Posifano, taking with him this time not only Jack Ginsberg, but also a scientist of his firm, DR. Thanks to various delays en route, Baines, Ginsberg, Hess and Fr. Domenico all arrive for the next invocation of Hell at the same time -- during the Christmas season. VI P, Theron Ware was tineif formal and edgy. The HKnk despite his apsee what the magician looked like and had been irrationally disappointed ito d him not much out of the ordiinary run of intellectuals. Except for the tonsure, of course; like Baines, Fr. Domenico found that startling. Also, unlike Baines, he found it upsetting, because he knew the reason for it -- not that Ware intended any mockery of his pious counterparts, but bemuse demons, given a moment of inattention, were prone to semng one by the hair. "Under the Covenant," Ware told him in excellent Latin, "I have no choice but to receive you, of course. Father. And under other circumstances I might even have enjoyed discussing the Art with you, even though we are of opposite schools. But this is an inconvenient time for me. I've got a very important cHent here, os you've seen, and I've already been notified that what he wants of me is likely to be extraordinarily lambitious." "I shan't interfere in any way," Fr. Domenico said. "Even ould I wish to, which obviously I shall, I know very well that any such interference would cost me all my protections." "I was sure you understood that, but nonetheless I'm glad to hear you say so," Ware said. "However, your very presence here is an embiassment -- not only because I'll have to explain it to my client, but also because it changes the atmosphere unfavorably and will make my operations more difficult I can ohly hope, in defiance of all hospitality, that your mission will be speedily satisfied." "I can't bring myself to regret the difficulty, since I only wish I could make your operations outright impossible. The b I can proffer As for the length of my stay, that depends wholly on what it is your client turns out to want and how long that takes. I am charged with seeing the matter through to its conclusion." "A prime nuisance," Ware said. "I suppose I should be grateful that I haven't been blessed with this kind of attention from Monte Albono before; evidently what Mr. Baines intends is even bigger than he thinks it is. I conclude without much cerebration that you know something about it I don't know." "It will be an immense disaster, I can tell you that." # T Tmm. From your point of Xl view, but not necessarily from mine, possibly. I don't suppose you're prepared to offer any fuer information -- on the chance, say, of dissuading me?" "Certainly not," Fr. Domenico said indignantly. "If eternal damnation hasn't dissuaded you long before this. I'd be a fool to hope I'd be able to." "Well," Ware said, 'hut you are, after all, charged with the cure of souls; and unless the Church has done another flipflop since the last IP Congress, it is still also a mortal sin to assume that any man is certainly damned -- even me." That argument was potent, it had to be granted; but Fr. Domenico had not been trained in casuistry, and that by Jesuits, for nothing. "I'm a monk, not a priest," he said. "And any information I give you would, on the contrary, almost certainly be used to abet e evil, not turn it aside. I don't find the choice a hard one under the circumstances." "Then let me suggest a more practical consideration," Ware said. "I don't know yet what Baines intends, but I do know well enough that I am not a Power myself -- only an Agent. I have no desire to bite off more than I can chew." "Now you're jusit wheedling," Fr. Domenico said, with energy. "Knowing your own limitations is not an exercise at which I or anyone else can help you. You'll just have to weigh (tibem in the light of Mr. Baines's commission, whatever that proves to be. In the meantime, I shall tell you nothing." "Very weU," Ware said, rising. "I will be a little more generous with my information. Father, than you have been with yours. I will tell you that you will be well advised to adhere to every letter of the Covenant. One step over the line, one toe, and  shall have you -- and hardly any outcome in this world would give me greater pleasure. I'm sure I make myself clear." Fr. Domenico could think of no reply; but none seemed to be necessary. A s Ware had sensed, Baines was indeed disturbed by the presence of Fr. Domenico and made a point of bringing it up as the first order of business. After Ware had explained the monk's mission and the Covenant under which it was being conducted, however, Baines felt somewhat relieved. "Just a nuisance, os you say, since he can't actually intervene," he decided. "In a way, I suppose my bringing Dr. Hess here with me is comparable -- he's only an observer, too, and fundamentally he's probably just as hostile to your world-view as this holier-than-us fellow is." "He's not significantly holier than us," Ware said with a slight smile. "I know something he doesn't know, too; he's in for a surprise in the next world. However, for the time being we're stuck with 'him -- for how long depends upon you. Just what is it you want this time, Mr. Baines?" "Two things, one depending on die other. The first is the death of Albert Stockhausen." "The anti-matter theorist? That would be too bad; I rather like him, and besides, some of the work he does is of direct interest to me." "You refuse?" "No, not immediately anyhow, but I'm now going to ask you what I promised I would ask on this occasion. What are you aiming at, anyhow?" "Something very long-term. For the present, my lethal intentions for Dr. Stockhausen are strictly businessbased. He's nibbling at tibe edges of a controls completely. It's a manopoly of knowledge we don't want to see broken." "Do you think you can keep anything secret that's based in natur law? After the McCarthy fiasco I should have supposed that any intelligent American would know better. Surely Dr. Stockhausen can't be just verging on some mere technicality -- something your firm might eventually bracket with a salvo of process patents." "No, it's in the realm of natural law and hence not patentable at all," Baines admitted. "And we already know that it can't be concealed forever. But we need about five years' grace to make the best use of it, and we know that nobody else but Stockhausen is even close to it. Barring accidents, of course. We ourselves have nobody of Stockhausen's caliber; we just fell over it, and somebody else inigbt do that. However, that's highly unlikely." "I see. Well... the project does have an attractive side. I think it's quite possible that I can persuade Father Domenico that this is the project he came to observe. Obviously it can't be -- I've run many like it and never attracted Monte Albano's interest to this extent before -- but given sufficient show of great preparations, and difficulty of execution, he might be deluded, and go home." "That would be useful," Baines agreed. "The question is could he be deceived?" "It's worth trying. The task would in fact be difficult -- and qtiite expensive." "Why?" Jack Ginsberg said, sitting bolt upright in his carved Florentine chair so suddenly as to make bis suit squeak against the silk upholstery. "Don't tell us he affects thousas of other people. Nobody ever oast any votes for him that I know of." "Shut up. Jack." wait, it's a reasonable question," Ware said. "Dr. Stockhausen does have a large famDy, which I have to take into account. And, as I've told you, I've taken some pleasure in his company on a few occasions -- not enough to balk at having him sent for, but enough to help run up the price. "But that's not the major impediment. The fact is that Dr. Stockhausen, like a good many theoretical physicists these days, is a devout Qxan -- and furthermore, he has only a few venial sins to account for, nothing in the least meriting the attention of Hell. I'll check that again with Someone who knows, but it was accurate as of six months ago, and I'd be astonished if there's been any change. He's not a member of any formal congregation, but even so he's nobody a demon could reasonably have come for him -- and there's a chance that he might be defended against any direct assault." "Successfully?" "It depends on the forces involved. Do you w!ant to risk a pitched battle that would tear up half of Duesseldorf? It might be cheaper just to mail him a bomb." IP "No, no. And I don't want anything that might look like some kind of laboratory accident -- thaifd be just the kind of clue that would set everybody else in his field haring after what we want to keep hiddecu The whole secret lies in the fact that once Stockhausen knows what we know, he could create a major explosion with -- well, with the equivalent of a blackboard and two pieces of chalk. Isn't there any other way?" "Men being men, there's always another way. In this instance, thou. I'd have to have him tempted. I know at least one promising avenue. But he might not fall; and even if he did, as I think he would, it would take several months and a lot of close monitoring. Which wouldn't be altogether intolerable either, since it would greatly help to mislead Father Domenico." "What would it cost?" Jack Ginsberg said. Entirely a contingent fee this time, since I can't see that there'd be any important out-of-pocket money needed. If there is. I'll absorb it." "That's nice," Jack said. Ware took no notice of the feeble sarcasm. Baines put on his adjudicatory face, but inwardly he was well satisfied. As a further test, the death of Dr. Stockhausen was not as critical as that of Gov. Rogan, but it did have the merit of being in an entirely different social sphere; the benefits to Consolidated Warfare Service would be real enough, so that Baines had not had to counterfeit a motive, which might have been detected by Ware a led to premature further questions; and finally, the objections Ware had rais, while in part unexpected, had been entirely consistent with everything the magician had said befdr eveiything that he appeared to be, everything that his style proclaimed, despite the fact that he was obviously a complex man. Good. Baines liked consistent intellectuals and wished that he had more of them in his organization. They were always fanatics of some sort when the chips were down, and hence presented him with some large and easily grasped handle predsely when he had most need of it. Ware hadn't exhibited his handle yet, but he would; he would. "It's worth it," Baines said, without more than a decorous two seconds of apparent hesitation. 'T do want to remind you, though. Dr. Ware, that Dr. Hess here is one of my conditions. I want you to allow "Oh, very gladly," Ware said, with (another smile that, this time, Baines found disquieting. It seemed false, even unctuous, and Ware was too much in command of himself to have meant the falsity not to be noticed. "I'm sure he'll enjoy it. You can all watch, if you like. I may even invite Faer Domenico." vm D r. Hess arrived punctually the next morning for his appointment to be shown Ware's workroom and equipment. Greeting him with a professional nod -- "Coals to Newcastle, biingiiig iMitford and me up here for a tertitary," Hess found himself quoting in silent inanity -- Ware led the way to a pair of heavy brocaded hangings behind his desk, which parted to reveal a heavy brass-bound door of what was apparently cypress wood. Among its fittings was a huge knocker with a face a little like the mask of tragedy, except that the eyes had cat-like pupils in them. Hess had thought himself prepared to notice everything and be surprised by nothing, but he was taken aback when the expression on the knocker changed, slightly but inarguably, when Ware touched it. Apparently expwting bis startlement. Ware said without looking at him: "There's nothing in here really worth stealing, but if anything were taken it would cost me a tremendous amount of trouble to replace it, no matter how worthless it would prove to the thief. Also, there's the problem of contamination. Just one ignoiant touch could destroy the work of months. It's rather like a bacteriology laboratory in tha;t respect Hence the guardian." "Obviously there can't be a standard supply house for your tools," Hess agreed, recovering his composure. "No, that's not even theoretioailly possible. The operator must make everything himself -- not as easy now as it was in the Middle Ages, when most educated men had the requisite skills as a matter of course. Here we go." The door swung back as if being opened from the inside, slowly and soundlessly. At first it opened on a deep scarlet gloom; but Ware touched a switch, and with a brief rushing sound, like waiter, sunlight flooded the room. Immediately Hess could see why Ware had rented this particular palazzo and no other. The room was an immense refectory of Sienese design, which in its heyday must often have banqueted as many as thirty nobles; there could not be another one half as big in Positano, though the palazzo as a whole was smaller than some. There were mullioned windows overhead, under the ceiling, running around all four walls, and the sunlight was pouring through two ranks of them. They were flanked by pairs of red velvet drapes, unpaittemed, hung from traverse rods; it had been these that Hess had heard pulling back when Ware had flipped the wall-switch. At the rear of the room was another door, a broad one also covered by hangings, which Hess supposed must lead to a parLtry or kitchen. To the left of this was a medium-sized modem electric furnace and beside it an anvil bearing a hammer which looked almost too heavy for Ware to lift. On the other side of the furnace from the anvil were several graduated tubs which obviously served as quenching baths. To the right of the door was a black-topped chemisifs bench, complete with sinks, running water and the usual noz#des for illumiiiaiting gas, vacuum and compressed air; Ware must have had to install his own pumps for all of these. Over ib: mm mm pR m#b ll the bench on the back wall were shelves of reagents; to the right, on the side wall, ranks of drying pegs, some of whidh bore contorted pieces of glassware, others, coils of rubber tubing. Farther along that wall toward the front was a lectern bearing a book as big as an unabridged dictionary, bound in red leather and closed and locked with a strap. There was a circular design chased in gold on the front of the book, but at this distance Hess could not make out what it was. The lectern was flanked by two standing candlesticks with fat candles in them. The candles had been extensively used, although there were shaded electric light fixtures around the walls, too, and the small writing table next to the lectern born a Tensor lamp. On the table was another book, smaller but almost as thick, which Hess recognized at once: the Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, #th Edition, as standd a laWatory fixture as a test tube, and a rank of quill pens and inkhoms. CC'VJow you can see something of what I meant by requisite skSUs," Ware said. "Of course I blow modh of my own glassware, but any oriSmry chemist does that But should I need a new sword, for instance -- " he pointed toward the electric furnace -- "I have to forge it myself; I couldn't just pick one up at a costume shop. Fd have to do a good job of it, too. As a modem writer says somewhere, the only really serviceable symbol for a sharp sword is a sharp sword." "Uhm," Hess said, continuing to look around. Against the left wall, opposite the lectern, was a long, heavy table, bearing a neat ranking of objects ranging in length from six inches to about three feet, all closely wrapped in red silk. The wrappers had writing on them, but again Hess could not decipher it. Beside the table, affixed to the wall, was a flat sword-cabinet. A few stools completed the furnishings; evidently Ware seldom worked sitting down. The floor was parqueted and, toward the center of the room, still bore traces of marks in colored chalks, considerably scuffed, which brought from Ware a grunt. "The wrapped instruments are all prepared and Fd rather not expose them," the magioian said, walking toward 'the sword-rack, "but of course I keep a set of spares and I can show you those." He opened the cabinet door, revealing la set of blades hung in order of size. There were thirteen of them. Some were obviously swards; others looked more like shoemaker's tools. "The order in which you make these is important, too," Ware said, "because as you can see, most of them have writing on them, and it makes a difference what instrument does the writing. Hence I began with the uninscribed instrument, this one, the bolline or sickle, which is also one of the most often used. Rituals differ, but the one I used requires starting with la piece of unused steel. It's fired three times and then quenched in a mixture of magpie's blood and the juice of a herb called fbirole." IF "The Grimorium Verum says mole's blood and pimpernel juice," Hess observed. "Ah, good, you've been doing some reading. I've tried that, and it just doesn't seem to give quite as good an edge." "I should think you could get a still better edge by finding out what specific compounds were essential and using those," Hess said. "You'll remember that Damascus steel used to be tempered by plunging the sword into the body of a slave. It worked, but modem quenching baths are a lot better -- and in your case you wouldn't have to be constantly having to trap elusive animals in large numbers." "The analogy is incomplete," Ware said. "It would hold if tempering were the only end in view, or if the operation were only another observance of Paracelsus' rule, Alterius non sit qui suns esse potest -- doing for yourself what you can't trust others to do. Both are practical ends that I might satisfy in some quite different way. But in magic the blood sacrifice has lan additional function; what we might call the tempering of, not just the steel, but also the operator." "I see. And I suppose it has some symbolic functions, too." "In Goeitic art, everything does. In the same way, as you probably also know from your reading, the forging and quenching is to be done on a Wednesy in either the first or the eighth of the day hours, or the third or the tenth of the nigjht hours, under a full Moon. There is again an immediate practical interest being served here -- for I assure you that the planetary hours do indeed effect affairs on Earth -- but also a psychological one, the obedience of the operator in every step. The Grimoires and other texts are at best so confused and contradictory that it's never possible to know completely what steps are essential and what aren't, and research into the subject seldom makes for a long life." "All right," Hess said. "Go on." VV next to be shaped and fitted, again in a particular way at a particular hour and then perfected at still another day and hour. By the way, you mentioned a different steeping bath; if you use that ritual, the days and the hours are also different, and again the question is, what's essential and what isn't? Thereafter, there's a conjuration to be recited, plus three salutations and a warding spell; then the instrument is sprinkled, wrapped and fumigated -- not in the modem sense, I mean it's perfumed -- and is ready to use. After it's used, it has to be exorcised and rededicated, and that's the difference between the wrapped tools on the table and those hanng here in the rack. "I won't go into detail about the preparation of the other instruments. The next one I make is the pen of the Art, followed by toe inkpots and toe inks, for obvious reasons; and, for toe same reasons, toe buiin or graver. The pen is on my desk; this fitted needle here in toe burin. The rest, going down toe line as they hang here rather than in order of mamif aoture, are the rwhite-handled knife, which like the boUine is nearly an all-purpose tool; the blackhandled knife, used almost solely for inscribing the circle; the stylet, efly for preparing the wooden knives used in tanning; the wand or blasting rod, which describes itself; the lancet, again self-descriptive; the staff, a restraining instrument analogous to a shepherd's; and lastly the four swords, one for the master, the other three for his assistants, if any." Hess leaned forward, with a side glance at Ware for permission, to inspect the writing on the graven instruments. Some of them were easy enough to make out: on the sword of the master, for instance, the word Michael appeared on the pommel, and on the blade, running from point to hilt, Elohim Gibor. On the other hand, on the handle of the white-handled knife was engraved the following: Hess pointed to this and to a different but equally baffling inscription which was duplicated on the handles of the stylet and ithe lancet. "What do those mean?" "Mean? They can hardly be said to mean anything any more. They're greatly degenerate Hebrew characters, originally comprising various Divine Names. I could tell you what the Names were once, but the characters have no content any more -- they just have to be there." "Superstition," Hess said, recalling his earlier conversation with Baines, interpreiting Ware's remark about ChrositiDas. 'Tiredsely, in the pure sense. The process is as fundamental to the Art as evolution is to biology. Now if you'll step this way I'll show you some other aspects that may interest you." He led the way diagonally across the room to the ohemisfs bench, pausing to rub irritatedly at the chalk marks with the sole of his slipper. "I suppose a modem translation of that aphorism of Paracelsus," he said, "would be, 'You just can't get good servants any more.' Not to ply mops, anyhow... Now: most of these reagents will be familar to you, but some of them are special to the Art. This, for instance, is exorcised waiter, which as you see I need in great quantities; it has to be river-water to start with. The quicklime is for tanning; some laymen, de Camp for instance, will tell you that 'virgin parchment' simply means parchment that's never been written on befbre, but that's not so -- all the Grimoires insist that it must be the skin of a male animal which has never engendered, and the Clavicula Salomonis sometimes insists upon imbom parchment, or the caul of a newborn child. For tanning I also have to grind my own salt, after the usual rites are said over it. The candles I use have to be made of the first wax taken from a new hive, and so do my almadels. If I need images, I have to make them of earth dug up with my bare 'bands and reduced to a paste without any tool. And so on. "I've mentioned aspersion and IF fumigation, in other words sprinkling and perfuming. Sprinkling has to be done with an laspergillus, a bundle of herbs like a faggot or bouquet garni; the herbs differ from rite to rite, and you can see I've got a fair selection here -- mint, marjory, rosemary, vervain, periwinkle, sage, valerian, ash, bash, hyssop. In fumigation the most commonly used scents are these: aloes, incense, mace, benzoin, storax; also, it's sometimes necessary to make a stench -- for instance in the fumigation of a caul -- and I've got quite a repertoire of those." Ware turned away abruptly, nearly treading on Hess' toes, and strode toward the exit. Hess had no choice but to follow him. "Everything involves special preparation," he said over his shoulder, "even including the firewood if I want to make ink for pacts. But there's no point in my cataloguing things further, since I'm sure you thoroughly understand the principles." H ess scurried after, but he was still several paces behind the magician when the window-drapes swished closed and the red gloom was reinstated. Ware stopped and waited for him, and the moment he was through the door, closed it and went back to his seat behind the big desk. Hess, puzzled, walked around the desk and took one of the Florentine chairs reserved for guests or clients. "Most illuminating," he said politely. "Thank you." "You're welcome." Ware rested his elbows on the desk and put his fingertips over his mouth, looking down thougthitfully. There was a sprinkle of perspiration over his brow and shaven head, and he seemed more than usually pale; also, Hess noticed after a moment, he seemed to be trying, without major effort to control his breathing. Hess watched curiously, wondering what' could have upset him. After only a moment, however. Ware looked up at him and volunteered the explanation, with an easy half-smile. "Excuse me," he said. "From apprenticeship on, we're trained to secrecy. I'm perfectly convinced that it's unnecessary these days, and has been since the Inquisition died, but old oaths are the hardest to reason away. No discourtesy intended." "No offense taken," Hess assured him. "However, if you'd radier rest -- " "No, I'll have ample rest in the next three days and be incommunicado too, preparing for Mr. Baines's commission. So if you've further questions, now's the time for them." "Well... I have no further technical questions, for the moment. But I am curious about a question Baines asked you during your first meeting -- I needn't pretend, I'm sure, that I haven't heard the tape. I wonder just as he did what your motivation is. I can see from what you've shown me, and from everything you've said, that you've ten colossal amounts of trouble to perfect yourself in your Art and that you believe in it; so it doesn't matter for the present whether or not I believe in it, only whether or not I believe in you. And your laboraitory isn't a sham; it isn't here solely for extortion's sake; it's a place where a dedioaited man works at something he thinks important. I confess I came to scoff -- and to expose you, if I could -- and I still can't credit that lany of what you do works, or ever did work. But I accept that you so believe." Ware gave him a half-nod. "Thank you; go on." 'Tve no farther to go but the fundamental question. You don't really need money; you don't seem to collect art or women; you're not out to 'be President of ie World or the power behind some such person -- and yet by your lights you have damned yourself eternally to make yourself expert in this highly peculiar subject. What on earth for?" "I could easily duck that question," Ware said slowly. "I could point out, for instance, that under certain circumstances I could prolong my life to seven hundred years, and so might not be worrying just yet about what might happen to me in the next world. "Or else I could easily point out what you already know from the texts, that every magician hopes to cheat Hell in the end -- as several did who are now nicely ensconced on the calendar las authentic saints. "But the real fact of the matter. Dr. Hess, is that I think what I'm after is worth the risk, and what I'm after is something you understand perfectly, and for which you've sold your own soul, or if you prefer an only slightly less loaded word. your integrity, to Mr. Baines: Knowledge. "Uhmn. Surely there must be easier ways -- " "You don't believe that. You think there may be more reliable ways, such as scientific method, but you don't think they're any easier. I myself have the utmost respect for scientific method, but I know that it doesn't offer me the kind of knowledge I'm looking for -- which is also knowledge about the make-up of the universe and how it is run, but not a kind that any exact science can provide me with, because the sciences don't accept that some of the forces of nature are Persons. Well, but some of them are; and without dealing with those Persons I shall never know any of the things I wiant to know. "This kind of research is just as expensive as underwriting a gigantic particle-accelerator. Dr. Hess, and obviously I'll never get any government to underwrite it. But people like Mr. Bjaines can, if I can find enough of them. Just as they undenvrite you. "Eventually, I may have to pay for what I've learned with a jewel no amount of money could buy. Unlike Macbeth, I know one cant 'skip the life to come.' But even if it does come to that. Dr. Hess -- and probably it will -- I'll take my knowledge with me, and it will have been worth the price. "In other words -- just as you suspected -- I'm a fanatic." To his own dawning astonishment, Hess said slowly: "Yes. Yes, of course. So am I." IF DC F ather Domenico lay in ibis strange bed on his stalling sleeplessly up ait the pink stucco ceiling. Tonight was the nighit he had come for. Ware's three days of fasting, lustration and prayer -- surely a blasphemous burlesque of such observances as the urch knew them, in intent if not in content -- were over, and he had pronounced himself ready to act Apparently, he still intended to allow Baines and his two repulsive henchmen to observe the conjuration, but if he had ever had any iintention of including Fr. Domenico in the ceremony, he had thought better of it. That was fnistrating, as well as a great relief; but in his place, Fr. Domenico would have done the same thing. Yet even here, excluded from the scene and surrounded by every protection he had been able to muster, Fr. Domenico could feel the preliminary oppression, Mke the dead weather fore an earthquake. There was always a similar hush and tension in the air just before the invocatian of one of the celestial powers, but with none of these overtones of maleficence and disaster...  or would someone ignorant of what was actually proposed be able to tell the difference? That was a disquieting thought in itself, but one that could practically be left to Bishop Berkeley and the logical positivists. Fr. Domenico knew what was going on: a ritual of supernatural murder; and he could not help but tremble. Somewhere in the palazzo there was the silvetry sound of a small dock strikinig, distant and sweet. The tune was inow #:# pjn., the fourth hour of Saitum on the day of Saturn, the hour most suitable -- as even the blameless and pitiable Peter de Abano had written -- for experiments of hatred, enmity and discord; and Fr. Domenico, under the Covenant, was forbidden even to pray for failure. e clock, that two-handed engine that stands behind the Door, struck, and struck no more, and Ware drew the brocade hangs aside. Up to now, Baines despite himself had felt a little foolish in the girdled white linen garment Ware insisted upon, but he cheered up upon seeing Jack Ginsberg and Dr. Hess in the same vestments. As for Ware, he was either oomioal or terrible, depending upon what view one took of the proceedings, in his white leather shoes letter in dnnaibar and his paper crown bearing the word EL. He was girdled with a belt about three inches wide which seemed to have been made from the skin of some hairy, lion-colored animal. Into the gire was thrust a redwrapped, sceptorlike object which Baines identified tentativdy from a prior description of Hess's as the wand of power. "And now we must vest ourselves," Ware said, almost in a whisper. "Dr. Baines, on the desk you will find three garments. Take one, and then another, and 'mother; give two to Dr. Hess and Mr. Ginsberg; don the other yourself." Baines picked up the huddle of cloth. It turned out to be an alb. 'Take up your vestmenits lift them in your hands above your heads. At the Amen, let them fall. Now: "Anton, Amator, Emites, Theby the virtue of these most holy angelic names do I clothe myself, O Lord of Lords, in my Vestments of Power, that so  may fulfill, even unto their term, all things which I desire to effect (through Thee, Ideodaniach, Pamor, Plaior, Lord of Lords, Whose kingdom and rule endureth forever and ever. Amen The garments rustled down, and Ware opened the door. The room beyond was only vaguely lit with yeUow candle-lit and at first bore almost no resemblance to the chamber Dr. Hess had described to Baines. As his eyes accommodated, however, Baines was gradually able to see that it wias the same room, its margins now indisitinct and its furniture slightly differently ordered; only the lectern and the candlesticks -- there were now four of them, not two -- were moved out from the walls and hence more or less visible. But it was still confusing, a welter of flickering shadows and slightly sickening perfume, most unlike the blueprint of the room that Baines had erected in his mind from Hess's drawing. The thing that dominated the real room itself was also a drawing, not any piece of furniture or detail of architecture: a vast double circle on the floor in what appeared to be whitewash. Between the concentric circles were written innumerable words, or what might have been words, in characters which might have been Hebrew, Greek, Etruscan or even Elvish for all Baines could tell; some few were also in Roman lettering, but they too were names he could not recognize; and around the outside of the outer circle were written astrological signs in their zodiacal order, but with Saturn to the north. At the very center of this figure was a rule square about two feet on a side, from each comer of which proceeded chalk, conventionalized crosses which did not look in the least Christian. Proceeding from each of these, but not connected to them, were four six-pointed stars, verging on the innermost circle. The stars at the east, west and south each had a Tau scrawled at its center; presumably the Satummost did too, but if so it could not be seen, for the heart of that emplacement was hidden by what seem to be a fat puddle of stippled fur. Outside the circles, at the oth compass-points, were drawn four pentagrams, in the chords of which stood the candles. Farthest away from all this -- about two feet outside the circle and three feet over it to the north -- was a circle enclosed by a triangle, also much lettered inside and out; Baines could just see that the characters in the angles read, NI CH EL. "Tanists," Ware whispered, pointing into the circle, "take your places." IP He weDit toward the long table Hess had described and vaoished in the gloom. As instructed Baines walked into the circle and stood in the western star; Hess followed, taking the eastern; and Ginsberg, very slowly, crept into the southern. To the north, the puddle of fur revolved once widdershins and resettled itself with an unsettling sigh, making Jack Ginsberg jump. Baines inspected it belatedly. Probably it was only a cat, as was supposed to be traditional, but in this light it looked more like a badger. Whatever it was, it was obscenely fat. W are reappeared, carrying a sword. He entered the circle, closed it with the point of the sword, and proceeded to the central square, where he lay the sword across the toes of his white shoes; then he drew the wand from his belt and unwrapped' it, laying the red silk cloth across his shoulders. "From now on," he said, in a normal, even voice, "no one is to move." From somewhere inside his vestments, he produced a small crucible, which he set at his feet before the recumbent sword. Small blue flames promptly began to rise from the bowl, and Ware cast incense into it. He said: "Holocaust. Holocaust. Holocaust." The flames in the brazier rose slighitly. "We are to call upon Marchosias, a great marquis of the Descending Hierarchy," Ware said in the same conversational voice. "Before he fell, he belonged to the Onto of Dominations among the angels and thinks to return to the Seven Thrones after twelve hundred yeiars. His virtue is that he gives true answers. Stand fast, all." With a sudden motion. Ware thrust the end of his rod into the surging flames of the brazier. At once, the air of the hall rang with a long, frightful chain of woeful howls. Above the bestial clamor. Ware shouted: "I abjure thee, great Marchosias, as the agent of the Emperor Lucifer, and of his beloved son Lucithe pact I have with thee, and by the Names Adonay, Eloim, JehoArios, Pithona, Magots, Sylphae, Tabots, Salamandrae, Gnomus, Terrae, Coelis, Godens, Aqua, and by the whole hierarchy of superior intelligences who shall constrain thee against they will, venite, venite, submiritillor MarchosiasI" The noise rose higher, and a green steam began to come off the brazier. It smelt like someone was burning hart's horn and fishgah. But there was no other answer. His face white and cruel, Ware rasped over the tumult: "I adjure thee, Marchosias, by the pact, and by the Names, appear instanter!" He plunged the rod a second time into the flames. The room screamed; but still there was no apparition. "Now I adjure thee, Lucifuge Rofocale whom I command, as the agent of the Lord and Emperor of Lords, send me thy messenger Marchosias, forcing tiam to forsake his hiding-place, wheresoever it may be; land warning ithee -- " The rod went back into the fire. Instantly, the palazzo rocked as though earth had moved under it. "Stand fasti" Ware said hoarsely. Something Else said: Hush, I am here. What dost Thou Seek of me? Why dost Father rest, and hold thy rod. Never had Baines heard a voice like that before. It seemed to speak in syllables of burning ashes. "Hadst thou appeared when first I invoked thee, I had by no means smitten thee, nor called thy father," Ware said. "Remember, if the request I make of thee be refused, I all thrust again my rod into the fire." Think and seeI The palazzo shuddered again. Then, from the middle of the triangle to the north-west, a slow cloud of yellow fumes went up toward the ceiling, making them all cough, even Ware. As it spread and thinned, Baines could see a shape forming under it; but he found it impossible to believe. It was -- it was something like a she wolf, gray and immense, with green and glistering eyes. A wave of coldness was coming from it. The cloud continued to dissipate. The fihewolf glared at them, slowly spreading her griffin's wings. Her serpents tall lashed gently, scalily. In the northmi pentacle, the great cat sat up and stared back. The demon-wolf showed her teeth and emitted a disgusting belch of fire. The cat settled its front feet indifferently. "Stand, by the Seal," Ware said. "Stand and transform, else I shall plunge thee back whence thou earnest. I command diee." T he she-wolf vanished, leaving behind in the triangle a modestlooking young man wearing a decorous nedotie, a dildo almost as long, and nothing else. "Sorry, boss," ho said in a sugary voice. "I hM to try, you know. What's up?" "Don't try .to wheedle me, vision of stupidity," Ware said harshly, 'Transform, I demand of thee, thou'rt wasting they father's time, and mine! TransformI" The young man stuck out his tongue, which was copper-green. A moment later, the triangle was occupied by a black-bearded man apparently twice his age, wearing a green robe trimmed in ermine and a Ottering crown it hurt Baines's eyes to look at. An odor of sandalwood began slowly to diffuse throu the room. "That's better," Ware said. "Now I charge thee, by those Names I have named and on pain of those torments thou hast known, regard the likeness and demesne of that mortal whose eidolon I hold in my mind; and that when I release thee, thou shalt straightaway go unto him, not making thyself known unto him, but revealing os it were to come from bis own intellectual soul a vision and understanding of that great and ultimate Nothingness which lurks behind those signs he IP calls matter and energy as thou wMt see iit in his privaite forebodings; land that thou remiainest wiith him and deepen his despair without remittal, until such time as he shall despise his soul for its endeavors, and destroy the life of his body." "I cannot give thee," the crowned figure said, in a voice deep but somehow lacking all resonance, "what thou requirest." "Refusal will not avail thee," Ware said, "for either shalt thou go incontinently and perform what I command, or I shall m no wise dismiss thee, but shall keep thee here unto my life's end and torment thee daily, as thy father permitteth." "y life itself, though it last seven hundred years, is but a day to me," said the crowned figure. Sparks issued from its nostrils as it spoke. "And thy torments but a farthing of those I have endured since ere the cosmic egg was hatched and Eve invented." For answer, Ware again stabbed the rod into the fire, which, Baines noted numbly, failed even to scorch it. But the crowned figure threw back its bearded head and howled desolately. Ware withdrew the rod, but only by a hand's breadth. "I shall do as thou oommandest," the creature said sullenly. Hatred oozed from it like lava. "Be it not performed exactly, I shall call thee up again," Ware said. "But be it executed, for thy pay thou shalt carry off the immortal part of the subject thou shalt tempt, which is as yet spotless in the sight of Heaven, and a great prize." "Biit not yet enough," said the demon. "For thou must give me also somewhat of thin e hoard, as it is written in the pact" "Thou art slow to remember the pact," Ware said. "But I would deal fairly with thee, knowing marquis. Here." H e reached into his robe and drew out something minute and colorless which flashed in the candlelight. At first, Baines took it to be a diamond, but as Ware held it out, he recognized it as an opalescent crystal tear-vase, the snaallest he had ever seen, stopper, contents and all. This Ware tossed, underhand, out of the circle to the fuming figure, which to Baines's new astonishment -- for he had forgotten that what he was really looking at had first exhibited as a beast -- caught it skillfully in its mouth and swallowed it. "Thou dost only tantalize MarchosiAS," the presence said "When I have thee in Hell, miagician, then shall I drink thee dry, though thy tears flow never so copiously." "Thy threats are empty; I am not markedfor thee, shouldst thou see me in Hell forthever," Ware said. "Enough, ungrateful monster; cease they witless plaudering and discharge thine errand; I dismiss thee." The crowned figure snarled and then, suddenly, reverted to the form in which it had first showed itself. It vomited a great gout of fire, but the surge failed to pass the wall of the triangle; instead, it collected in a ball around the demon itself. Nevertheless, Baines could feel the heat against his face. IF He raised his wand methodically. The floor inside the small cirde vanished. The apparition clashed its brazen wings and dropped like a stone. With a rending thunderclap, the floor healed seamlessly. Then there was silence. As the ringing in Baines's ears died away, he became aware of a distant thrumming sound, as though someone had left a car idling in the street in front of the palazzo. Then he realized what it was: the great cat was purring. It had watched the entire proceedings with nothing more than grave interest. So, apparently, had Hess. Ginsberg seemed to be jittering, but he was standing his ground. Although he had never seen Jack rattled before, Baines could hardly blame him; he hiniself felt sick and giddy, as though just the effort of looking at Marchosias had been equivalent to having scrambled for days up some Himalayan glacier. "It is over," Ware said in a gray whisper. He looked very old. Taking up his sword, he cut the diagram circle with it. "Now we must wait. I will be in seclusion for two weeks; then we will consult again. The circle is open; you may leave." F ather Domenico heard the thunderclap, distant and muffled, and knew that the sending had been made -- and that he was forbidden, now as before, even to pray for the soul of the victim (or the patient, in Ware's antiseptic Aristotelian terminology). Sitting up and swinging his feet over the edge of the bed, breathing with diMcidity in the musky, detumescent air, he walked unsteadily to his satchel and opened it. Why -- that was the question -- did God so tie his hands, why did He allow such a compromise as the Covenant at all? It suggested, at least, some limitation in His power unallowable by the firm dogma of Omnipotence, which it was a sin even to question; or at worst, some ambiguity in His relationship with Hell, one quite outside the revealed answers to the Problem of Evil. That last was a concept too terrible to bear thinking about. Probably it was attributable purely to the atmosphere here; in any event, Fr. Domenico knew that he was in no spiritual or emotional condition to examine it now. He could, however, examine with possible profit a minor but related question: Was the evil just done the evil Fr. Domenico had been sent to oversee? There was every immediate reason to suppose that it was -- and if it were, then Fr. Domenico could go home tomorrow, ravaged but convalescent. On the other hand, it was possible -- dreadful, but in a way also hopeful -- that Fr. Domenico had been commanded to HeUnmouith to await the emission of something worse. That would resolve the puzzling anomaly that Ware's latest undertaking, abomniable though they all were, was for Ware not unusual. Much more important, it would explain, at least in part, why the Covenant existed at all: in Tolstoi's words, "God sees the truth, but waits." And this question, at least, Fr. Domenico need not simiply ponder, buit could actively submit to tihe Divine guidance, even here, even now, provided that he call upon no Presences. That restriction was not prohibitive; what was he a magician for, if not to be as subtle in his works as in his praise? Ink-hom, quill, straight-edge, three diEferent disl of different sizes cut from virgin cardboard -- not an easy thing to come by -- and the wrapped burin came out of the satchel and were arranged on top of his dres ser, which would serve well enough for a desk. On the cardboard disks he carefully inscribed three different scales: The A camerae of sixteen divine attributes, from bonitas to patientia; the T camerae of thirty attributes of things, from temporis to negatio; and the E camerae of the nine questions, from whether to how great. He centerpunched all three disiks with the burin, pinned them together with a cufflink, and finally asperged the assembled Lull Engine with holy water from the satchel. Over it he said: "I conjure thee, O form of this instrument, by the authority of God the Father Almighty, by the virtue of Heaven and the stars, by that of the elements, by that of stones and herbs, and in like manner by the virtue of snowstorms, thunder and winds, and belike also by the virtue of the Ars magna in whose figure thou art drawn, that thou receive all power unto the performance of those things in the perfection of which we are concerned, the whole without trickery, falsehood or deception, by the command of God, Creator of the Angels and Emperor of the Ages. Damahii, Lumech, Gadal, Pancia, Veloas, Meorod, Lamidoch, Baldach, Anerethon, Mitraton, most holy angels, be ye wardens of this instrument. Domine, Deus mens, in te speravi... Confitebor tibi, Domine, in tow corde meo... Quemadmodum desiderat cervus ad fontes aquarum...  Amen." This said, Fr. Domenico took up the engine and turned the circles against each other. Lull's great art was not easy to use; most of the possible combinations of any group of wheels were trivial, and it took reason to see which were important, and faith to see which were inspired. Nevertheless, it had one advantage over all other forms of scrying: it was not, in any strict sense, a form of magic. He turned the wheels at random the required number of times, and then, taking the outermost by its edge, shook It to the four quarters of the sky. He was almost afraid to look at the result. But on that very first essay, the engine had generated: It was the answer he had both feared and hoped for. And it was, he realized with a subdued shock, the only answer he could have expected on Christmas Eve. He put the engine and the tools back in his satchel and crept away into the bed. In his state of over-exhaustion and alarm, he did not expert to sleep... but within two turns of the glass he was no longer IP in the phenomenal world, but was dreaminig instead that, like Geirbert the magldan-Pope, he was ifleeing the Holy Office down the wind astride a devil. X W are's period of recovery did not last quite as long as he had prophesied. He was visibly up and about by Twelfth Night. By that time, Baines -- though only Jack Ginsberg could see and read the signs -- was chafing at the inaction. Jack had to remind him that in any event at least two months were supposed to pass before the suicide of Dr. Stockhausen could even be expected and suggested that they all go back to Rome and to work in the interim. Baines shrugged the suggestion off. Whatever else was on his mind, it did not seem to involve Consolidated Warfare Service's interests more than marginally... or at least, the thought of business could not distract him beyond the making of a small number of daily telephone calls. The priest or monk or whatever he was, Fr. Domenico, was still in attendance too. Evidently he had not been taken in by the show. Well, that was Ware's problem, presumably. All the same. Jack stayed out of sight of the cleric as much as possible; having him around. Jack recalled in a rare burst of association with his Bronx childhood, was a little like being visited by a lunatically Orthodox relative during a crucial marriage brokerage. Not so lunatic at that, though; for if magic really worked -- as Jack had had to seethat iit did -- then the whole tissue of metaphysical assumptions Fr. Domenico stood for, from Moses through the Kabbalah to the New Testament, had to follow, as a matter of logic. After this occurred to Jack, he not only hated to see Fr. Domenico, but had nightmares in which he felt that Fr. Domenico was looking back at him. Ware himself, however, did not emerge officially, to be talked to, until his predicted fourteenth day. Then, to Jack's several-sided disquietude, the first person he called into his office was Jack Ginsberg. Jack wanted to talk to Ware only slightly more than he wanted to talk to the bare-footed, silently courteous Fr. Domenico; and the effect upon Baines of Ware's singling Jack out for the first post-conjuration interview, though under ordinary circumstances it could have been discounted as minor, could not even be conjectured in Baines's present odd state of mind. After a troubled hour, Jack took the problem to Baines, not even sure any more of his own delicacy in juggling such an egg. "Go 'ead," was all Baines said. He continued to give Jack the impression of a man whose mind was not to be turned more than momentarily from some all-important thought. That was alarming, too, but there seemed to be nothing to be done about it. Setting his face into its business mold of pleasant attentiveness, over slightly clenched teeth. Jack marched up to Ware's office. The sunlight there was just as htiiighit and lumocent as ever poudng direotly in fron the sea-siky on top o the oM. Jack felt sligy more in contact with what he (had used ito think of as real life. In some hope of taking the initiative away from Ware and keeping it, he asked the magician even before sitting down: "Is there some news already?" "None at all," Ware said. "Sit down, please. Dr. Stockhausen is a tough patient, as I warned you all at the beginning. It's possible that he won't fall at all, in which case a far more strenuous endeavor will be required. But in the meantime I'm assuming that he will, and that I therefore ought to start preparing for Dr. Baines's next commission. That's why I wanted to see you first." "I haven't any idea what Dr. Baines's next commission is," Jack said, "and if I did I wouldn't tell you before he did." "You have a remorselessly literal mind, Mr. Ginsberg. I'm not trying to pump you. I already know, and it's enough for the time being, that Mr. Baines's next commission will be something major; perhaps even a unique experiment in the history of the Art. Father Domenico's continued presence here suggests the same sort of thing. Very well, if I'm to tackle such a project. I'll need assistants -- and I have no remaining apprentices; they become ambitious very early and either make stupid technical mistakes or have to be smissed for disobedience. Laymen, even sympathetic laymen, are equally mischancy, simply because of their eagerness and ignorance; but if they're highly intelligent, it's sometimes safe to use them. Sometimes. Given those disclaimers, that explains why I allowed you and Dr. Hess to watch the Christmas Eve affair, not just Dr. Hess whom Dr. Baines had asked for; and why I want to talk to you now." # T see," Jack said. "I suppose I JL should be flattered." Ware sat back in his chair and raised his hands as if exasperated. "Not at all. I see that I'd better be blunt. I was quite satisfied with Dr. Hess's potentialities and so don't need to talk to him any more, except to instruct him. But I am none too happy with yours. You strike me as a weak reed." "I'm no magician," Jack said, holding onto his temper. "If there's some hostility between us, it's only fair to recognize that I'm not its sole cause. You went out of your way to insult me at our very first interview, only because I was normally suspicious of your pretensions, as I was supposed to be, on behalf of my job. I'm not easily offended. Dr. Ware, but I'm more cooperative if people are reasonably polite to me," Siercor Ware said. The word meant nothing to Jack. "You keep thi nkin g I'm talking about public relations, and getting along with people, and all that goose-grease. Far from it. A little hatred never hurts the Art, and studied insult is valuable in dealing with demons -- there are only a few who can be flattered to any profit, and the man IF who can be flattered isn't a man at all, he's a dog. Do try to understand me, Mr. Ginsberg, hat I'm talking about is neither your footling hostility nor your unexpectedly slow brains, but your rabbit's courage. There was a moment during the last ceremony when I could see that you were going to step out of your ipost. You didn't know it, but I had to paralyze you, and I saved your life. If you had moved you would have endangered all of us, and had that happened I would have thrown you to Marchosias like an old bone. It wouldn't have saved the purpose of the ceremony, but it would have kept the demon from gobbling up everybody else but Ahktoi." "Ach -- ?" "My familiar. The cat." "Oh. Why not the cat?" "He's on loan. He belongs to another demon -- my patron. Do stop changing the subject, Mr. Ginsberg. If I'm going to trust you as a Tanist in a great work, I'm going to have to be reasonably sure that you'll stand fast when I tell you to stand fast, no matter what you see or hear, and that when I ask you to take some small part in the ritual, you'll do it accurately and punctually. Can you assure me of this?" "Well," Jack said earnestly, "I'll do my best." "But what for? Why do you want to sell me? I don't know what you mean by your 'best until I know what's in it for you, besides just keeping you your job -- or makin g a good impression on me because it's a reflex with you to make a good impression on pecle. Explain this to me, please! I know that there's something in this situation that hits you where you live; I could see that from the outset, but my first guess as to what it was evidently was wrong, or anyhow not central. Well, what is centri to you? The situation has now ripened to the point when you're going to have to tdl me what it is. Otherwise I shall shut you out, and that will be that." Wobbling between unconventional hope and standard caution. Jack pushed himseilf out of the Florraitine chair and toe-heel-toed to the window, adjusting his tie automatically. From this hei ght  the cliffcling ing apartments of Positano fell away to the narrow beach like so many Roman tenements crowded with deposed kings -- and with beach-boys hoping to pick up an American heiress for the season. Except for the curling waves and a few distant birds, the scene was motionless, yet somehow to Jack it seemed to be slowly, inexorably sliding into the sea. Sure, I like women," he said in a low voice. "And I've got special preferences I don't find it easy to satisfy, even with all the money I make. For one thing, in my job I'm constantly working with classified material -- secrets -- either some government's or the company's. That means I don't dare put myself into a position where I could be blackmed." "Which is why you refused my offer when we first talked," Ware said. "That was discreet, but unnecessary. As you've probably realized by now, neither spying nor extortion has any attraction for me -- the potential income from either or both would be a pittance to me." "Yes, but I won't always have you around," Jack said, turning back toward the desk. "And I'd be stupid to form new tastes that only you could keep supplied." "'Pander to' is the expression; let's be precise. Nevertheless, you have some remedy in mind. Otherwise you wouldn't be being even this frank." "Yes... I do. It occurred to me when # u agreed to allow Hess to tour your laboratory." He was halted by lanolheir stab of jealousy, no less acute for being half reminiscent. Drawing a deep breath, he went on: "I want to learn the Art." "Oho. That is a reversal." CiTou said it was possible," I Jack said in a rusih, emboldened by a desperate sense of having now nothing to lose, "I know you said you don't take apprentices, but I wouldn't be trg to stab you in the back or take over your clients, I'd only be using the Art for my specialized purposes. I couldn't pay you any fortune, but I do have money. I could do the reading in my spare time and come back after a year or so for the actual instruction. I think Baines would give me a stabbatical for that. He wants somebody on his staff to know the Art, at least the theory, only he thinks it's going to be Hess. But Hess will be too busy with his own sciences to do a thorou job of it." "You really hate Dr. Hess, don't you?" "We don't impinge," Jack said stiffly. "Anyhow what I say is true; I could be a lot better expert from Baines's" point of view than Hess ever could." "Do you have a sense of humor, Mr. Ginsberg?" "Certainly. Everybody does." "Untrue," Ware said. "Everybody claims to have, that's all. I ask only because the first thing to be sacrificed to the Art is the gift of laughter, and some people would miss it more than others. Yours seems to be residual at best; in you it would probably be a minor operation, like an appendectomy." "You don't seem to have lost yours." "You confuse humor with wit, like most people. The two are as different as creativity and  scholarship. However, as I say, in your case it's not a great consideration, obviously. But there may be greater ones: for example, what tradition I would be training you in. For instance, I could make a Kabbalistic magician of you, which would give you a substantial grounding in white magic; and for the black, I could teach you most of what's in the Clavicle and the Legemeton, cutting out the specifically Christian accretions. Would that content you, do you think?" "Maybe, if it met my primary requirements," Jack said. "But if I had to go on from there, I wouldn't care. These days I'm a Jew only by birth, not by culture -- and up imtil Christmas Eve I was an atheist Now I don't know what I am; all I know is I've got to believe what I see." "Not in this Art," Ware said. "But IF we'll think of you as a tabula rasa for the time being. Well, Mr. Ginsberg, I'll consider it. But beifore I decide, I think you out to explore further your insight about special tastes becoming satisfiable dnly through magic, whether mine or yours. You like to think how delightful it would be to enjoy them fredy and without fear of consequences, but it often happens -- you'll remember Oscar Wilde's epigram on the subject -- ithat fulfilled desire isn't a delight, but a cross." "I'll take the chance." "Don't be so hasty. You have no real idea of the risks. Suppose you should find, for example, that no human woman could please you any more, and you'd become dependent on succubi? I don't know how much you know of the theory of such a relationship. In general, the revolt in Heaven involved angels from every order in the hierarchy; and of the Fallen, only those who fell from the lowest rani are assigned to this sort of duty. By comparison, Marchosias is a paragon of nobility. These creatures have even lost their names, and there's nothing in the least grand about their malignancy -- they are pure essences of narrow meanness and petty spite, the kind of spirit a Sicilian xmlkmaid calls on to make her rival's toenails split or give an unfaithful lover a pimple on the end of his nose." "That doesn't make them sound different from ordinary women," Jack said, shrugging. "So long as they deliver, what does it matter? Presumably, as a magician I'd have some control over their behavior." "Yes, Nevertheless, why be persuaded out of desire and ignorance, when an experiment is available to you? In fact, Mr. Ginsberg, I would not trust any resolution you made from the state of simple fantasy you're in now. If you won't try the experiment, I must refuse your petition." "Now wait a minute," Jack said. "Why are you so urgent about this, anyhow? What kind of advantage do you get out of it?" "I've already told you that," Ware said patiently. "I will probably neeci you as a Tanist in Dr. Baines's major enterprise. I want to be able tc trust you to stand fast, and I won't be able to do that without being sure of your degree and kind of commitment." Everything that Ware said seemed to have behind it the sound of doors softly closing in Jack's face. And on the other hand, the possibilities -- the opportunities -- "What," he said. "Must I do?" XI T he palazzo was asleep. In the distance, that same oblivious clock struck eleven; the proper hour of this day. Ware had said, for experiments in venery. Jack waited nervously for it to stop, or for something to betgin. His preparations were all made, but he was uncertain whether any of them had been necessary. After all, if the... girl... who was to come to him was to be totally amenable to his wishes, why should he have to impress her? Nevertlieless, he had gone ithrough all the special ntuails, bathing for an hour, shaving twice, trimming his finger and toenails and boffing em, brushing his hair back for thirty strokes and combing it with the West German tonic which was said to have allatoin in it, dressing in bis best silk pajamas, smoking jacket (though he neither smoked nor drank), ascot and Venetian leather snippers, adding a dash of cologne, and scattering a light film of talcum powder inside the bed. Maybe, he thought, part of the pleasure would be in taking all the trouble and having everything work. The dock stepped striking. Almost at once, fiiere was a slow triple knodr at the door, so slow that e soft blow seemed like an independent act. Jack's heart bounded like a boy's. Putting te sash of his jacket tighiter, he said as instructed: "Come in... Come in .   Come in." He opened the door. As Ware had told him to expect, there was no one m the dark corridor outside; but whein he dosed in the door and turned around, there she was. "Good evening," she said in a light vdee with the barest trace of an accent -- or was it a lisp? "I am here, as you invited me. Do you like me?" It was not the same girl who had brought the letter to Ware, so many weeks ago, though she somehow reminded him of someone he had once known, he could not think who. This one was positively beautiful. She was small -- half a head shorter than Jack, slender and apparently only about eighteen -- and very fair, with blue eyes and a fresh, innocent expression which was doubly piquant because the lines of her features were patridan, her skin so delicate that it was almost like fine parchment. She was fully clothed, in spike heels, patterned but otherwise sheer stodgs, and a short-sleeved, expensively tailored black dress of some material like rayon which clung to her breasts, waist and upper hips as though electrified, and then burst into a Ml skirt like an inverted tulip which broke just above her knees. Wire-thin silv bracelets slid and tinMed almost inaudibly on her left wrist as die ruffled her chrysanthemum-petal coiffure, and sniall silver earrings echoed them; between her breasts was a dicular onyx brooch inlaid in silver with the word Cazotte, set off by a ruby about the size of a fly's eye, the only touch of color in entire costume; even her make-up was the Itailian "white look," long out of style but so exaggerating her paleness as to look almost theatrical on her -- almost, but not quite. "Yes," he said, remembering to breathe. "Ah, you make up your mind so soon. Perhaps you are wrong." She piroued away from him toward e bed, making the black tulip flare and lace foam under its corolla around her legs with a dry rustling. She stopped the spin f adng him, so suddenly that the skirts snapped above her knees like banners in a stiff gust. She seemed wholly human. ib: "Impossible," Jack said, mustering all his gallantry. "I think you're exquisite. Uh, what shall I call you?" "Oh, I do not come when called. You will have to exert yourself more than that. But my name could be Rita, if you need one." She lifted the front of the skirts up over the welts of her stockings, which cut her white thighs only a few inches beneath the vase of her pelvis, and sat down daintily on the side of the bed. "You are very distant," she said, pouting. "Perhaps you suspect I am only pretty on the outside. That would be unfair." "Oh no. I'm sure -- " "But how can you be sure yet?" She drew up her heels. "You must come and see." T he clock was striking four when she arose, somehow looking las though she were still on high heels, and began to dip up her clothes from the floor. Jack watched this little ballet in a dizziness half exhaustion and half triumph. He had hardly enough strength left to wiggle a toe, but he had already surprised himself so often that he still had hopes. Nothing had ever been like this before, nothing. "Must you go?" he said sluggishly. "Oh, yes, I have other business yet." "Other business? But -- didn't you have a good time?" "A -- good time?" The girl turned tod him, stopping in the act of fastening a garter strap. "I am thy servant and thy lamia, Eve-fruit, but thou must not mock me." "I don't understand," Jack said. struggling to lift his head from the bunched, sweaty pillow. "Then keep silent." She resumed assembling herself. "But -- you seemed -- " She turned to him again. "I gave thee pleasure. Congratulate thyself; that is enough. Thou knowest well what I am. I take no pleasure in anything; it is not permitted. Be grat ful, and I shall come to thee again; but mock me, and I shall send thee instead a hag with an ass's tail." "I meant no offense," he said, half sullenly. "See thou dost not. Thou hadst pleasure with me, that sufficeth; thou flesh. Thy potency, that I go to try even now; it comes on to night i' the other side of the world, and I must plant thy seed before it dies in my fires -- if ever it lived at aH." a hoarse whisper. "Have no fear, I shall be back tomorrow. But in the next span of the dark I must change suit" The dress fell down over the impossibly pliant body. "I become an incubus now, and a woman waits for that, diverted from her husband by the two-fold way. Reach I her in time, thou shalt father a child on a woman thou shalt never even see. Is that not a wonder? And a fearful child it shall be, I promise thee!" She smiled at him. Behind her lids now, he saw with nausea and shame, there were no longer any eyes -- only blankly flickering lights, Hke rising sparks in a flue. She was now as fully dressed as she had been at the benndnig, courtseying gravely. "Wait for me .  . unless, of course, thou dost not want me back tomorrow night...?" He tried not to answer, but the woids came out like clots of poisonous gas. "Yes... Oh, God..." Cupping both hands over her hidden groin in a gesture of obscene conservatism, she popped into nothingness like a bursting balloon, and the whole wei of the dawn fell upon Jack like the moimtains of St. John the Divine. xn D r. Stockhausen died on St. Valentine's day, after three days' fruitless attemi by surgeons from all over the world, even the fects of a drau of a hundred minims of tincture of iodine. The surgery and hontal care were all free; but he di intestate, and it appeared that his small estate -- a few royalties from his books and the remains of a ten-year-old Nobel Prize -- would be tied up indefinitely. Especially in view of the note he lefi behind, out of which no tribunal, whether scientific or judicial, could hope to separate the mathematics from the ravings for generations to come. Funds were gathered for his grandchildren and divorced daughter to tide them over; but the last book that he had been writing turned out to be so much like the note that his publishers' referees could think of no colleague to whom it could reasonably be offered for posthumous collaboration. It was said that his brain would be donated to the museum of the Deutsches Akademie in MunLcfa -- again only if his affairs could ever be probated. Within three days after the funeral, however. Ware was able to report, both brain and manuscript had vanished. "Marchosias may have taken one or both of them," Ware said. "I didn't tell him to, since I didn't want to cause any more suffering to Albert's relatives than was inevitable under the terms of the conssion. On (the other hand, I didn't tell him not to, either. But the commission itself has been executed." "Very good," Baines said. He was, in fact, elated Of the other three people in the office with Ware -- for Wiare had said there was no way to prevent Fr. Domenico from attending -- none looked as pleased as Baines felt, but after all he was the only man who coimted here, the only one to whose emotions Ware need pay any more than marginal attention. "And much faster than you had anticipated, too. I'm very well satisfied. And also I'm now quite ready to discuss my major commission with you. Dr. Ware, if the planets and so on don't make this a poor time to talk about it." "The planetary influences exert almost no effect upon simple discussion," Ware said, "only on specific preparations -- and of course on the experiment itself. And I'm quite rested and ready to listen. In fact, I'm in an acute state of curiosity. Please charge right in and teil me about it." "I would like to let all the major IP demons out of Hell for one turn them loose in the world with no orders and no restrictions -- except of course that they go back by dawn or some other sensible time -- and see just what it is they would do if they were left on their own hooks like that." #Tnsanity!" Fr. Domenico cried X out, crossing himself. "Now surely the man is possessed alreadyl" "For once, I'm inclined to agree with you. Father," Ware said, 'ough with some reservations about the possession question. For all we can know now, it's entirely in character. Tell me this, Dr. Baines: what do you hope to accomplish through an experiment on so colossal a scale?" "Experiment!" Fr. Domenico said, his face as white as the dead. "If you can do no more than echo. Father, I think we'd all prefer that you kept silent -- at least until we find out what it is we're talking about." "I will say what I need to say, when I think it is needful," Fr. Domenico said angrily. "This thing that you're minimizing by calling it an 'experiment' might well end in the dawn of Armageddon!" "Then you should welcome it, not fear it, since you're convinced your side must win," Ware said. "But actually there's no such risk. The results may well be rather apocalyptic, but Armageddon requires the prior appearance of the Antichrist, and I assure you I am not he... nor do I see anybody else in the world who might qualify. Now, again, Dr. Baines, what do you hope to acoomlish through this?" "Notibii through It," Baines, now totally caught up in the vision, said dreamily. "Only the thing its -- for its esthetic interest alone. A work of art, if you like. A giganitic action painting, with the world for a canvas -- " " -- and human blood for pigments," Fr. Domenico ground out. Ware held up his hand, palm toward the monk. "I had thought," he said to Baines, "that this was the art you practiced already, and in effect sold the resulting canvasses, too." "The sales kept me able to continue practicing it," Baines said, but he was beginning to find the metaphor awkward, his though it had originally been. "Look at it this way for a moment. Dr. Ware. Very roughly, there are only two gener kinds of men who go into the munitions business: those without consciences, who see the business as an avenue to a great fortune, eventually to be used for something else, like Jack here -- and of course there's a sub-class of those, people who do have consciences but can't resist the money anyhow, or the knowledge, rather like Dr. Hess." Both men stirred, but apparently both decided not to dispute their portraits. "The second kind is made up of people like me: people who actually take pleasure in the controlled production of chaos and destruction. Not sadists primarily, except in the sense that every dedicated artist is countenaince a little or a lot of suffering -- not only bis own, bot other people's -- for the sake of the endprodnct." familiar type, to be sure,' Ware said with a lop-sided grin. I think it was the saintly Robert Frost, who said that a painting by Whistler wias worth any number of old ladies." "Engineers are like this too," Baines said, warming rapidly to ii demonstration; he had b thinking aiboult almost nothing else since the conjuration he had attended. 'There's a breed I know mudi better than I do artists, and I can tell you that most of them wouldn't build a thing if it weren't for the kidc they get out of the preiliminiaiy demolitions involved. A common thief with a gun in his hand isn't half as dangerous as an engineer with a stick of dynamite. "BiKt in my case, just as in the case of the engineer, the key word is 'controlled' -- and in the munitions business, it's rapidly becoming an obsolete word, thanks to nuclear weapons." He went on quickly to sketdi his dissatisfactions, very much as they had first come to a head in Rome while Gov. Rogan had been being sent for. "So now you can see what appeals to me about the commission I propose. It won't be a series of mass obliterations under nobody's control, but a whole set of individuals actions, each in itself on a comparatively small scale -- and each one, I'm sure, interesting in itself because of all the different varieties of ingenuity and surprise to be involved. And it won't be total because it will also be self-liaiiting to some small period of time, presumably twelve horns or less." Fr. Domenico leaned forward earnestly. "Surely," he said to Ware, "even you can see that no human being, no matter how sinful and self-fulgent, could have elalboraited anything so monstrous without the dii intervention of Helll" #n the contrary," Wore said, V-"Dr. Baines is quite right, most dedicated secularists think exactly as he does -- only on a somewhat smaller scale. For your further comfort. Father, I am somewhat privy to the affairs of HeU, and I investigate all my major clients thoroughly. I can tell you that Dr. Baines h not possessed. But all the same there ere still a few mysteries here. Dr. Baines, I still think you may be resorting to too big a brush for the intended canvas end might get the effects you want entirely without my help. For example, why won't the forthcoming Sino-Russian War be enou for you?" "So that's really going to happen?" "It's written down to happen; it still might not, but I wouldn't bet against it. Very likely it won't be a major nuclear war; three fusion bombs, one Chinese, two Soviet, plus about twenty fission explosions, and then about a year of conventional land war. No other powers are at ail likely to become involved. You know this. Dr. Baines, and I should think it would please you; after all, it's almost exactly the way your firm has been trying to pre-set it." IF "You're full of coinsolaitions today," Fr. Ekmenico muttered. "Well, in fact, I am damn pleased to (hear it," Baines said. asnt often itihat you plan sometihin that big and have it come off almost as planned. But no. Dr. Ware, it won't be enough for me, because it's still too general and difficult to follow -- or will be; I'm having a little trouble with my tenses. For one thing, it won't be sufficiently attributable to me. Many people have been working to bring that war about. This experiment will be on my initiaitive alone." "Not an insuperable objection," Ware said. "A good many Renaissance artists didn't object to collaborators -- even journeymen." "Well, the spirit of the times has changed, if you want an abstract answer. The real answer is that I do object. Furthermore, Dr. Ware, I want to choose my own medium. War doesn't satisfy me any more. It's too sloppy, too subject to accident. It excuses too much." "?" Ware said with an eyebrow. "I mean that in time of war, especially in Asia, people expect the worst and try to ride with the punches, no matter how terrible they are. In peacetime, on the other hand, even a small misfortune comes as a total surprise. People complain, 'Why did is have to happen to me? -- as though they'd never heard of Job." "Re-writing Job is the humanist's favorite pastime," Ware agreed. "And his favorite poMcal platform, (too. So in fact, Dr. Baines, you do want to afflict people, just where theyVe most sensitive to beong alioted and just when they lea expect fi right or wrong. Do I understand you correctly?" Baines had the shddnig feeling that he had explained too much, but there was no help for that now; and in any event. Ware was hardly himself a saint. "You do," he said diortly. "Thank you. That clears the air enormously. One more question: How do you propose to pay for all this?" Fr. Domenico surged to his feet with a strangled gasp of horror, like the death-throes of an asthmatic. "You -- you mean to do this!" "Hush. I haven't said so. Dr. Baines, the question?" "I know I couldn't pay for it in cash," Baines said. "But I've got other assets. This experiment -- if k works -- is going to satisfy something for me thalt Consohdaited Warfare Service hasn't siatisified in years and probably never will again to you. Not all of it, but -- well -- just short of being a controlling interest. You ought to be able to do a lot with that." "It's hardly enough, considering the risks involved," Ware said slowly. "On the other hand, I've no particular desire to bankrupt you -- " "Doctor Wiare," Fr. Domendca said in an iron voice. "Am I to conclude that you are going to undertake this fearful insanity?" "I haven't said so," Ware replied need your hdp -- " "Nev. Neverr " -- and everybody dse's. It isn't really ithe money thjalt nttracts me, primarily. But (witbout itbe money I sihould never be able to undertake an expedmenit like this in the first place, and I'm certain the opportunity will never come up again. If the whole thing doesn't blow up in my face, there'd be an enormous amount to learn from a trial like this." #CT think that's right," Hess' voice X said. Baines looked toward him in surprise, but Hess seemed quite serious. 'Td be greatly interested in it myself." "You'll learn nothing," Fr. Domenico said, "but  the shortest of all short-cuts to Hell, probably in the bodyl" "A negative Assumption?" Ware said, raising both eydbrom this time. "But now you're tempting my pride, Father. There've been only two previous ones in Western history: Johannes Faustus and Don Juan Tenorio. And neither one was properly safeguarded or otherwise prepar. Well, now certainly I must underltake so great a work -- provided that Dr. Baines is satisfied that he'll get what he'll be paying for." "Of course I'm satisfied," Baines said, quivering with joy. "Not so fast. You've asked me to let all the major demons out of Hell. I can't even begin to do that; I can call up only those with whom I have pacts and their subordinates. No matter what you have read in Romantic novels and plays, the three superior spirits cannot be invoked at all. and never sign pacts: those being Sathanas, Beelzebuth and Satanachia. Under eadi of these are two ministers, with one of the six of which it is possible to make pacts -- one per magician, that is. I control Lucifuge Rofocale, and he me. Under him in turn, I have pacts widi some edgihty-nine other spirits, not all of wMch would be of any use to us here -- Vassago, for instance, who has a mild nature and no powers except in oiystallomaiicy, of Phoenix, a poet and teacher. With the utmost in careful preparations, we might involve as many as fifty of the rest, certainly no more. FranMy, I think that will prove to be more than enou" "I'll cheerfully take your word for it," Baines said promptly. "You're the expert. Will you take it on?" "Yes." Fr. Domenico, who was still standing, swung away toward the door, but Ware's hand riiot out toward him above the desk as if to grasp the monk by the nape of the neck. "Hold!" the magcian said. "Your commission is not discharged. Father Domenico, as you know very well in your heart You must observe this sending. Even more important, you have already said yourself that it is going to be difficult to keep under control. To that end I demand your unstinting advice in the preparation; your presence in the conjurations, and, should they be need, your utmost offices in helping me and my other Tanists to abort it. This you cannot refuse -- it is all in your mission by stipulation, and in the Covenant by implication. I do not force you to it. I do but remind IP you of your positive duty to your Lord." "That... is ... trae..." Fr. Domenico said in a side whisper. His ifiaoe as gray as an unltinited new blotter, he gro for the chair and sat down again. "Nobly faced. I'll have to instruct everyone here, but I'll start with you, in deference to your distress -- " "One question,' Fr. Domenico said. "Once you've instructed us all, you'll be out of toudi with us for perhaps as much as a month to come. I demand the time to visit my colleagues, and perhaps call together a convocation of all white magidians -- " 'To prevent me?" Ware said between his teeth. "You can demand no sudi thing. The Covenant forbids the slightest interference." "I'm tall too horribly aware of that No, not to interfere, but to stand by, in case of disaster. It would be too late to call for them once you knew you were losing control." "Hmm... Probably a wise precaution, and one I couldn't justly prevent. Very well; just be sure you're back when the time comes. About the day, what wuld you suggest? May Eve is an obvious choice, and we may well need that much time in preparation. "It's too good a (time for any sort of control," Fr. Domenico said grimly. "I definitely do not recommend piling a real Walpuigisnight on top of the formal one. It would be wiser to choose an unfavorable nit, the more unfavorable the better." "Excellent good sense," Ware saidi "Very well, then. Inform your friends. The experiment is hereby scheduled for Easter." With a scream, Fr. Domenico bolted from the room. Had Baines not been taught all his life long that such a thing was impossible in a man of God, Baines would have identified it without a second thought as a scream of hatred.  T heron Ware had been dreaming a joum to the Antarctic continent in the midst of its Jurassic the dream had been becoming a little muddled with personal fantasies -- mostly involving a minor enemy he had in reality had sent for, with flourishes, a good decade ago -- and he was not sorry when it vanished unfinished at dawn. He awoke sweating, thou the dream had not been espedaly stressful. The reason was not far to seek Ahktoi was sleeping, a puddle of lard and fur,' on ie pillow and bad nearly crowded Ware's head off it. Ware sat up, mopping his pate with the top she and stared at the cat with nearly neutral annoyance. Even for an Abyssinian, a big-bound breed, the familiar was grossly over-weiight; clearly an exclusive diet of human fle was not a heialthy regimen for a cat. Furthermore, Ware was not even sure it was necessary. It was prescribed only in Eliphas Levi, who often made up such details as he went along. Certainly Phoenix, whose creature Ahktoi was, had made no such stipulatioin. On tihe other hand, it Wias aOiwiays best to play safe in such matters; and besod, financially the diet was not much more than a nuisance. The worst that could be said for it was that iit spoiled the cat's lines. Ware arose, naked, and crossed the cold room to the lectern which bore up his Great Book -- not the book of pacts, which was of course sitill safely m the workroom, but his book of new knowledge. It was open to the section headed but except for the brief paragraph summarizing the reliable scientific information on the subject -- a veiry brief paragraph indeed -- the pages were still blank. Well, that, like so much else, could wait imtil Baines's project was executed. Truly colossal advances might be made in the Great Book, once Ware's retirement had left the members of Baines's party again at loose ends, and all of them, even Baines, were probably a little shaken at the magnitude of what they had contracted for. In Baines and Dr. Hess, perhaps, there still remained some faint traces of doubt about its possibility, or at least some inability to imagine what it would be like, despite the previous apparition of Marchosias. No such impediment could protect Jack Ginsberg, however -- not now, when he awakened each morning with the very taste of Hell in his mouth. Ginsberg was committed, but he was not wearing well; he would have to be watched. The waiitiQig peiiiod would be especially haird on him. WeU, that couldn't be helped; it was prescribed. The cat uncurled yawned, stretched, lurched daintily to its feet and paused at the edge of the bed, peering down the sideboard as though contemplating the inward slope of Fujiyama. At last it hit the floor with a double splat! like the impacts of two loaded sponges. There it arched its spine again, stretched out its back legs individually in an ecstasy of quivering and walked slowly toward Ware, its furry abdomen swinging from side to side. Hein? it said in a breathy feminine voice. "In a minute," Ware said, preoccupied. "You'll get fed when I do." He had forgotten for the moment that he had just begun a nine days' fast, which when completed he would enforce also upon Baines and his henchmen. "Father Eternal, O thou who are seated upon cherubim and seraphim, who beholdest the earth and the sea, unto thee do I Hf t up my hands, and beseech thine aid alone, thou who art the fulflUment of works, who givest booty imto those who toil, who exaltest the proud, who art destroyer of all life and author of death; rest art thou, protector of those who call upon thee; do thou guard and defend me in this undertaking, thou who livest and reignest forever and ever. Amen! Shut up, Ahktoi." Anyhow it had been years isince he had believed for an instant that Ahktoi was really hungry. Maybe lean meat was What the cat needed. IF instead of all that baby-fait -- though stillbirths were certainly the easiest kind of rations to get for him. R inging for Gretchen, Ware went into the bathroom, where he ran a bath, into which he dashed an ounce of exorcised water left over from the dressing of a parchment. Ahktoi, who like most Abyssinians loved running water, leapt up on the rim of the tub and tried to fish for bubbles. Pushing the cat off, Ware sat down in the warm pool and spoke the Thirteenth Psalm, Dominus iU luminatio meat of death and resurrection, his voice resounding hollowly from the tiles; adding, "Lord who hast formed man out of nothing to thine own image and likeness, and me also, imworthy sinner as I am, deign, I pray thee, to bless and sanctify this water, iat all delusion may depart from me unto thee, almity and ineffable, who didst lead forth thy people front the land of Egypt, and didst cause them to pass dryshod under the Red Sea, anoint me an thou wilt, father of sins. Amen." He slid under the water, crown to toes -- but not for long, for the ounce of exorcised water he had  added still had a trace of quicklime in it from the tanning of the lambskin, which made his eyes sting. He surfaced, blowing like a whale, and added quickly to the steamy air, insipiens in corde suo... Will you kindly get out of the way, Ahktoi... who hast formed me in thine image and in they likeness, deign to Mess and sanctify this water, so that it may become unto me ihe fruition of my soul and body corners of the phenomenal and epiand purpose. Amen." phenomenal world: Someone knocked on the door. Bedrimubal, Felut, Anabotos, His eyes squeezed closed still, Ware Serabilim, Sergen, Gemen, Dogroped his way out. He was met at mos, who art seated above the the threshold by Gretchen, who heavens, who beholdest the depths, sponged his hands and face ritually grant me, I pray thee, that those with an aspged white cloth and things which I conceive in my mind retreated before him as he advanced may lalso be executed by me through into the bedroom. Now that his thee, who appear clean before theel eyes were cleared, he could see that Amen." she was naked, but knowing what Gretchen went out, flexing her she was that could scarcely interest sycorous buttocks, and Ware began him, and besides, he had been dethe rite of vesting. Hein? Ahktoi voted to celibacy since his earliest said plaintively, but Ware did not love of magic, like anyone in Orhear. His triduum was launched, ders. Her nakedness was only andevoutly, in water and would be obother rule of the rite of lustration, served, strictly, until the end in Waving her aside, he took three steps blood; wherein would be required to toward the bed, where she bad laid the slaughter a lamb, a dog, a hen out his vestments, and said to all and a cat. How to Beat the Rising Cost of Living We've put our Subscription Department in a time warp for you. Although the price of IF has had to go up, you can still subscribe at the old rates if you act at once. Just fill out and mail the coupon, or (if you don't want to mutilate your magazine) send a letter with your name and address, and your check or money order... and if you act now your subscription will be honored at the previous rates. But please don't wait -- they won't stay in suspended animation forever! IF ! IF, #I Hudson Street I New York City # I Please  begin  renew my subscripI tion to IF for I  # Issues at # j  # Issues at # j My check or money order Is enclosed. I Name I Address I Cty State Zip j (Outsltfe of U.#., add I for eaeh # Issues) I This offer expires  October #, # IF  Novelette Someone was sharing my body -- and doing better with if than I ever did! I E ver wake up in the middle of the night with the eerie conviction that someone was there in the darkness of your room? I guess almost everybody has. But this night it was different with me. Not someone, but something was there; and it was in my bed -- real, a thing that glided up from the sheet and skimmed across my chest -- not touching the skin ough, seemingly -- up, up toward my face. I grabbed for it, but found nothing. Then, as I rolled over to snap on the light, it settled on the back of my neck; and there I did get the feel of the tg for an instant Or did #? It seemed like a half clam shell with the flat open side against me, and as I tried to explore it with my fingers it literally melted or dissolved. Better to say that it absorbed swiftly into my body at that point without my feeling anything whatever of its entrance. There was somehow the impression that, if this bad been a clam shell, a small one like a Oherrystone, the creature itsdf in the half and was alive. Thou there was no feeling of wetness, in fact no sensation at all. Only an impression. The light flicked on at my finger's touch, and I sat up jerkily, blinking to assure myself that I wasn't dreaming. A voice within told me soothingly and convincingly to go back to sleep. Which I must have done at once. T welve light-years distant in the city of Xenor on Tau Ceti II, planet of the roso#inted mists, a huge crowd was assembled in the palace square. The hush of fearful anticipation held them as their faces all raised up toward a balcony of the palace. No humanoids, these; they were magnificently built humans, differing from us mainly in the golden hue of their irises and their simple, glistening, skintight garb. Among those near the walls were twenty or more of the Small Folk, likewise human in appearance on a miniature scale, but with heads slightly oversized for thedr #-inch, nearly naked, chubby bodies. They had no wings, but levitated and flitted about almost continuously. Their mission seemed to be to ahay the obvious fears of the multitude since, even though they spoke or sang no words, their cheering thoughts were spread throughout the square without discrimination. The burden of these was: "Our princess will, recover. We know. We know. Believe us!" Beyond the wall could be seen the multicolored, pyramidal buildings of a great city: windowless structures with aircars darting busily hither and yon amongst them, often landing on a stage atop one of the tall edifices. Far beyond the city, of course, towered mighty Mount Leo with its upper halo of rose-hued mist on which the late sun gleamed redly and hotly. Inside the palace, in a large room from which the balcony opened, an agitated young man in princely garb faced the Mindmaster, who was robed like a monk. On a couch before them lay the draped form of a girl of charming proportions, her face nearly hidden in a tumbled mass of glorious golden hair. She was obviously in deep coma. "What's the verdict, Nelot?" the young man demanded. "Prince Bor, our tests show that in the hysteria of her original seizure the cortex fled her brain and has since taken up residence in a maid of Erd." "Eard, third planet of the white sun Saltan? So far?" "Just so," the Mindmaster said gravely. "What's being done? Aria must be saved; think of our subjects out there. Think even of me!" The young man sounded panicky. "We'll do everything possible -- with your cooperation. I've means for teleporting your cortex to Erd, there to reside in ,a selected male whom we can assist and direct, hopefully unknown to him, to provide protection for her -- mainly against herself." "Meaning her suiddal impulses girl's. It was Bor, head uncovered may return?" and eyes shining. The crowd out"Afraid so, which is foremost to side, save for the fluttedngs of the be guarded against. It now remains Sms Folk with their unspoken as only to find a suitable male; he must surances, remained silent -- waiidng. be about your age, mentally and "You're certain he's the right one. physically fit and of good moral Nelot?" quavered the prince, caliber. You'll be provided with the "He tested out in all respects." mental and occult powers necessary "Then why delay?" to the task." "We won't, my dear Bor, not any 'How long will it take to find further. Quiet now. Still." this man?" Once more the mists swirled, now "Not long, I hope. Be patient hiding only the recumbent ones and while I continue the search." Nelot's lower portion. The Mindmaster reached up, and a beam of R osy mists swirled, and the two light like that of a theatrical spot standing figures as well as the streaked down to illumine the rosy inert one were blotted from view mist over the spot where Bor's head for a moment. Flashes of movement lay. showed through, and then the mists A caplike shape pushed up, quivercleared away to reveal a second ing, and then rapidly dwindling in draped form on a pallet beside the size to approximately that of a golf ball. The Mindmaster, his brow corrugated, gestured; and the ball sped off into infuiite distance, shrinking as it raced until it was a then vanisihing like the light spot from a TV tube. As the mist cleared to reveal the two recumbent figures again, it was evident that they were in similar comas. Bor's fine features had congealed into a solid mask, and there was no indication whatever that he even breathed. Nelot composed the draping of both figures, then stepped to the balcony and reassured the crowd in the plaza as best he could. His talk was continuing as all faded from sight and sound. II I n the office next morning, my partner Grant Cory looked at me searchingly as he came in. Our secretary hadn't arrived yet, and I was opening the morning maiL It was early. "What's been happening to you?" Grant asked. "You look like a new guy." "Hah! I sure don't feel like it," I told him. "I had a perfectly rotten night." "Couldn't sleep?" "Worse. Crazy dreams." A slip of paper slid from the envelope I'd just sli'tted, a check. "Hey! Look at this!" I waved it before my partnM-. "It was for #. "And listen to this..." I read from the accompanying letter, which was from a client we'd worked extremely hard to please. "It ends up," I said and quoted: An extra two thousand over and above your fee is included as a bonus for the excellent report your partnership rendered. You will hear from us the first of next month with regard to , another report we want you to make.' " "How about that?" Grant was on his feet doing a sort of little tap dance. "This seems to be our lucl day." Miss Bailey came in then and took over the rest of the mail, her eyes widening behind the thick glasses when she saw the check. Later a in the thousands too, though less than half the previous one. At any rate, we were flushed with success -- it isn't every day that a youthful partnership of consulting engineers sees so much in the way of fees. "Time for vacation," Grant declared. "What say. Chuck? I've been wanting to take the family to Acapulco for a long time -- wife has a cousin there. So what say we split the bonus and go places?" "Okay," said I, "and I think I'U go to Vegas, not having a family. You may take two weeks with pay when we return. Miss Bailey." The girl grinned her thanks. "Vegas!" exclaimed Cory. "You don't gamble." I'd been asking myself already what prompted me to decide on Las Vegas, for the reason he mentioned. Though to drive the route was an appealing prospect. "Oh, it can be exciting or restful there, as you choose. I like to see a girlie show now and then; and, besides, Jack Carter's at the Flamingo, and I get a big bang out of him." A sinall accusing voice within told me these weren't the real reasons, but I couldn't think of any other at the moment. "Everyone to his own taste," Grant said. "So let's go." "I'll give you a ring every second day. Miss Bailey," I told her, "to see what's going on. Watch things, huh?" We were gone then, leaving our desks perfectly clear. I hadn't even known there was a Star Vega Hotel in Vegas, but I flew up there from LA on one of their planes instead of driving. A thing I never would have done ordinarily. So I guessed Cory had been right; I did seem to be a new guy. And the Star Vega was quite a splash, a #-story, aluminum-andglass deal that dwaiied all the others on the strip. With a regular park all around it and a lagoon witih swans. Posh! Luxury itself. The lobby was like most of the others only more so, opening into the casino on the right side and with elevators and the registration desk on the left. I filled out the card, and a snooty bellhop took my grips and led me to room #, where he held out his hand for the fiver I was sap enough to slip him. Didn't even thank me, so I guess I wasn't so biearted at that. After all, he had opened the transom. I looked out the window down the strip, where tthe neons were already starting to flare. Quite a sightl I was suddy and unaccountably seized with a desire to try my luck in the casino. Imaginel Next thing I was in line at one of the cashier's booths and buying five bucks worth of quarters. Ihen I strolled along a row of two-bit, onearm bandits and played one of the quarters in each, hitting the jackpot in one after another of them. Both my jacket pockets were filled, and quarters were splashing all over the floor, jangling and rolling every which way. I bad quite a following all of a sudden and this included a page boy (they hate being called bellhops in this place) with a canvas sack two feet deep and some sage advice that he whispered while oollectkug the next jackpot in his bag. "If I was you, mister," he muttered, "I'd lay off the slot machines a while. Else they'll think you're just too damn lucky." "Who're 'they?' " I whispered back as he gathered in another jackpot. "Just 'they.'" I played the last four machines in the row -- jackpots all -- end his sack was loaded to the point where he could barely carry it "I'll change these into tens and twenties for you," he panted. "Okay and keep twenty for yourself," knowing he'd steal more than that and caring not at all. I moved over to one of the crap games as he staggered off. Here I made side bets and won them all, whether I bet for or against the player. My pockets were fiUiimg with bills now. Some lOU's too, which I itucked into a separate poet. Then the dice were in my hand, and I was rattling them for a roll. Never shot crap in my life, but I'd been watching and listening. Made what are called "passes" -- twelve in a row. Not without a fuss though; at every diird pass as I let all or most of the money ride I got a dirty look and a fresh pair of dice. But I kept right on winning, mostly with naturals; but if I did roll a point -- and there were only two of these, a ten and a four -- I made it on the next toss. Bettors on the side were making a cleanup on me too when a small voice inside told me to draw way down, bet only ten bucks, that I was about to crap out. Which I did on the next roll. "Snake-eyes!" someone groaned. Counting my winnings, I had over sLsteen thousand dollars before I took the sheaf of bills the pageboy brought me. "Twenty-seven C's here," he whispered and was gone. I sauntered over to one of the blackjack tables and watched that game for a while; then when a player across from the dealer rost to leave the game, I started to edge into his seat. "Huh-uh," husked the dealer, "you're to hot. Try the Sands." So the word had been passed: here's a possible big winner. L ucky as I'd been -- or whatever you want to call it -- I'd developed no gambling fever whatsoever. There was only that small voice thiat egged me on, telling me I hadn't won enough yet. Enough for what? At the Sands I started differently, picking out the few slot machines that took in silver dollars when there were plenty of those to be had and paid off in kind, but now used those cashable doUar-sized tokens with the casino's name showing prominently among the imprints. I still hit the jackpots, but changed my procedure by feeding back a couple of tokens from the loot, then cashing in immediately after eadi successive haul. This proved to be a smart move on account of the lesser attention it attracted, besides being easier on my pockets. I'd added quite a bundle of tens, twenties and even C-notes to my take by the time I found and cleaned up on the last dollar machine. Then to the wheel, and here I played a cautious game, although I won every bet I placed. But they weren't spectacularly large bets; I spaced them and after each win I walked around for a while and came back later -- four or five times, I guess. By the time the croupier was wising up to me I was ready to quit anyway and had what I thought to be a lot of loot froin this source. Though I learned later that I w little more than a piker compared with some of the legendary big winners. Which was good, I suppose. My next play was at the Riviera. I'd aimed at the Sahara, but the cabbie touted me off that and onto the Riviera -- said it was going bad for the house there that night As if I hadn't done well enough already, by my standards. Of course I didn't know just how much I'd IP deposited with the managers when I made that brief stop back at the Star Vega after the Sands play but guessed it might be twenty grand or more. Never used the word "grand" in that sense before either -- so it must be some of the jargon of the strip was rubbing off on me. In the Riviera casino I made directly for the first crap game in sight and there I made a few side bets, winni ng them all. I was tired of it by now and very glad to hear that small voice say, "It's enough." So that was that; I quit and was paid off to the tune of only eighteen C's. But if that was enough, so be it. I was really weary. Ill B ack at the Star Vega, I sat down at one of those little tables that "dot the edges of the casino here and there, a table not too far from the desk and the elevators. A perky cocktail waitress, wearing much much less than the law allows, asked for my order. "A double Scotch," I said, "on the rocks, with iced coffee on the side. The girl looked at me like I must be crazy or something. Maybe I was just then, but this was what I wanted and I didn't bat an eye -- if you can bat an eye either with or without a bat. "Yes sure," she gurgled and flitted off with a display of about all the skin she had. The drink was a good one and only set me back five bucks plus a dollar tip. So what! The gal was cute, and I was in the swankiest place on the strip, besides having played -- and beat -- the casinos for most of an evening. I should feel good about it, I suppose, but somehow I didn't. In fact, I felt a little depressed by it all. A t this point I suddenly seemed to be two people. Things became confused, and it sure wasn't the Scotch. Not just one double. The casino, to me, faded into obscurity. Mists enclosed it all and then cleared, revealing the Mindmaster and the two draped forms on Tau Ceti II. Nelot suddenly looked directly at me and plac a finger on his lips to enjoin silence. Then he drew back the covering from the face of the recumbent man. So help me, it was me! Same shock of brown hair, same high cheekbones and square jaw, same straight (I'd always thought almost, but not quite aristocratic) nose. On him it was aristrocratic. This was Bor, and Nelot redraped his face gravely as the body remained motionless. Then the Mindmaster proceeded to Aria and uncovered her head, swept back the unbelievably golden hair, (not blonde, not yellow, but really golden) and revealed a calm, almost perfectly chiseled profile. Skin ivory, satiny smooth, fordhead higji chin firm and cherry lips purs in the hint of a pout. There was a slight intimation of pertness in the almost imperceptibly retrousse' nose. "Just so you'll know..." Nelot was wSuspeimg. The nods swirled again, vanisiMd, and a local voice readied me from the registration desk. An unpleasant one. I saw that an expensively dressed young girl was taking some guff from the clerk, and I burned. So help me again, hers was Aria's profile! And the sHgtht pout of the lips was atrerdble -- she was about to cry. I got there fast. "What goes on?" I demanded of the clerk. "It's none of your business," he said hauitily. I leaned over and yanked his collar awry. "I'm making it my business, you lug!" I turned to the girl, who was white and shaky. "They locked me out of my room," she quavered. "Why?" I yeUed at the clerk. "Non-payment of her bill," quoth he, trying to straighten his collar and glaring at me, "besides the lOU's." "What lOU's?" No answer. "I'm going to the manager!" I bawled, grabbing the now frightened girl and propelling her toward his door, which was "You can't go in there," the clerk squeaked. But I could and did, pushing the girl ahead of me. "Can't you ask her to sit down?" I yammered at the portly manager. He looked daggers at me, then seeing I sure meant busine: "You may sit down. Miss Jones," he said grudgingly. Sht sat, twisting her handkerchief. "What the hell is this about?" I demanded of the fat one. "She owes us sixty doUais for three days room rent, and there are the lOU's." He consulted a ledger. "# on the button. Plus our #, of course." "What?" I yelped. "What're diey for -- the lOU's?" Gambling chits. At several casinos. They brought them here for collection, and Miss Jones says she can't pay. Besides, there's no such pson; we checked the address she registered under. They -- " "Who're 'they?'" I asked him. Again -- evasively: "Just 'they.'" "Yeah? How much do I have on deposit with you?" I asked, shoving the last # at him. "Including this?" He counted it and added the figure to a page of the ledger. He seemed surprised as he replied, "#." That's how I felt -- surprised. How come it so nearly balanced? "Pay her lOU's -- and yourself," I told him. The girl was frankly crying now, shaking her head vigorously at me to indicate a "no." "Cut it out!" I told her. Then to the manager: "You get her room unlocked -- pronto! -- meaning, take out the plugs you put in the lock." "Yes, sir" He reached for one of his phones. "Miss Jones -- " I began. "Call me Jan," she said through the tears. "And I'm Chuck, Chuck Radford. Let's go!" W A t the desk I asked for my key -- and hers. They were # and # -- adjoinmg roomsi Coincidence? Not by a damn sight. This gave me pause, and a s m a l l voice confirmed thait it had been planned that way. I was two people again -- or something. The clerk grinned as he passed over the keys. "And wipe that idiotic smirk off your pussl" I gritted, "or I'll bash your teeth down your throat." He looked and acted like a wooden puppet after that. The elevators here were automatic, of course; and as the girl stepped through the open door it almost shut in my face before I was able to get in after her. I forced it back and was in. The little # square was already lighted as the door closed and the car started up. It was then I saw the hoodlum in the comer, with a wicked looking snub-nosed automatic weaving to cover first the girl and then me. "This is a snatch!" he declared, "and you, dude, keep the hell out of it or you'll get it first." I'd get it anyway, I decided -- if he could manage. He wasn't going to leave any witness alive. So, glad that I'd kept up with my judo and karate practice, I chopped down on his wrist before he could move or pull the trigger. He screamed as the wrist snapped and the gun boomed, making a neat round hole in the floor. I chopped again, first intending to get him directly beneath that crooked nose, a chop that might well have proved fatal. So I dropped my swing and hit his throat with the edge of my stiffened hand instead. His eyes popped, his face puirpled and he fell to the floor In lagony. For good measure, I kicked his temple. Hard. And he was out This was when Jan fainted. We were still rising: #, #, #. I grabbed the emergency phone with the girl draped over my other arm and told the operator: "Send your house dick up to floor #. He'll find a gunsel -- a would-be killer -- in elevator six. Out cold. I'll block the elevator at #." I carried Jan to # and deposited her limp form on one of the full-sized beds. The room was a duplicate of mine next door, and I unbolted the connecting door on her side, then went over and did the same on mine. No wrong intention, you understand, only good. Jan needed help now -- and protection. Like Nelot had said of Aria. Turning out the bright overhead lights, leaving only her bedlamp burning, I returned to my own room. But not for long. "Chuck," she called, her voice sounding fuzzy and uncertain. When I returned to her room, she was sitting on the edge of the bed, swaying slightly. "Where am I?" she asked dazedly. "In your own room," I told her, "and I'm right next door. So don't be afraid of anything -- especially of me. And I want you to go to bed now and get the rest you need. I'm leaving the connecting door ajar, and you call me if you need me. Any time of the night." Suddenly I was very tired myself...Vv-VvA ' 'KAhu.i irS! # i A' ; i "All right, Chuck," she agreed submissively. Than again and good night." "Im going to tub now and turn in myself," I told her, almost losing my trance as I went through into my own room. "Good night." It was then I remember that Jan's eyes, though blue, seemed to have golden glints in them when tears were in their comers. That her hair, chestnut brown, had glinted golden at certain angles under the bedlamp. What it all meant I couldn't imagine. I shook my head to clear it. X ater, as I lay between the cool sheets and was about to doze off, I thought I heard movement in Jan's room. But there wasn't any light, in either room. Only a stray moonbeam streaked across my floor. I was imagining things again. Or was I? But the patter of soft feet on thick carpeting couldn't be mistaken, and then my covers moved and someone slid in beside me. "Jan?" I husked, unbelievingly. "Yes," a small voice replied. I still couldn't believe it. My hand strayed hesitantly toward her and touched smooth, warm, naked flesh. I yanked the hand back as if I had burned it. Now look, I'm no Don Juan nor even an avid girl-watcher. At the same time I haven't reached the age of thirty entirely celibate. My physical reaction was swift and urgent, as would be that of any normal healthy male. There wiasn't any small voice to say no, and I didn't need one. I said it to myself -- sternly. "What're you doing here?" I asked her. "Why I... I...  thought... after all you saved my life in elevator. You -- you paid my -- " "And now you think you owe me... this -- " "Ye-yes." A barely audible whisper. "Sure you know what you're doing?" "Y-yes. I know." "How old are you?" "Al-almost twenty-one." "Married?" "No." -- "Then you're a virgin." It was a statement, not a question. "Y-yes." I burned. "Get out of here," I snapped. "Out of my bed, Jan. Before I change my mind." She got. Swiftly. The soft patter of her running feet left me sweating. Then I heard her sobbing softly over there in her own room. I fek like a heel, and I'll never tell you why. I lay there quaking as the sobs died down in the stillness. Utter stillness. It spooked me, and I listened. Hard. In a little wMe I thought I heard movement lagain over there. I padded softly to the connecting door, following a moonbeam from floor to open window, through which it shone. And there on the sill was a girl-figure, clearly outlined through a sheer nightie against the light of the moon. Her hair was golden. Almost flinging myself across the intervening distance, trying to make no noise diat migihit startle her into making the fatal leap, I threw my aims around -- nothing -- which is what was theire. Nobody. No gown. No girl. I was imaginmg things again. Turning to the wall switch, I flooded the room widi light I there, in her own bed, curled up with the covers pulled tightly about her, was Jan. Lxxking plenty scared. 'And her eyes were as blue as the midday sky, her hair russet brown. With no sign of golden glints. I began to breathe again. "Oh, it's you. Chuck," she said, blinking. "What is it? Did I cry out in my sleep?" "No. Just thought I heard a noise in here. Go back to sleep, my dear." I turned out the lits. "Thanks some more. Chuck. And good night -- again." "Thank me not," was all I managed to say. "Good night." Guess I'd meant to say something funny. Funny ha-ha, you know, not funny strange, but nothing occurred to me that'd fit. Perhaps I was just too damned gjad the swell kid didn't remember. Or had it been Jan in my bed at all? I'd never know for sure. IV I must have passed out as soon as I hit the hay... Prince Bor and Princess Aria of Xenor were in each other's arms, and the Mindmaster was smiling with satisfaction as he watched them. "She's completely cured," he assured Bor. "Thanks to my host. Chuck," Boc said. "And to my dear litde hostess," Aria put in. "Really, my dear Bor, I think it was she who was most reqKxnsible for my cure. She was marvelous, and I hope the things I made her do won't get her into any trouble." 'Trouble? No -- no trouble," said the Mindmaster. "What can we do for them. Nelot?" asked Bor. "Let me think, let me think." Nelot looked like a kindly old gentleman in a clerical robe. "We must and we can do real favors for them both. I shall tbinic of something and arrange for it. Meanwhile, you two get out idiere on the bialoony and show yourselves to your subjects. They're awaiting the good news -- eagy." The mists closed in .   A t #:# A.M. I woke up, feeling strangely alone. For a moment I couldn't remember wh:e I was or why. Had I dreamed all this? I stumbled to the connecting door and found it locked on the other dde. Knocking on it brought no response, so I tried die telephone. "Room # does not answer," the operator told me aJter long ringing. "Just a moment. Sir." Then, after a half minute: "Miss Jones checked out at six. Mister Radford." The time it took me to shave, shower and dress was neglible. There was no message in my box when I inquired downstairs -- not a thing. She might at least have left a note, I thought on the spur of the moment. But then I guessed it was just as well and I decided to ohialk it off against experience -- forget it. The money, you ask? Never would have felt right about the winnings anyway. Iad to earn mine. Besides which, I knew that the Mindmaster out there -- and Bor -- really managed the phenomenal luck. In another hour I was on a plane for LA. The weather was beautiful, and the passengers either grumpy or mirdiful, depending on what ieir luck had been. WTtich meant that most of them were quiet, staring out the windows. Only about three besides the hostesses wore smiles. Then everything changed. I was in one of those little aircars of Xenor, heading over the dty toward the pdace. The streets below were in uproarious celebration, long streamers draped the buildings and The Small Folk, flitted everywhere, caroling. Even the sun seemed to halo spun and tilted crazily. Bor and Aria stood on the balcony, and the multitude in the plaza was jubilant. Shouting, dancing, hugging one lanother indiscriminately. If this was in LA, the police would be wondering when to step in. Unexpectedly and mysteriously, then, I was in the Mindmaster's mind, and he was in mine. He stood behind the prince and princess, and for a short time I was seeing through his eyes and hearing through his ears how the joyous celebrants in the plaza down there were making known their love for their princess and her consort. The two objects of their subjects' acclaim remained enclasped and were obviously the happiest couple in Xenor. Perhaps in all of Tau Ceti II. That they were very much in love with each other and with their people was patent. T he aircar I occupied took a sudden leap and zoomed upward at iuoredible speed as Nelot's thinking told me we would visit selected spots on the daylight side of his planet. Which is what happened. As in one of our travelogues, I saw and sensed and heard the land of this world at various points and from many angles. Now we were over an inky sea that I knew separated us from the only other continent. Over hundreds of kilometers of well kept blue and orange farm lands with prim living and service buildings. The rose-misted mountains provided a background for it all, and then we swooped down into another colorful city with tall pyramidal buildings and parades and celebrations much the same as in Xenor. I learned that their language was different here. The people, too, were proportioned differently, being shorter and with broader features. But the Small Folk were everywhere, the same here and just as happy. Now we were in a purple jungle, sweeping over waving fronds of tall feathery growths. Down into a clearing where nearly naked, deeply tanned, natives performed a joyous dance about what looked to be a three-meter-taJl layer cake with imaiges of their ers, the prince and princess, topping it all. The tour continued, end I piracdcally felt my eyes bugging ifrom my head. But the Mindmasiter's thoughts held me in complete enthrallment. "We've seen enough," he at length conveyed, "enough so you know how truly grateful are our people. To you and to the one you call Jan we have caused to # engraved medals which convey our humble thanks -- in your own tongue -- for your invaluable help." He pressed a heavy packet into my hands be:re I could object or reply and concluded: "For your part and hers in the cure of our princess. For oiu: own sent... A soft hand was tapping my shoulder, a soft voice telling me, "We are over Los Angeles and will land in Ontario Airport in ten minutes. Sir. Please fasten your seat belt." A sniiMng hostess. The little aircar had multiplied in size and completely changed character. I saw up front the lighted sign: own airliners. But the heavy packet, with its outworidly wrappings, was on my knees. H aving parked my Thunderbird out back, I came into my office through the rear door and didn't notice for a moment that I had a visitor -- a big character who sprawled all over my best leatherupholstered client's chair. "Who're you and bow'd you get in?" I asked all in one breath. "Pushed past your gal out front. She said you was away, and she didn't seem to know or care when you'd be back. So I told her Fd wait right here if it was for a week." Then I got a good look at him. Fiftyish. A character all right, but he did have a disarming grin. Ten gallon hat, which he never bothered to take off, cowboy rig that fitted him badly over his generous pouch, and -- so help me! -- high heeled boots with spurs! He tossed a card expertly to my desk top and stood up. The card "I'm Jeffers," he declared, rising and sticking out a big homy paw. "Senior partner." They were a well known, well thought of outfit. I evaded the grip, which I could see was meant to be crushing, and a quick thumb-bend brought him to one knee, red-faced. "Sorry," I said. But I wasn't. "Must have slipped," he mumbled as he got up. I could have sworn I heard a muffled feminine giggle. I'd have Miss Bailey on the carpet if I found she'd been eavesdropping. "Now what might be your business, Mister Jeffers?" I was again back of my desk, and he in the chair. He guffawed and I simply had to laugh with him, this buffon. Then he sobered. "I'm offering you a contract, a job. You know we have the rdnfordng steel mostly welded up and are almost ready to start pouring concrete on the Kern County Dam, I suppose?" "Yes, I know that." Jeffers lowered his voice. "I want you to make a complete inspection now and after the dam is compleled. The fee is fifty grand, and #I add # more if you -- weU -- oveUodk a few things." "You mean you're cutting down on materials, on quaiity, event on workmanship -- and want me for a cover-up." The man hemmed a little, reddeor ed anew. "Y-you might say thaL" This time I didn't merely bum; I blazed: "Go plumb to hell, will you? And get out of here fast!" The reaction was amazing. Jeffers fell out of the chair, yelling with laughter, holding his sides as he rolled over and over on my best rug. "You'll do, you'll do, young fellow!" he roared. Then, from the washroom stepped a vision, if ever there was one. # Tan!" I shouted, then halted my al rush toward her. She was bending over Jeffers, helping him back po his chair. "See, daddy," she exulted. "Didn't I tell you?" As she stood up to face me, I guess I stared like a stupe. She was the living image of Bor's princess Aria in far-off Xenor. Excepting for color of eyes and hair -- the image. Same faultless ivory skin, same traffic-stopping figure. But what was this daddy business? "I'm Joyce Jeffers," she explained before I could ask. "And I had to prove two things to daddy. First you. He didn't believe there was a young engineer from LA with in-integrity like I described. And then I had to prove I'd had amnesia." "Aimiesia?" I felt still more stupid. 'Yes, and I suppose this seems strange to you too, but from the time I left home until that -- that night I wasn't Joyce Jeffers but Janice Jones. And yet now I remember -- well most all -- what happened during the Vegas days. Only sometimes I was Jan and sometimes -- Aria." "Aria? You know then?" I moved closer to the vision. The long lashes dropped, then raised again so she could regard me as I thirstily took her in from the top of her faultless coiffure to her silken knees, calves, ankles. "Yes Bor," she whispered. "Geel" I exclaimed like a schoolboy. Her dad was looking on with a broad grin on his puss. "Beat it, Pop," I told him, and he tippy-toed toward the outer door. She arched those pouty, kissable red lips, revealing glistening white teeth in a dazzling but really human and understanding smile. Her face was turned up to mine, and she was so close now that the scent she used was strong in my nostrils. What was a guy supposed to do? Just what I did, and thoroughly. Hungrily. For this is what I had spent all my previous life to earn -- without knowing it Time stood still, but at length we were in this world and had opened the packet from Tau Ceti U and were examining its contents hand in hand and with our heads very close together. There were two beautifully executed medallions, made of an extremely heavy metal that looked like platinum but was iridescent. Most beautifully engraved on these were the words the Mindmaster had hinted at. Joyce's name was correct and correctly spelled. So was mine, even to the "Charles," which I detested but put up with. This Nelot knew much more about us than we did ourselves. The left edge of my medallion was notched to slip into and form a supplement to Joyce's. In fact when the two slid togeer it was like a single larger plaque. "Why don't we?" breathed Joyce. "First preacher I can get," said I. And we agreed afterward that we bad then heard a trio of delighted musical chuckles, one bass, one tenor, and the other a rich contralto. Besides a cheery chorus of flutterings and the exultant chant: knew. We knew." Complete Short Novel by Robert Silverberg A Handbook for Tomorrow's Texans by H. H. Holls ib: Dear Editor: IF is one of my favorite SP magazines -- and it's also one of the worst magazines on the market. story done well -- based on a poor subject is more salable than a good story done around a good idea -- wihen the latter is written without any skill." Now I'm not saying that IF has no time or effort put into it -- evidently quite a lot of work goes into the mag -- work is needed to produce anything approaching a magazine. However, it's apparent that not enough work goes toto IP. You, Mr. Pohl, should not be content to let a writer develop all by himself. If it looks like you're getting a new author that has some potential, work with him a little bit -- Dannie Plachta came up with his first decent story in the July, #, issue. And it's pretty visible that thedevelopment of this new writer has been through the work of the author alone. Looking back at Robert A. Heinlein's The Moon ia a Harsh Mistress, you can see a story that could have been vastly improved with a little editorial help. Heinlein looked like he was coming back into the swingof-things with this one. And then what does he do for a conclusion? He gives a lecture. Boy, what a let down. You, Mr. Pohl, could have shown Heinlein what the public wanted. Through a discussion between myself and several other fans it has been  decided that Heinlein's big problem has been his conclusions. Look at the racially biased Sixth Column (in paperback: The Dau After Tomorrow") at least the ending continues and concluded the plot. I'm not saying that our hardworking editor, (alias Frederik Pohl) should have forced Heinlein to peddle his piece to another mag -- but what I do say is this : Work with your magazines. Impress your personality upon your magazines. If you have an author that looks like a prospective Giant in the Earth, work with the man. And work with the authors so that we can have more stories that fit into IP and give the audience more to appreciate. IF is an extremely weird position; this is the only magazine that can bridge the gap between "Quality" science fiction and science fiction for "Entertainment". That bridge is your best' bet. And the bridge can only be built through a lot of hard work on the part of the editor. Cross "entertaining" stories with quality materials, and what have you got? You've got the most popur lar type of story in a growing genre. This cross is the thing that's going to bring an increase in dinnilation -- not the advertisements for the "Rosicmcians." Oh yeah -- in "Hue and Cry", let the heading of each letter be what the writer originally intended it to be. This letter is not headed with "Dear Editor", and that heading just looks a little too much like something out of a comic book. In other words, don't change the headings for uniformity's sake. There's all ready too much conformity -- and all that kind of junk. Besides, different headings should help the development of the mag's personality. -- Jim Young, # TJlysaes Street N.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota #.    Dear Editor: I noticed Mr. Arthur C. Clarke's letter in the June If. There is indeed a story entitled The Anticipator which ends with the line, "And the anticipator, horribly afraid, ran down a by-street." It is not by H. G. Wells, however. It is by Morley Robeiis and appeared in his The Grinders Wheel (Nelson, #) and was reprinted in Dorothy L. Sayers' The Omnibus of Crime (Harcourt. Brace and Co., #), which is where I found it. This is all the information I have about the story. I suggest that you refuse to pass this information on to Arthur C. Clarke, at least until he ajgrees to write a new novel which will be serialized in If. I thought that the style of Mr. Leslie A. Beece's letter in the same issue seemed unpleasantly familiar. When I checked the address I discovered, lo and behold, that Mr. Reece has the same address as Stephen E. Pickering, who writes in the same pointlessly polysyllabic fashion as Mr. Reece. Is this the reason, perhaps that Mr. Reese bemoans the fact that fans "have completely ignored... writings of the fan-sociologist Stephen Pickering... "? Has the secret identity of Stephen Pickering been unveiled? Now that you have Andre Norton and Samuel Delany in If, don't let them get away. I must, however, say that Driftglass was far below Delany's usual high standards. When the heck are we going to Hank Davis, #I Linden Walk, Lexington, Kentucky #. # You'll get the next Heinlein the minute we can bring it to you -- but when that will be is anyone's guess. The counfounded man is building himself a new house, and until that's done, no novels! Incidentally, the identity of the "Wells" story was tracked down also by Robert A. Gould, Frank McSherry, Jr., Robert Coulson, Dean McLaughlin, Donald Franson and -- oh, yes, Arthur Clarke himself, shortly after we printed his letter. -- Editor.   m Dear Editor: I started reading If about five years ago when it was in the doldrums and have watched it grow and grow imtil now it is the finest science-fiction mag around. In fact, I have been reading If for so long that I feel like one of the oldtimers. I have just finished The Iron Thom and, although I have reservations, consider it one of the finest sci-fi novels I have ever read. Budrys's work has always been good, and his only fault was that he did not write often enough, a fault which you seem to be correcting. Let me add that he is also my favorite book critic. It is a pleasure to read someone who does not indiscriminately recommend every scifi book on the miarket. If I bought every book the other reviewers recommended, I would soon be povertystricken. So Budrys's column comes as a breath of fresh air. However, I intended to write about Budrys the author, not Budrys the critic, and I do have one criticism of The Iron Thom, After all the care with which Budrys built tip the complex society of Amsirs and (humans, and the fascinating odyssey of Honor Jackson to Ea, the final chapters come as a disappointment. I do not know what I expected, but certainly not the same sterile society seen before in countless inferior novels, and presented in sudi a dull fashion. Up to this point The Iron Thom had been fresh npd inventive, but suddenly the author's imagination deserts him. I feel that Budrys, who has always taken the trouble to create real people for his stories, spent so much time in characterization and striving to avoid the usual space-opera cliches, that he forgot about his plot. By the time the novel ends, nothing is resolved, either on Earth or Mars. I would like to know what happened between the Amsirs and the humans after Jackson left Mars, and I would like to see more of Jackson's adventures on Earth. It seems to me that the author ended The Iron Thom before he finished his story. Of course, there is always the possibility that I am criticising Budrys for writing a differt story from that which he wanted to write, in which case I apologize, but I still think that the last quarter of The Iron Thom does not measure up to the first three quarters. Tuminjg to another topic, a recent article in Variety reports that Star Trek has been renewed for next season which surely comes as good news to all  readers. It is a pleasure to see good science fiction on TV after ibeing inundated with tripe like Lost In Space and The Time TunneL The latter is not even science fiction, but an adventure series with a "you are there" gimmick. Your letter column has been full of comments on Star Trek and TV sci-fi, but no one ever writes about those recent movies: The Fantastic Voyage and the great Fahrenheit J#, Don't fans go to the movies any more? -- Patrick Swift, # Marion Avenue, Bronx, New York #.    Dear Editor: This thing about your artwork for If has been going on for quite some time now, and I don't see where anything has dianged; at least not for the better. I remember back when Galaxy was just starting out, in an editorial, the editor (H. L. Gold) said something like, "In this issue, you can see the changes that you, the readers, have voted for." Now I feel that even though that was way back in the fourth issue of Galaxy, I think that you still wish to live up to your old policy. After all, it is us readers that keep your magazine going I So why not take a poll, and see what changes the readers would like? I know that you can't please all the readers all the time, but I'm sure that most of the readers would like to see a change in the artwork in If. Why not ask them and see? I Do us both a favor, publish this letter in Hue  Cry, and see what the rest of your readers think. While your art isn't the best, your stories are, and they won you your Hugo. Keep up the good stories, and you will get another Hugo. Just another reason to improve your art; why cant a first-class magazine (which is what the Hugo represents) have first-class art? Glad to see that you have Philip Jose Farmer coming up in If. He has to be one of the most original authors living! And his '"Riverworld" series is great. Another good writer that, seems to do quite a lot for you is Larry Niven. One last thing, do you see the sony novel, Rogue Star, anytime soon? -- Randall Richmond, # Shadow Wood Drive, Houston, Texas #. # Some time in the next few months -- we hope. It would have been running by now but we keep getting stories by others that politeness directs us to run first! -- Editor.    Dear Editor: Wherever youVe keeping Ifs Hugo, make room for more. On the basis of the first five issues of #, especially the March issue, youVe got it made. Your habit of overlapping serials is a superb one, especially when you have serials by Budrys, Chandler and Laumer. Terry Carr and Larry Niven are the finds of the year... any year. And then there is the Berserker series by Fred Saberhagen. YouVe performed an invaluable service by encouraging new authors,  Oh, yes. You hinted at the possibility of an addition to your line-up of magazines -- then silence. What's cooking? -- David Charles Paskow, # West #th Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania #. # Coming off the back burner soon : International Science Fiction, the same being a new magazine devoted to publishing stories from other parts of the planet Earth, as for instance Russia, Germany, France, Australia, etc. -- Editor,    Dear Editor: #'s policy of giving new writers their start is paying off: The Soft Weapon, by Larry Niven, is one of the best sf stories, by a new or old writer, that I have ever read. If I may be sacrilegious, I think it's as exciting as anything Asimov or Clarke or Heinlein has ever done. One question: since the February issue came out in #, is The Soft Weapon eligible for awards for '# or '#? -- Jeff Rensch, Webb School, Claremont, California #.  For #, according to our reading of the rules... and we agree that it's a worthy nomination! That does us for another month. This month's "first" is To Serve The Masters, by Perry A. Chapdelaine, a mathematics professor from Tennessee. We don't often run a writer's maiden effort as long as this one... but we don't often get one like To Serve the Masters, either! In case you missed the earlier discussions, what these 'firsts"" are all about is simply that every issue we bring you at least one writer who has never been in print with a science-fiction story before. Where do they come from? In the mail -- submitted to If at its regular editorial office, neatly typed, doublespaced, white paper, with stamped self-addressed return envelope enclosed. Are they required to follow special rules? No; they are considered along, with stories by our regulars and have to compete with them for interest. Who do they come from? Why, often enough, someone very much like you...   w A new science-fiction magazine with a new concept in publishing Each issue will be filled with stories by Foreign Authors Will give American readers a chance to read the science-fiction stories by Authors popular in the rest of the world. Written and translated by the top writers throughout the world. We hope you will like it. For sixteen years ular feature. Now in hardbound book form. The first of a seriesupdated and divided by subjects into separate books. Facts and figures as can write them. Send today. Satisfaction gaaranteed. may return the book(s) within two weeks without cost or obligation if not completely satisfied. Otherwise, I'll be billed just # per copy, plus shipping costs as payment in full. ft privilege guaranteed, of course.  The Biggest and Best Silkie Story Yet Plus Many Other Great Stories and Features Your Subscription is Your Private Window On the stars in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it has its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the inlFormation requested on a plain piece of paper.) Fro then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Wifi the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better! #I Hudson Street New York, N.Y. # Yes, start my subscription to Galaxy right away. I enclose   my check or money order for: r n # issues for # j I # Issues for #  Name... Address   City  State Zip Code U.S. only. Add #c per issue foreign postage. Please check whether QJ new or Q renewal. Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost C'Mell Cordwainer Smith The Big Time Fritz Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man Alfred Bester Do  Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit # Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Masters Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Rey Vol. #, No. # Fredenk PobI, Editor Robert M, Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circuiation Director by A. E. Van Vogt by C. C. MacApp by Hal Clement by James Blish by Larry Ekenberg by Donald J. Walsh by Max H. Flindt by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF publlsbed monthly by Galaxy Publishing Oorppratlon, Robert M. GiJdnm President, VoL #, No. #. Main Otfloe: #. Street. New York, #. eoc per csopy Suipalptlon # issues # Inrhe United States, Canada, MiOT, South America and Central Amerln and U.S. Jdsseions, elsewh .OO. and at additional mailing Second-class postw Paid at New Yoris. New Yol . , jofflces. Copyright by Galaxy Publiahlng OorpcRration, #. All right, lnclu( Ing translation reserved. Ail matnlal must be accompanied by self-addrewea stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for mliclted material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between chrars and actual persons Is oolncl dental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company. New York. N.Y. # IF  Editorial N ot long ago, one of our satellites was put to work photomapping part of Arizona -- something that sateAliites can do rather better than any other means known to man, if only (because a single exposure photographs a whole state at that moment. ( Conventional aerial photographs have to be patched together, and that's a mess, when you've got a piece photographed at #:# AM that should match up with one photographed at noon. But how? The angles of the shadows are different; the appearance is different; the information is there, sort of, but it takes a highly trained analyst to get it out.) In the northwest comer of Ajrizona the picture revealed a long, thin line. A geological fault I -- crowed the photo-interpi'etation crew, a fault where no one had ever detected one before I And so teams of geologists hotfooted it out to the indicated point, because a geological fault is not juist a point of interest, it is more often than not a place where minerals can be found. Unfortunately no minerals were found in this case, ibecause the "fault" turned out to be a range fence, photographed from orbit. The way we heard about that was Ksteninjg to one scientist telling a joke on some other scientists -- and as a matter of fact, the reactions were probably pretty funny when they reached their "fault" site. But ever and above the anecdotal value of the incident, it illustrates something about the capacities of our satellites. We can see a lot from space; and we can report it back to Earth, very quickly, very quickly and reliably. A couple of days later, the Near East erupted into war; and about a week later, the United Nations erupted into its own kind of war, a war of words,with much talk about whose trooi)s were where and whose aircraft carriers were doing what to whom. Listening to the bland and barefaced statements of some of the diplomats involved as they appeared on television, we couldn't help thinking of those recon satellites... and couldn't help wishing we had a few more of them in orbit, openly reporting to the world what they observed with their electronic eyes. No doubt sovereign states do have the privilege of tellinig flatfooted lies when they want to -- anyway, the custom is sanctioned by several thousand years of precedent -- but it seems pretty childish to lie about something that can be readily checked. No wonder all those U. N. delegates looked so haggard I Probably they were thanking about what a little "open sky" surveillance can do to diplomacy over the next few years -- and realizing that technological unemployment may be reaching out to claim another hatch of victims I For sixteen years ular feature. Now in hardbound book form. The first of a seriesupdated and divided Jby subjects into separate books. Facts and fibres as can write them. Send today. Satisfaction guaranteed. may return the book(s) within two weeks without cost or obligation If not completely satisfied. Otherwise, I'll be billed just # per copy, plus shipping costs as payment in full. privilege guaranteed, ox course. IF  Serial My ob was simply to find and punish energy wasters -- even at the bottom of the ocean! I 've never met a psychiatrist prolessanaily and don't much want to, but just then I iraitheir wished thene was one around to talk to. It waan that I felt like cracking up; but when you have something profound to say, you lake to have it appreciated, and it would have taken a professional really to apprecitate the remark I wanted to make at that moment. There's a word for people who can't stand being out in the open with crowds staring at them,' and there's another one for those who get tali in a dither from being cramped into a small space. They're both common enough ailments, but I would ihave liked to place a bet that no one before had ever suffered from agoraphobia and claustrophobia simultaneously. With a name like mine, of course, I've never exactly sought the public eye, and usually I resist the temptation even to make ibright remarks in company. Just then, thougji, I was wishing there was someone to hear that diagnosis of my feeliings. Or maybe I was just wing there was someone. I couldn't hear the storm any more. The Pugnose had broken up almost where she was supposed to. She had hit the heavy weather just where the metro office had said she would, and her fuel had run out Wthin five minutes of that time -- thixt even I could have predicted; trust a Board boss to make sure Dio more stored energy than could possibly be helped went down with her. There was some battery power left, though, and I had kept a ruhning Loran check uinitiil she drifited as close to Point X as she was going to. This turned out to be about half a mile. When I saiw I was going on past the key spot I blew the sqtdbs, and poor httle Pugnose started to come apart amidships. Shield never been intended for any other purpose, and I hadn't fallen in love with her as some people Ddiglht have, but I didn't like the slgM the same. It seemed wasteful. I didrf t spend any time brooding over it, though. I ducked into the tank and sealed it and let nature tiiike its course. By now, if static pressure instruments could be traced, the tank and I were eight hundred feet down. It was very, very quiet. I knew water was going by because the depth was increasing about two feet a second, but I couldn't hear it. Any loose pieces of the boat were long gone, floatables being scattered over the Pacific and sinkables mostly preceding me toward the bottom. I'd have been disturbed as well as surprised to hear anything solid bump against my particular bit of wreckage. The sUence was good news, but it still made me uncomfortable. I 'd 'been in space once -- a waste investigation at one of the Board's fusion research stations -- and there was the same complete lack of sound. I hadn't liked ik then; it gave me the impression that the universe was deliberately snubbing me until the time would come to sweep up pay retmadns. I didn't like it now, though the feeling was diffefeiit -- this lime it wias as though someone were waitolhing carefully to see what I was up (to and was trjdng to make up has mind when to do something about it. A psychiatrist wouldn't have been much help with that notion, of course, because there was a good chance that it was true. Bert Whelsrtrahl had disappeared in this volume of water a year before. Joey Elfven, as competent an engineer and siubmariner as could be found on Earth, had been lost track of ten months later in the same neighborhood. They were both friends of mine, and I was bothered by their vanishing. Six weeks ago, Marie Wladetzki had followed (the other two. Ihis was much worse from my point of view. She was not an investigator, of course -- the Board, as personified by its present boss whose name I'll leave out of this account, doesn't believe women are objective enough -- but that didn't mean she couldn't be curious. Also, she'd been as interested in Joey as I was in her. Being Marie, she hadn't actually broken the letter of any regulations when she took out a Board sub at Papeete, but she most certainly strained the spirit of most of them. She hadn't said where she was going and had last checked in between Pitcairn and Oejo a thousand miles from where I was now sinking with the remains of Pugnose; but no one who knew her had any doubts about where to look first. The boss was human enough to volunteer me for the look-see. My own inclination would have been to do just that -- take a sub and see what had happened; but brains won out. Bert's disappearance could have been an accident, although there were already grounds for suspicion about the Easter Island area. Joey's vanishing within Half a dozen miles of the same spot could conceivably have been coincidence -- the sea can still outguess man on occasion. After Marie's loss, though, only a very stupid person would have gone barging into the region any more obviously than he could help. Therefore, I was now a thousand feet below the top of the Pacific and several times as far above the bottom, camouflaged as part of a wrecked boat. I didn't know exactly how much water was still below me; even though my last fix on the surface had been pretty good and I'd acquired an excellent knowledge of the bottom contours north of Rapanui, I couldn't be sure I was going straight down. Currents near an island are not the smooth, steady things suggested by those little arrows on small-scale maps of the Pacific. I might, of course, have tried echo-sounding, but to control that temptation I had no emission instruments in the tank except floodlights; and I had no intention of using even those until I had some assurance that I was alone. See without being seen was the current policy. The assurance would come, if ever, very much later, after I had reached the bottom and spent a good, long time listening. I n the meantime I watched the pressure gauge, which told how the water was piling up above me, and the sensors which would let me know if anyone else was using sonar gear in the neighborhood. I wasn't sure whether I wanted them to react or not. If they did, it would be progress; I'd know someone was down here who shouldn't be -- but it might be the same sort of progress the other three had made. It might not be grounds for too much worry, since fifteen or twenty feet of smashed hull would show on any sonar scope for just what it was, and supposedly the tank inside would IP not. Of course, some sonarmen are harder to fool than others. I could look out, of course. The tank had ports, and a couple of them faced the opening where Pugnoses stern used to be. I could even see things at times. There were flecks of phosphorescence diiMng upward and streaks of loiminosity not quite bright enough to identify in color wthich sometimes whipped past and vanished in the gloom and sometimes drifted for minutes in front of a port as though they marked the position of something which was trying curiously to look in. I was tempted -- not very strongly, but tempted -- to turn on my lights once or twice to see what the things were. The wreckage was tumbling slowly. I had been assured that this wouldn't happen -- that weight had been distributed so that the sharp prow would always point down and leave the tank on top when I ihit bottom -- but there was no one to complain to. There also seemed to be nothing to do about it, and I began to wonder just what I could accomplish if the tank wound up in bottom ooze, or even on hard rock, with the wreckage on top of it. The thing had little enough maneuverability as it was. With very much extra weight, dropping ballast might not be enough to start me 'back toward the surface. I couldn't shift my own weight enough to affect the tumbling at all. The tank's inside diameter was only about six feet, and much of that volume was taken up by fixed apparatus. Some of my friends have shown a tendency to solve problems by doing nothing until the last possible moment. I've outlived most of them. Once I'd noticed the tumbling, it took me about five seconds to run through the possible actions. I could cut loose from the wreckage right now, exposing the nearly spherical form of the tank to anyone who was watching with a good sonar -- though no one had been so far. I could turn on the lights so as to see the bottom before I hit and, hopefully, still separate in time if it proved necessary; that would also be inconsistent with the concealment plan. I could sit and hope I would land in the right attitude in spite of the tumbling -- that is, do nothing. That might mean that I would have to argue for my life with the laws of nature, which are harder to convince than most human opponents. The first two choices meant -- well, maybe Bert and Joey and Marie were still alive. I reached for the light switch. I didn't touch it, though. All of a sudden I could see the bottom anyway. At least, it looked as though it ought to be the bottom. It was in the right direction -- I could still tell up from down -- and it seemed flat. And it was visible. II I didn't believe it, of course. I'm a very conservative person who likes even his fiction realistic, and this was too much to swallow. I had to stop reading The Maracot Deep when I was young because it described a luminous ocean bottom. I know Conan Doyle had never been down and needed the light for story purposes and didn't have very high standards of consistency anyway, but it still bothered me. I knew he was wrong for the same reason everyone does -- the bottom just isn't bright. Only now it was. The tumbling wreck was swinging me upward away from the light, and I had time to decide whether I should believe my eyes or not. I could still read instruments. The pressure dial gave a direct depth of four thousand eight hundred eighty feet; a quick mental correction from the record tape of the thermograph added another two hundred or so. I certainly should be near the bottom, somewhere on the northern slopes of the mountain whose peaks are Rapanui. I swung gently over the top and back down the other side, and my line of sight pointed downward again. Whether I wanted to believe my eyes or not, they insisted there was light in that direction. It was a gentle yellow-green glow -- just the sort of thing you use in lighting effects to give the impression of on underwater scene. At first it looked uniform and smooth; then, a few turns later and two hundred feet lower, it showed a pattern. The pattern was of squares, with their corners just a little brighter than the rest of the area. It didn't cover the whole bottom; its edge was almost below me, and it extended toward what I thought was the north. though my compass wasn't reacting too well to the tumbling. In the other direction was the normal comforting and frightening darkness -- that was real enough. Two things happened at almost the same instant. It became evident that I was going to come down pretty close to the edge of the light area, and it also became obvious what the light area was. The second realization got to me. For three or four seconds I was so furious and disgusted that I couldn't plan, and as a result I almost didn't get around to telling this story. The light was artificial. Believe it if you can. I realize that for a normal person it's hard. Wasting watts to light up the outdoors is bad enough, but sometimes it's a sad necessity. Spending power to illuminate the sea bottom, though -- well, as I say, for a few moments I was too furious to think straight. My job has brought me into contact with people who were careless with energy, with people who stole it, and even with people who misused it; but this was a brand new dimension! I was lower now and could see acres and acres of light stretching off to the north, east, and west until it blurred out of sight. Acres and acres lighted by things suspended a few yards above the level bottom, things visible only as black specks in the center of slightly brighter areas. At least, whoever was responsible for this display had some sense of economy; he was using reflectors. Then I got my anger under control, or maybe my fear did it for me. IF I siiddemly realiized itihiait I was only a few dozen yaids laibove the ligjbts. I was not goang to come down among them, but a little to the south. I couidfi't say safely to the south. I couldn't say safely anything, because my assemblage of Pugnosebow and safety tank was turning over slowly enough to let me predict the attitude it would have when it hit bottom, and it looked pretty certain that the open end of the huiU would be underneath. Q uite aside from the fact that I wouldn't be able to see anything from under the wreckage, there was the likelihood that I wouldn't be able to do anything either -- such as get back to the surface. This time I did reach the controls. Since the whole idea hinged on concealment, the separators used springs rather than squibs. I waited until the spin put the hulk between me and the light and punched the botton. The push was light enough to make me wonder for a few seconds whether I mightn't he in even worse trouble than I'd supposed. Then light began to come in through ports which had been covered by the hull, and that worry ended. The springs had kicked the tank aiway from the lighted region, so I could see Pugnoses bow outlined against the luminescence. The separation had slowed our flaU very slightly with the wrecfcage now going just a trifle faster than I was. At least something was going as planned; the wreck would hit first, so there should be no chance of my getting trapped under it. I hadn't expected to see it hit bottom, of course. I would certainly never have expected to see what happened when it did. For the most part, level stretches of sea bottom tend to be on the gooey side. They may call it gkblgerina ooze or radiolarian ooze, but it's usually obze. You can meet with coral and sand and other firrstuff in shallow water and honest rock at times on slopes, but whe-e it's level you expect something like a cross between ordinary mud and the top couple of inches of a stagnant pond. When something hard and heavy lands on it, even gently, you don't expect the bottom to give it much suppKWi:. You may sometimes be surprised on this matter, but you never count on anything bouncing off the sea bottom. Pugnose didn't exactly bounce, I have to admit, but she certainly didn't behave properly. She hit the lighted surface thirty or forty yards from the edge, and perhaps twice as far from me. I could see easily. She touched, as expected, and sank in as expected. There was no swirl of silt, though -- no sign of the slowmotion splash you normally see when something lands in the ooze. Instead, the bow section disappeared almost completely into the smooth surface while a circular itpple grew around it and spread laway from the point of impact. Then the wreckage eased gently back up until it was half uncovered, then back down again, still in slow motion. It osdllaited tftiait wiay tihree or four itknes before coming to rest, and eacih rebound sent another ripple spreading out from the spot for a dozen yards or so. By the time that stopped, so had my tank. I felt it hit something hard -- rock, for a bet, and I'd have won. Then it began to roll very, Very gently toward the light. I couldn't see the surface I was on at all clearly, but it seemed evident that it was a sohd slope which would deliver me beside the Pugnose in two or three minutes if I didn't do something about it. Fortunately, there was something I could do. The tank had what we'd come to call legs, six-foot#ong telescoping rods of metal which could be extended by springs and retracted again by solenoids. I was still hoping not to have to use magnets, but it seemed that the legs were in order; I propped out four of them in what I hoped were reasonable directions. Enough of the guesses were right to stop the roliinig, and for the first time I had a steady observing platform. NaturaMy, I concentrated on the area I could see. I was now below the level of the lights themselves. They appeared to 'be strung on lines at intervals of about twenty yards, with the same spacing between lines. That was a guess, though, since I couldn't actually see any supports. Their regularity bolstered the guess, though the fact that the wreckhad come down just about on a line between two of the lights without appearing to disturb them counted rather against it. I wasn't too stuprised to see nothing growing or moving on the flat surface they illuminated, though of course I wouldn't have been surprised to see a few tracks or holes scattered around. At least, I wouldn't have been surprised at them if I'd not seen the Pugnoses landing. With that to go by, it was perfectly clear that whatever I was looking at was not sea bottom. It was more like a rubber sheet stretched like a tent roof over everything more than about ten feet down slope from me. The wreck had dented it but hadn't punotured it, and the stuff was strong enough to hold up the comparatively small submerged weight of metal plastic. This, I reflected, could be useful. I had no idea why whoever was under the tent wanted to light up the outside,but unless the fabric were completely opaque they could hardly help seeing the shadow and the dent in their ceiling. That should bring people to investigate, and they would be easy to see without my having to use lights of my own and giving myself away. All I needed was one clear view of unauthorized human beings at the bottom of the Pacific; that, plus the scale of energy wastage I could already detail, would be all my report would need -- a major control expedition would do the rest. No one expected me to arrest a group large enough to set up an instaMation like this, and I had no ambition that way either. To put it mildly, the tank wasn't maneuverable enough to serve as a police oar; I W;as in no position to arrest a passing shrimp. All I asked was a good look at a work sub, or a suit of pressure armor, or even a handling robot under remote control -- anything that would show that this setup was being actively managed -- one good look, and I'd be ready to drop ballast. I wouldn't do it too hastily, of course, for two good reasons. A sonarman might reasonably dismiss a sinking object as a piece of a wrecked ship, or even a dead whale, and not be too curious; but he would be most unlikely to feel the same indifference toward something rising. I'd have to take some time to evaluate the sonar danger. It was nice, but not conclusive, that there had been no sign of it so far. The other reason against haste I didn't know about yet, and didn't learn for a number of hours. I 'm not a clock-watcher. I knew I had plenty of survival time in the tank and wasn't keeping very close track of how much of it had passed. When the second reason did show up it never occurred to me to check the time, and for several hours after that I was very thoroughly distracted from such things as clocks. I can't say, therefore, just how long I spent sitting in the tank waiting for something to happen. I can guarantee that it was a number of hours; long enough to get me bored, cramped, irritated and more than half convinced that there was no one under that tent roof anywhere nearby. The idea that it might be someone who didn't care a hoot about fragments of ship in his ceiling seemed too far out to be worth considering; if anyone had seen it, he'd have done something about it. No one had done anything about it. Therefore, no one was within sight. And if no one was within sight under the fabric, I might as well take a closer look at it myself. Maybe I could even get a look under it. Dangerous thinking, boy. Don't let all those wasted kilowatts go to your head. You're just a detached eyeball; if you don't get back with information, anything you do manage to do is pure waste -- and waste, of course, is the profane word around the Board. It was a temptation, though. No motion -- no sign of human life except the lights and the tent roof itself, and mighty little sign of any other kind of life. No sound. Nothing from the sonar frequency monitor. Why shouldn't I roll gently down to the edge of the fabric and study it more closely? The best answer to that question, of course, was that it would be the act of a dithering idiot. As time went on, though, it occurred to me once or twice that merely being here at all wasn't the highest possible display of human intelligence. If I must act like a fool, I might as well be a real one. I don't know where that sort of thinking comes from; maybe I should see that psychiatrist. I'm not sure just how close I came to giving in. I know I almost pulled in the legs three times and each time thought better of it. IF The first time I was stopped by something moving, which turned out to be a fair-sized shark. It was the first large living thing I'd seen since readiing bottom, and it set my thoughts off on another tangent for started to move the tank I was stopped by the memory of the shark; it had disappeared -- had it heard something I couldn't, that had frightened it off? I had no instruments outside for low or audible frequency detection, just" the sonar receptors. I know all this isn't making me sound much like a genius, or even a reasonably competent operator. I wish I'd had more time to edit my memories a bit before having to tell this story. If I'm to justify the decision I'm trying to sell, I should have some chance to look like a sensible adult first. Ail I can put in for my own defense at the moment is one of those let's-see-you-do-better remarks. Are you sure just how your own thoughts would have gone if you were practically helpless in a sht-foot plastic bubble a mile under the ocean? If you're not, please suspend your critcism until I'm done. T ie second reason for not dumping ballast too hastily finally did show up. My attention was still pretty well focused on the wreckage, so I didn't see it coming. My first glimpse was from the comer of my eye, and I thought for an instant h was another shark; then I realized it was human, and I had my evidence. Fine. Once it's out of sight I can head for the surface. Not a chance. What I needed was convincing evidence, and if my own eyes weren't convincing me it was unlikely that my words would convince anyone else. What I saw was a person, which was all right in itself; a suit of four-inch polyphase armor, adequately powered in the limbs, will hold back the ton and a quarter or so per square inch that sea water exerts a mile down. Such armor will even let the wearer look rather like a human being and move about in a very clumsy walk. It will not, however, unless he is immersed in an ocean of mercury, let him swim; and this clearly human figure was swimming. It came into view some distance to my left, appearing in the light rather suddenly as though it had come down from the darkness above. It was swimming toward me and the wreck, not in any obvious hurry. As it approached, details became plainer; and the plainest of all -- plainer even than the fact that it was female -- was that she wasn't wearing armor. She was wearing a cold-water coverall type scuba suit, absoluitely ordinary except that it had a spherical, itransparent helmet instead of a breathing mask, and the ballast seemed to be in rings here and there around body and limbs instead of being fastened to the belt. I repeat -- in fact, I had to repeat it to myself several times -- that the garment was not pressure armor. Its wearer's swimming motions showed plainly that it was nearly as flexible as ordinary skin, just as a scuba suit should be. She didn't seem to see my tank. wMdi was some relief. She didn't even seem to see the wreok until she was wsthm twenty yards of it She had been swimming very slowly along the edge of the tent roof wiiith no more apparent purpose than someone out for an afternoon stroll, up to that point. Then she changed course and headed straight for the bow of Pugnose. That didn't fit. Anyone down here should have been looking for that wreck, not running across it by accident. I'd been expecting a working party sent out by the people under that cover. Well, there's more than one thing I haven't been expecting about this business. Stop with the working hypotheses, brother, you haven't enough data even for tot yet. Just watch (I don't even address myself by name). So I watched. I watched her swim around the shattered bow, and into it and out again, and over it. Then I watched her unlimiber an object which turned out to be a light, which bad been dipped to her suit belt, and swim inside once more. That woiried me a little; the camouifilage for the tank had not been designed for that sort of inspection. Its clamps, its launching springs -- She came out again, with no more visible signs of excitement than before, and at that point something else dawned on me. It was a very minor point compared with what I had. already seen -- at least, it seemed minor when I first noticed it; as I thought, it became more and more a major puzzle. Her scuba suit was, as I said, quite ordinary except for helmet and ballast. Its ordinariness included a small tank between the shoulders, whose upper end just touched the helmet and was presumably connected with it, though I could see no piping. All this was reasonable. The jarring note was that there were no bubbles. N ow, I'm familiar with rebreather systems, and I know about chemical supplies -- mixtures of alfcaM metal peroxides and superoxides which react with water to give free oxygen and pick up carbon dioxide. I know them well enough to know that they must have, besides the chemical container and mixer systems, a sort of "lung" -- a variable-vol'ume, ambientnpressure gas bag or tank -- with the supply chemicals between it and the user's own lungs. The exhaled gas has to go somewhere until it's ready to be inhaled again. That "lung" must have a volume great enough to take aU the air a swimmer can exhale at one breath -- in other words it must have as much volume, or nearly as much, as his own inflated lungs. There was no such bag visible on this swimming outfit, and the back tank was not nearly ilarge enough to have contained one. It seemed, therefore, tot the unit did not involve a chemical oxygen supply; and unless some sort of microscopic pump was taking the gas as fast as she exhaled and squeezing it back into another part of that httle tank at fantastically high pressure, there should be exhalant bubbles. I couldn't see any u IF reason for such a recovery system, but I couldn't see any bubbles either. I had already been bothered about what gas mixture she could be breathing -- at this pressure, half of one per cent oxygen would have burn her lungs out, and there was nothing I knew of which could be used to dilute it. Even helium was soluble enough down here to make decompression a job of many hours. It crossed my mind for a moment that people might be living permanently under this pressure, breathing a nearlypure helium atmosphere with a fraction of a per cent oxygen in it; but if that were the story, I still couldn't see why that girl's suit didn't give out bubbles. Granted there might be every economic reason to recover helium, there are engineering problems which I still don't think could be completely solved. No. All hypotheses inadequate. Keep on observing. Facts so far are only that she seems to be living and moving normally in a closed system at outside pressure, and that the pressure in question -- skipping the old superstition about flattening a human body -- is quite high enough to mess up any biophysical or biochemical processes involving gas dynamics. There wasn't much more to ob serve, though. The girl clipped the kt back on her belt, took a last glance at the wreckage and began swimming away from it. She didn't go back the way she had come, but continued on to my right, slanting away 'from the lighted region. In a few seconds she had disappeared, though I knew she couldn't be very far away yet. I t seemed likely that she was oiff to get help in moving the wreck off the tent roof. How long before she would be back with it was anyone's guess. There might be a tent entrance a few hundred yards away, or there might not be one for several miles. The former seemed a trifle more likely, but I wasn't going to risk money on the question. Just my future. She might have noticed the gear that had held and launched my tank; she wouldn't have had to be much of an actress to hide an expression of suspicion under the circumstances. If she had noticed and reported it, those who came with her were going to be very curious about the whole area. The outside of the tank was deliberately a little irregular in outline so that it wouldn't be too obviously artificial, but it was not going to fool anyone who took a really good look at it. Maybe it would be better if I moved a little farther away. I wasn't concerned with personal safety; I could always get away, but I wanted to see as much as possible before that became necessary. So I told myself. Moving would be a slow process; traveling ability was not really a design feature of the tank. There were two dozen of the legs, and I had enough stored power to retract them against their springs several thousand times (that had taken argument), but I had not been bom a sea urchin. I had had a 'httle practo let me juggHe into a better observing position, not to keep out of ilbe way of seardhers. If I were foimd, my only real recourse would be to drop ballast and start for the surface. That was a once-only operation, and I didn't want to resort to it before I really had to. There was stUl some hope, I figured, of deciding what was going on down here in some detail. Maybe it's courage, or maybe just natural optimism. in T began working the legs, hoping Xlhat no infittiruments in the neigjibpdhood were reoordang the D.C. pulses as I turned the retraction solenoids on and off. I had found during practice that I could climb a slope of five or six degrees if the bottom were hard enough to give the "feet" any resistance, but that near the limit of steepness the going tended to be tricky. If I overbailanced and started downhill again it took very fast work with just the right legs to stop the roll. The sphere had a respectable moment of inertia. Because of its outer irregularity, some positions were naituiUally more stable than others, and some were mudi less. Just now I was wishing that I bad spent more time in practice, though I consoled myself with the thought that the boss wouldn't have authorized the energy expenditure anyway. I had worked my way between thirty and forty yards farther up the slope, with only one mistake that cost me any real distance, when the party I expected showed up. It wasn't a large one -- four in all. One could have been, and probably was, the giil I had seen before; the other three seemed to be men, though it was hard to tell at this greater distance. One of the new ones was towing a piece of equipment about three feet long, cylindrical in shape, and a little more than a foot in diameter. It had a slight negative buoyancy, which was understandable -- they'd make sure that nothing which got loose would find its way to the sunface. They swam over to the wreck, and two of them began pulling lengths of hne from the cylinder. They attaCihed these to convenient parts of Pugnose, while the third man pulled from ithe other end of the cylinder something that looked like a heavy bundle of netting with a collapsi balloon inside ift. When the other lines were made fast he manipulaited something on the cylinder, and the balloon began to infiaite slowly. The wreckage didn't have much submerged weight, and it wasn long before the balloon had it hoisted dear of the roof. Then all four of them got on the far side and began pushing it, swim fins fluttering violently. It took them several minutes to get it away from the smooth area and out of the light. I supposed this was all they'd bother to do, but I was wrong. With the tent roof out of danger they moved airound and began pushing the load in the direction the girl went after finding it. IP This might be a nuisiance. Maybe tbey just wanted it for a souvenir, but maybe they wanted to make a really dose examination under better conditions -- better light, or maybe even out of water. Whichever of these might be true, as long as they were interested someone was likely to notice the tank attachments. I'd have been much happier if they'd simply pushed the bow section off their roof and forgotten it. Now I bad no excuse for not following to learn more about them. Come to think of it, I should try to locate the entrance, or one of the entrances, to the place anyway. They weren't swimniing fast, but they went a lot faster than I could roU the tank. Once again I wished that some real provision for moving the thing had been made, but the argument had been that the closer the whole rig got to being a submarine, the harder it was going to be to camouflage. I hadn't bought the argument completely at the time, and I would have been even more delighted at a chance to reopen it now. All I could do, though, was hope the chance would come later on, and in the meantime wait until the swimmers got their burden a reasonable distance away and then start rolling in the same direction. P erhaps I haven't made clear quite all the nuisances involved in rolling the tank. The principle ought to be plain enough; it was simply a matter of letting the appropriate spring push out a leg against the bottom, on the side I wanted to go away from. It may not have crossed your mind that thii general method of getting around meant that living equipment, oontrol panels, and other fixed gear were sometimes to one side of me, sometimes to another, and sometimes above or below. There were times when it was very hard to keep from sitting onall the leg-oontrol buttons at once, for example. As I've said, the legs were meant more for position and attitude fine control, and to keep the tank from rolling on a slope, than for genuine travel. The need for the latter had not been foreseen, or at least hadn't been considered very great, by the authorities. At least, concentrating on working the machine along the bottom kept my mind from the worries I'd felt on the way down. It was actually more likely now that I'd come under unfriendly observation, but at least I wasn't brooding over it. The swimmers had vanished in the distance, nothing else could be seen moving in the lighted area to my left, and nothing at all could be seen the other way. The bottom under the tank couldn't be made out in detail, and in a way I was groping along -- though the verb isn't exactly right, since it implies that you can feel what's ahead of you. I couldn't feel anything; I could only note whether my vehicle rolled a little way, a longer way, or not atall whenever another leg was extended. When it didn't roll at all I had to guess which other legs to try. It would have been a lot easier if I had dared to use enough light of my own to get a decent sight of the cx:ean on top bottom, but I wasn't tbat silly. If the local (population anduided swimmers, I didn't tiave a prayer of knowing when any of ithem were around; when this mess had started we were thinikiing of subs and sonar. These I was ready to spot The slope wias not very regular, as I quickly found. Twice I rolled forward out of control for several yards when I reached a small dip. #nce I thought I was stuck for good -- I couldn't go forward, back or what was presumably downhill toward the light. As a last resort I tried uphill and found that it wasn't litphill at aU; I rolled out of control again into a hohow where I couldn't see the lighted area except as a vague, diffused glow over the ridge I'd just crossed. Getting out of that hollow used a lot of time and an irritating amount of stored power. I couldn't even relieve my feelings with language. The coupling from air through plastic to water, and from water through helmets to gas and human ears, may be pretty bad, but it isn't zero; and the soundtransmitting properties of cold water make up for a lot of matching deficiencies. I didn't dare say a word. Once out of that devil#nvented guHy I stopped, once more in full sight of the tent roof and tried to take stock. My power was rather low. There was no way of teiQiLng whether I migibt reach the entrance in three hundred yards or three thousand; the former seemed more Mkely, since the . girl hadn't taken too long to come back with her help, but then she might have met the men already outside. Nothing was certain enough to give any possible line of action even the dignity of a calculated risk. It wasn't possible to calculate. I had to find out more, though. I'd cooled down a little from my original reaction -- I could believe what I'd seen, and I realized that others would, too -- but the nows I had wasn't as heilpf ul as it was supposed to be to the Board. If a police unit were to do anything but grope around, it should know where to start. A regular entrance would make a logical place. Of course it wasn't likely that the tent roof would really keep a suib out; but judging by ie area the tent enclos, the chances of brealdnig through at a strategioally useful point would be rather slim. Maybe the best thing to do would be to throw out the caution policy and turn on my lights. The extra power would be offset by more efficient travel when I could see where I was going and I should stand a better chance of reaching the entrance before my juice failed entirely and automatically let my ballast go. If I were seen, no doubt some of the swimmers would come close enough to give me a really good look, so I might get a better idea of their high-pressure technique before I left. I 'm a cautious man by nature, and thought that one over for quite a while before I bought it. There was plenty against it, of course. Just because all I'd seen was swimmers rather than subs didn't prove there IF weren't any subs. If there were, there would be an excellenit ohance that I could never get hack to the surface -- but I'd accepted that risk before starting the trip. I pinig-ponged the matter for several minutes. Then I took a good, deep breath on the theory that I might not get many more and turned on one of my spots. It made a difference, all right. The bottom was mostly rock, as I'd suspected, and was very rough -- no wonder I'd had trouble using my legs effectively. Able to watch wihat I was doing, I resumed travel and, as I'd hoped, made much better speed with much less power drain. It wasn't exactly easy yet; I was still rolling, and had to change lights as well as legs now as I rolled, but the improvement was encouraging. I could also see more motion around me. There was a lot of small life -- shrimps and their relatives -- that I hadn't been able to spot before. They got out of my way without being too distracting. There were also plantlike growths, though considering how far they were from the nearest natural light it seemed likely that they were sponges or something of that sort. They neither helped nor hampered the rolling, as far as I could tell. However, I was paying for the much better short-range vision with a much worse view of distant objects. I might have been siirprised quite easily by a group of swimmers, but what actually happened was less predictable. I lost orientation. Not in the compass-direction sense and not completely. I could still see the lighted area to my left, though not as well as before; my compass still worked, when it happened to be right side up; but my sense of up and down, depending more on my view of a few square yards of ocean bottom than on my semicircular canals, was fooled when some of the bottom ceased to be horizontal. The change must have been gradual, or I'd have spotted it within the small area I could see well. As it was, I overlooked it completely; suddenly I was on on area of rock sloping much more steeply than any I had traversed up to then. Before I knew it the tank had started a stately roll to the left; after I knew it, leg afiter leg poked out in that general direction proved useless. It wasn't like rolling downhill in a 'barrel; it was a slow and graceful motion. I could easily have stayed upright inside the tank if I'd chosen to concentrate on that problem instead of on ithe controls. For all the use I got out of the latter, I might as well have concentrated on comfort. Some of the legs may have slowed me a little, but none of them came close to putting a stop to the journey. I rolled helplessly into the lighted region and out onto the tent foibric. For several long seconds my report-smoking attention was divided almost equally between up and down. Above me I could see the 'lights clearly for the first time. They were ordinary high-pressure, excited-vapor lamps, bigger than I'd ever seen used for general illumination, but otherwise nothing strange. I still couldn't see what held them in position, since looking up at them was hard on the eyes. Looking down was harder on the imagination, though mine was getting a bit calloused. I already knew that the fabric was remarkably strong and elastic; I'd seen how it reacted to Pugnose's bow, which must have had some pretty sharp corners here and there. I also knew that it was opaque, or at best translucent, in its normal state. I realized that the part now under my tank would be stretched. But it hadn't occurred to me that stretching the stuff would make it transparent. IV W hen I stopped moving, however, I could see ordinary sea lKttom -- rock similar to the stuff I had been rolling across under me. For a moment I thought something must have stopped me short of the tent roof after all, but glances through several of the ports killed that notion. I was nearly fifty yards out on the thing, sunk into it for just about half the diameter of the tank. From ports above that level I could see the lights above and the smooth fabric below; from the lower windows I could make out rock and occasional patches of sht on the bottom and a greenish-hite, evenly glowing oeilinig above -- evidently the fabric, lighted from the other side. It was translucent, then; but ilhe part of it stretched around the lower half of the tank offered no interference at all to vision. Some of the legs were extended on this side, and the stuff seemed to have spread in an invisibly thin film over these as well -- they could hardly have punctured it or I wouldn't have been hanging on the roof. Someone must have done some very fancy work in molecular architecture, I decided -- which shows how a wildly wrong set of premises can at times give rise to a correct conclusion. But why the tent at all? The sea bottom under it looked no different from that above. There was no sign of any human being or artificial structure in the region below. There weren't even any living beings that I could see, and I certainly looked hard -- it occurred to me for a moment that someone might have gone so far with the energy-wasting business as to try growing natural foods with artificial light. The idea at least went along with indifference to ordinary morality about energy; people who'd shine all those kilowatts into the ocean probablywouldn't boggle at overreaching their fair share of area in order to grow mustard or something like that. The sea bottom was about the only place on Barth where such a trick could be pulled without being caught right away by indignant neighbors, to say nothing of the Board. The only trouble with the theory, other than one's natural reluctance to believe in such people, was that I couldn't see anything growing. For that matter, I didn't know what sort of food plant could be grown under sea water. There were some, no doubt; and if there weren't natural ones, there is always gene tailoring. IF A more immediate question was what to do next. Thirty seconds of trying proved that I could extend and retract my legs until the power cells ran down without moving the tank at all. They just didn't have anything to push against; the bottom was a little too far down. I tried rolling the thing by shifting my weight. This worked as far as turning the tank over was concerned, but didn't get me noticeably closer to "shore." It seemed that the only freedom of motion I had left was upward. This was a little annoying. I had planned to plant a small sonar transponder near the entrance when I found it, as a guide for the police boats. If I dropped it here, it would mean very little and furthermore would be seen lying on the tent fabric by the first person who happened to pass, either above or below. If I'd had the reaction time and foresight of a fictional hero I might have let one go when I realized I was out of control; but I hadn't, and there was no use moaning about it. I might wait until they found the tank and just hope for a chance to drop the instrument without anyone's noticing while they were carting me off, but that seemed to involve a historical record for optimism. I couldn't accept the idea of going back to the surface without leaving it, though, even though that and all the other things it would be so nice to get done seemed to be impossible. Even a snake on a tray of oiled ball bearings keeps wriggling. And so I remained. There was really no point in an early departure anyway. I still had plenty of oxygen, and there was always the hope that I'd get a useful idea before they -- whoever "they" were -- found me. The hope lasted for nearly six hours. I t wasn't a girl this time, though it might possibly have been one ' of the same men. He wore the same sort of swimming outfit to the last detail, as far as I could see. He was swimming straight toward me when I first saw him , above the tent roof as the others had been, slanting out of the darkness from the direction I supposed the entrance must lie. Certnly he had seen me, or rather the tank. I wished I had spotted him earlier -- it would be interesting, and might even be useful, to know whether I had been found accidentally by a passing swimmer or by someone deliberately checking the region where the wrecked boat had been found. However, I could be philosophical about not knowing. I watched as he swam overhead. He should be able to recognize the tank without much trouble. It had a lot of nonstandard equipment fastened outside, but it was basically a regular emergency high-pressure escape tank of the sort you'd find in any large submarine -- a sphere of silica fiber and high-stress polymer able to stand the pressure of two miles of sea water. It was light enough to float, ordinarily, but the jury-rigged thing I was in was well ballasted. Besides the legs and their accessory gear there were the lights, the transponders, sundry pieces of sensing equipment and several slabs of lead so distributed as to keep the center of buoyancy and the geometrical center as close together as practical. The lead made the real difference; I would stiU float with all the rest. The swimmer stopped stroking as he glided overhead and drifted, settling slowly toward me. I could see his face now through the helmet -- in fact, the helmet itself was barely noticeable; he might almost have been swimming bareheaded. He was no one I could remember ever having seen before in five years of Board work, but I took good note of the line of his black hair, the set of his eyes, and the squarish outline of the rest of his face so as to be sure of knowing him again if the chance ever came up. Presumably he couldn"t see me; the view ports were small, my inside lights were out, and he showed no sign of the surprise I would have expected him to feel if he knew or guessed that the tank contained a living man. He came close enough to touch the equipment -- so close that I could no longer see everything he was doing. I told myself that it couldn't be anything very drastic, considering what the tank was built to take, but I'd still have been much happier if I could have seen his hands all the time. He was certainly fooling with things; I could feel the casing quiver occasionally as he pushed something particularly hard. He drew away again and swam twice more all around the tank, never taking his eyes from it Iheq he settled down to the tent roof and pushed his head against it, as though he were trying to swim through. I didn't dare shift my weight quickly enough to look though one of the lower ports while he was still in that position, so I couldn't tell whether his helmet stretched the fabric enough to let him see through -- it was, after all, a lot smaller than my tank. I did let myself down very gingerly, so as not to move my container noticeably, but by the time my eyes had reached one of the lower ports he had risen again -- at least, I could see nothing against the fabric except his shadow. He seemed to have started swimming away and I took a chance and straightened up quickly. The shadow had told the truth. He was heading back in the direction from which he had come. T his time I was much more careful with the clock. He was back with another man in just under eight minutes. His companion was carrying either the cylinder that had been used in moving the wreck, or one just like it; the first man was also carrying something, but I couldn't make out what it was right away. It looked like a rather untidy bundle of rope. When he stopped above the tank and shook it out, however, it turned out to be a cargo net, which he began to work around the tank. Apparently he had decided on his first inspection that the natural irregularities of his find didn't offer much hold to a lope. I oouLdn't exactly blame ham for that oondixsion, but I very much wished he hadn't reached it. I wasn't sure how strong the net might be, but unless it were grossly defective in manufacture it would hold my ballast slugs. If it were fastened around tank and slugs both, releasing the latter would become a pointless gesture. It was definitely time to go, and I reached for the master ballast release. Then I had another thought. Dropping the lead would presumably give my presence away, assuming they hadn't already guessed there was someone inside. That cat was out of the bag, and nothing else I could do would tell them any more. I might as well, therefore, try somethinig else which might keep that net from enfolding me until I was over bare rock again and stood a chance of dropping the transponder effectively. There seemed nothing to lose by it, so I extended all the legs at once. Neither of the swimmers was actually hit, but they were very startled. The one with the net had been touching the tank at the time, and may have thought that something he hod done was responsible for reicasing the springs. At any rate, neither of them seemed to feel that any more haste than before was need, os they should have done if they'd suspected a man was inside. They simply went about the job of attaching the lifting device as they had to the other wreck; there were plenty of things to fasten lines to now that the legs were out, and it would have been hard or impossible (to get the net around the new configuration. That was all to the good. The technique was the same as before. I assumed the cylinder contained a chemical gas generator, considering the pressure the balloon was expanding against. That was jxist a fleeting thought, though. It was much more interesting to watch the two swimmers pushing me toward the edge of the roof even before my container had lifted entirely clear of the fabric. Things were certainly looking up; only two people, bare rock coming up -- no, don't be too hasty; maybe they'll push you right to that entrance you want to find. Wait it out, boy. I pulled my fingers away from the panel, and locked them together for extra safety. J ust as bad been done with Pugnose, the tank was moved away from the tent and then along parallel with its edge. The motion was slow -- even with a weightless load there was plenty of water to push out of the way -- and we were more than fifteen minutes on the trip. I kept watching for some sign of the entrance, expecting a break of some sort in the fabric itself, but that wasn't the arrangement I fLnaJly saw. After a quarter of an hour my porters aimed away from the lights again and headed up the slope which I assumed was still to our dght. About two hundred yards in this new direction brought us to the lip of another bowl or golly, apparently much like the one I had almost ib; been trapped in a few hours before, but larger. The center of this depression was even more brightly lighted than the roof of the tent, and the entrance was in the very middle of the brit region. I didn't take a very good look at it; I acted too fast. I glimpsed what seemed to be a smooth-walled pit about forty feet across with ladders going down at a couple of dozen points around its rim. Most of the light came from some point in the pit below my line of vision. Between me and the opening were a dozen or more swimming figures, and it was the sight of these that made me act. If I were to be surrounded by a whole school of swimmers, my chances of dropping a transponder unnoticed would be negligible; and without spending any more time in thought, I dropped the ballast and one of the sounders simultaneously. I instantly realized that might be a mistsjte, since each of the lead slabs was heavy enough even under water to smash the instrument, and as I felt the tank lurch upward I dropped another of the little machines. There was a good chance that my company had been distracted by the ballast -- a much better one than I realized, as I found later. I heard the lead hit the rock. So, evidently, did the swinuners around the hole. It took them a few seconds to spot the source of the racket. A man judges sound direction partly from the difference in arrival time of the wave at his two ears; and with the high speed of sound in water, the fact that the disturbance was also being carried by the rock, and the helmets lihcy were all wearing it was impossible for lihem to get more than a vague notion of where the sound had originated. When they did start coming my way it was in response to a flashlight which one of my carriers was shining toward them. T he two original swimmers were hanging onto my legs -- the tank's, I should say. They couldn't hold me down, of course. It takes more than a couple of almost-floating human bodies to replace several tons of lead. They were staying with me, though, and guiding the others. That didn't worry me at first, since there weren't enough people in sight to hold me down, and if there had been they couldn't all have found room to get hold. The only real cause for anxiety was the possibility that there might be work subs with outside handling equipment somewhere around. Even from these, though. I'd be fairly safe if they'd just put off their appearance for a few more minutes. They'd have to hunt me with sonar once I was out of sight, and I was beginning to feel pretty certain that the last thing this bunch would do was send out sonar waves. The darned things travel too far and can be recognized too easily. I still didn't know what these folks were up to, but there was enough obviously illegal about it to suggest that secrecy would be high on their policy list. The ones who were holding on to me would have to drop off soon. There isn't an underwater breathing hree feet a secand or so for more han a 'few himdred feet without uuning into decomKresslon trouble. didn't care what gas mixture these characters were breathing; there are aws of physics and human bodies lave to obey them. The. more distant swimmers were aiming back as this thought crossed ny mind; I could see them against he fading background of the lighted pit. I could also see, poorly, the ight which one of my hitch-hikers jvas shining toward them. He seem to have some hope still; maybe there was a sub in the neighborhood, and he was trying to stick with me long enough to guide it. Unless it showed up very soon, though, he was going to lose that gamble and kill himself in the bargain. I saw another swimmer, quite close, dwindling between me and the light; my second passenger must have dropped off. When would the first go? His light was still shining, but it could hardly do any good now. I could barely see the pit, and surely no one down there could see his little flash. Evidently he realized this, for after a few more seconds it went out. I expected to see him leave like his fellow, since he could do no more good by sticking, but he wasn't thinking along those lines. He had very different ideas, and one of them from his viewpoint was a very good one. I didn't like it so much. The dual-phase stuff they make pressure tanks out of isn't a metal, and differs widely from any metal in its elastic properties; but like metals, if you hit it it makes a nose. I didn't know what my rider started hitting with, but it most certainly made a noise. I, from inside, can vouch for that. A nice, steady, oncea-second tapping resounded from the tank, hurting my ears and doing worse to my plans. He didn't' need his light; any work sub could home in on that noise from miles away if it had even a decent minimum of instrumentation. And there was no way that I could i thinic of to stop him. V I could try the legs, of course. I did. It was so dark by now, with the light from entrance pit and tent roof alike faded to the barest glimmer, that he may not even have known that I did anything. If he'd been holding on by a leg he may have been disconcerted when I pulled it in and maybe bruised when I popped it out again, but there was no evidence that anything of the sort happened. I ran the legs through their cycle several times without making the slightest change in the rhythm of that tajyping. I tried shifting my weight to make the tank roll over. It worked, but didn't bother my passenger. Why should it? A swimmer doesn't care whether he's right side up or not, and a submarine hitch#iiker in total darkness should care even less. I was the only one who was bothered. But why was this character alive, conscious and active? We'd risen more than a thousand feet now, through a pressure difference that IF should have popped his suit if it were really sealed as tightly as I had judged. If it weren't, and if he were valving off gas to keep his lung volume down, he was going to be in trouble when he descended again; end in any case, volume or no volume troubles, whether he was breathing helium or anything else, he should by now be completely helpless with embolisms. The simple sad fact, independent of what should be, was that he was still going strong, and I had no way of getting rid of him. Nothing like this had been foreseen by the Board geniuses who had worked out this mission. There was not the slightest doubt that some sort of sub was going to be along shortly to pick me up -- no other notion was sane, in view of the fact that this fellow had been fit to stick with me. There were always insane notions to consider, of course; maybe he had decided to sacrifice his life to make sure I didn't get back to the surface, but even that assumed the coming of something. Maybe a torpedo, but something. Personally I doubted the sacrifice idea. Lots of people will, for a cause they consider important enough, but I've never met a lawbreaker who acted that way. Especially I've never seen an energy waster who would; selfishness is the key word with those lads -- keep the eye out for Number One. But never mind the psychology; what's to be done? The guy may be a moving corpse, but he's still there broadcasting. Why didn't I come down in a work sub? Skip that question; it's a waste of good thinking time. How can I make him get off, or at least stop making noise? Badly phrased question. I catft make him do anything. He's outside, and I'm inside, and with this pressure difference never the twain shall meet. Then, how can I persuade him to leave or shut up? Until I start communicating, I can't persuade him either. Obvious. I put on my lights, both inside and out. That at least caught the fellow's attention; the tapping stopped for a moment. Then it resumed, but less regularly, and I caught glimpses of him as he worked his way to a place which would let him see through one of the ports. I pulled my own face far enough back from it so that he could see me clearly, and for a few seconds we just looked at each other. The tapping stopped again. I t was the same man who had found the tank. I'm not a mind reader, but I felt pretty sure from his expression that he had only just realized there was anyone inside and that the discovery bothered as well as surprised him. He resumed his banging on the tank, in a much more irregular pattern. After a few seconds I realized that he must be sending some sort of code, though I couldn't read it. I tried to explain by gestures that the radcet was hurting my ears, but all he did was shrug. If he cared at all about my comfort, it certainly wasn't at the top of his priority list. He finished his code message at last and resumed the regular tapping. He didn't seem angry -- didn't scowl, or sihake a t at me, or anyttihing of ithat sort, but be iidn't look as though be considered me a longlost friend, editber. I could see his face dearly and without distortion througih the helmet, but I could see no sign of reial Interest in his expression. I sipent some time trying to get him to respond to my gestures, but he paid no attention. I thought of writing a note that he could read through the port, though I couldn't guess what languages he might know, and I managed to find some scraps of paper in one of my pockets; but I could find nothing to write with, and that idea collapsed. I finally gave up and turned my lights off again. There was no use in helping him guide the sub to us. I couldn't thinlc of any more practical plans, and my mind wandered back to the question of how the fellow lived. We had risen several huadred more feet during the time the lights were on, and his suit hadn't emitted a single bubble. I was beginning to wonder whether it really was an ambient-pressure unit. It was hard to see how anything so thin, and especially so flexible, oouild possibly be pressure armor; on the other hand, the peculiarilties of the tent roof indicated that someone had 'been making progress in molecular architecture. I was in no position to say such armor was impossible, but I wished I could make at least a vague guess as to how it was done. I can feel a little silly about it now, of course. I'd had Ihe man in full sight, well Ughited, only a few feet away from me for fully five minuties, and I missed the key fact -- not in something I saw but in something I didn't see. At least, I'm not alone in my folly. The tapping kept up. It wasn't really loud enough to be painful, but it was annoying, Chinese water torture style. It may have been equally so to the fellow outside who was doing it, and I got a little consolation out of the thought that at least he was having to work at it. I got a httie more out of the realization that as long as he did keep it up the help he was calling hadn't arrived yet. Two thousand feet was less than balfwiay to the surface, though it was an unbelievable pressure change for my hitch-hiker. It wasn't very much comfort to me to know that I'd put that much water under me; even twice as much wouldn't be much help. It wasn't os though there'd be a police squadron standLag by to pick me op, or even a single boat. The tank had Qhly the normal automatic trani#pfilers for stait to function until I relhed the surface -- which I was unlikely to do. There probably was a Board vessel within a few miles, since the plan didn't indude my niavi'gaitiing the opened halves of the tank to Easter Island when I got back to the surface, but that would do me no immediate good. The storm would probably still be going on, and they wouldn't be able to see me at fifty yards. If they did, they probably couldn't do anything about it unless there were more specialized salvage IF gear aboard than seemed likely. Even a minior ocean storm is quiite a disturbance, and one doesn't pick a ipressiure tank bobbing around on its waves casually out of tihe water. T here was an encouraging side to that thought, though. If I did get to the surface, it would also be hard for any sub to get hold of the tank. My broadcaster would then be working, and maybe -- just maybe -- if it even brought a Board ship into the general neighborhood the pursuers would keep out of sight. On the other hand, it was at least equally likely that they would consider it worth every effort to get hold of me, witnesses or no witnesses, in view of what I had obviously seen down below. But the other hope was worth holding onto for its comfort value. Since I'm a civilized human ibedng, I never thought until later of the possibility that if they couldn't capture me they miight just punch a hole in the tank and let me sink. Maybe I'd make it. The minutes were passing. It was taking each one a year to do it, but they were passing. Each brought me nearly two hundred feet closer to those storm waves, if they were still there. I hadn't bother to check the forecast beyond the time I was scheduled to submerge, and I'd been down quite a few hours. I'm not immune to sea-sickness by any means, but I rather hoped there would still be enough vave action to give me a good dose of it this time. Maybe it would even make my friend just outside lose his grip on whatever he was holding onto. That was something else to hope for. But first I'd have to get up to those waves, and there was still half a mile to go. The tapping went on. If I'd been an#rwhere else on Earth I might have preferred the Chinese water drops by then, but 'this was no place to be asking for water drops. I tried to shut out the sound and keep my attention on other things, like the pressure gauge -- was there a little wiggle in its needle which might be due to wave action far above? -- or the question of food. If the waves were there, maybe I'd better put off eating. I kept moving rom one port to another in a hectic but raither useless effort to spot the sub which must be approaching; ibut it was my passenger who saw it first. VI I knew what had happened when the regular tapping suddenly changed once more to the complex code, but it took me another half minute to spot the approaching light. I didn't have a very wide angle of view from any one of the jxiits. All I could see at first was the light, a solitary spark on a spacedark background, but there could be no doubt what it was. It vas just a little below us, well to one side. Its bearing changed as it grew brighter. Apparently it was approaching on a spiral course, holding the sound of the tapping at a constant angle off its bow to let the pikt keep a constant idea of his distance from the source. Even when it was close I had trouble making it out, for its main spotlight was turned straight on the tank and there was too little ddfifused radiance to show anything dose to it. This apparently bothered my passenger, too, for there was another burst of code tapping as the sub halted thirty yards away, and the light went out. In its place a dozen smaller beams illuminated the whole area, none of them shining directly our way; so I could see the newcomer fairly well. It was not exactly like any sub I'd seen before, but was similar enough to some of them to give my eyes a handle. It was small, either one or two men, not built for speed, and well equipped with manipulation gear on the outside -- regular arm and hand extensions, grapples, bits, probes and what looked like a water-jet digger. One of my hopes died quickly; there had been a chance that a small sub would not have enough negative buoyancy to drag the tank back down, but this fellow had big, fat lift chambers and must have ballast to match. It was evidently a tug, among other things. If it could get hold of me, it could puM me down, all right; and it was hard to see how it could be kept from getting that hold. All I had to fend it off were the legs. I wasn't sure how effective these could be, but I kept my fingers at the panel resolved not to miss anything that looked like a good chance. At least, now that some sort of action was in the offing, I wasn't dithering as I had been during the minutes before the sub came in sight. The pilot's first method was to drift above me and settle down. He must have had a strong streak of showoff in him, since it was hard to imagine a less efficient means of sinking a round object. I thought he'd have his troubles, but my passenger didn't seem upset, and I have to admit the ohoter knew his boat handling. The swimmer waved him into position, putting me under the sub's center of buoyancy, and he made contact. My pressure gauge promptly showed that the upward motion had been reversed. I waited a few seconds in the hope that my hitch--hiker would go inside the sub, but he made no motion to, and I finally had to let him see my technique. This was simple enough -- simpler than idling along the sea bottom, since the surface above me was much smoother. Also, I didn't have to go so far to accomplish something; a very small shift away from his center of gravity gave niy tank's lift a torque that was too much either for his reaction time or his control jets. Since he had enough weight in his tanks to overcome my own lift, he flipped over, and I was on my way up again. Unfortunately, as I promptly learned, Lester the Limpet was still with me. His tapping started up within seconds of the time I got out from under. His friend evidently took a while to get his machine back into trim -- I could understand that; tumbling, with a couple of tons of surplus negative buoyancy thrown in, is a problem for any sub -- but he was back all too soon. He IF was no longer in a mood to sihow off; he bored straight in, with a grapple extended. I turned on my outside lights, partly to make things harder for him and partly so that I could see better myself. This was going to be tricky for both of us; he had to find something the mechanical hand could grip, and I had to shift my own body weight so as to turn the tank enough to bring a leg into line for what I had in mind. It was just as well I'd gotten my recent practice on the bottom. At least I knew to a hair where each leg went out, relative to the positions of the ports. I took him by surprise the first time. He hadn't considered all the possibilities of those legs -- maybe be didn't even know how many I could use, though they were visible enough from the outside. He matched my upward drift very nicely, though I was able to hamper him a little bit by shifting my weight and changing the frontal presentation of the slightly irregular tank. With relative vertical motion practically zero, he came in slowly with the mechanical hand reaching for some projection or other -- I couldn't teU what he had in mind. I rolled just a little to get a leg in line with the grapple, and when the latter was about two feet fiom contact I snapped the leg out. The ring was strong. Remember, it was built to prop the tank in position on a slope even when the ballast was still attached. The engineers who built it could tell you bow many pounds of shove it gave. I can't, but I could feel it. The sub and tank were pushed neaidy away from each other. The line of thrust was not exactlythrough the ceater of my shell, and I got quite a bit of spin out of it. The sub didn't. Either the push was better centered on him or he was quicker this time with his control jets. He was a stubborn character. He came back and tried the same thing again, after my spin had stopped. I was able to repeat, with about the same results. Konrad the Ohitom was still with me, though, and he had my technique figured out by this time. He moved a little away from me to free his hands for signalling, waved them for about ten seconds in a complicated pattern that meant nothing to me, and then came back and took hold of the tank once more. The sub made another approach, similar to precedingtwo, and I tried to line up for another kick. My friend, however, had different ideas. He was much farther from the center than I was, and could exert much more torque. He could also see where the legs were, and when I shifted my weight to line up the proper one with the approaching grapple he interfered. He was too smart to fiight me direotly, though he probably could have managed it; instead, he let me get moving and then supplied an extra shove with me or to one side so that I either overshot or missed the right position. I made three attempts to lineup as the hand was coming in and finally gave the kick a little out of line whenthe sub was about to make contact. The leg grazed the side of CDough to push os apart. Woise, it gave the sub operator a dhanoe to grab the leg itself. This he seemed to feel was a better 'hold whatever he had planned on; he clamped on tilghtly and began to cut buoyancy once more. T his proved to be a mistake, though it didn't help me as much as it might have. The leg wasn't strong enough to hold the tank down. It parted, and once more the sub disappeared below me. I cut my lights promptly, hoping that my passenger had lost his hold with the jeai. Maybe he did, but if so he wasn't far enough away to lose track of me. In a few seconds the tapping resumed, and in a few more the lights of the sub were close enough to make my blackout an idle gesture. I turned mine back on again so that I could see to resume the sparring match. Now he got the idea of making his approach toward the spot where the leg had been lost, so that I'd have to turn further to bring another into line. My swimming friend was cooperating nobly, and for a little while I was afraid they had me. The sub operator was too smart to try for a leg again, but he managed to keep out of the way of several kicks I gave out. He got in, made what should have been a succesful grab at something on my outer surface, but was hurried and missed. He had to back up for another try... and I had time to get another idea into operation. I knew where the swimmer was. I could see oiotigh of him to tell not only that but to guess which way he'd be pushing next time. I began to put a spin on the tank with him at one pole so that he wouldn't notice it quite so quickly. This worked, though I didn't get a really rapid rotation -- I couldn't, of course, with such poor torque; but with the tank's weight I had enough for what I wanted. One of my strong points in basic physics, ages ago in school, was mechanics. I couldn't handle the present problem quantitaitively because I didn't know either my angular speed or the tank's moment of inertia, but I hit the qualitative answer on the button. As the grapple approached again I shifted my weight to start the tank processing. Billy Barnacle tried his usual stunt of pushing me sideways and seat the leg right through the point I wanted. Either he'd forgotten what they'd taught him aibout gyroscopes or he was gettmg tired. I hit the grapple dead center with my kick, and we were apart again. If I'd been driving that sub, I'd have been getting tired of the whole business by now. Apparently he was more patient than I. He was back again all too soon. I had gained maybe three or four hundred feet with each pass of our duel. I had an uneasy feeling that I was going to run out of tricks before those increments added up to the total distance to the suice. Certainly if he had the patfeboe to keep repeating the same technique, he'd soon run me dry. IF He didn't, though. He seemed to have decided that the graipple wasn't quite the right tool after all. When he came back next time He did his usual speed-matching some distance above me, instead of level. A small light flickered, apparently in code, and my pressureroof friend let go of the tank and swam up to the sub. He was back in a moment, trailing a line behind him. Apparently it had been decided that human hands were more versatile than mechanical ones. A t first I wasn't worried. There was nothing on the outside of the tank except the legs which would really lend itself to the attachment of a rope, and it had already been demonstrated that the legs weren't strong enough. Hours before, on the bottom -- no, come to think of it, it was much less than one hour -- my pal had felt the need of a cargo net to wrap around the sphere. If he didn't have such a net here, all should be well. He did, unfortunately. It was bigger and heavier than the one they had had on the bottom, which was probably why he wasn't swimming with it. When he got back just above the tank he began hauling on his line, and the net emerged from one of the sub's service ports. He pulled it to him and began to spread it out so that my tank would float up into it. He failed the first time through no doing of mine; he simply didn't get his net deployed in time. I ran into it while it was still only partly open. It had more of its weight on one side of me than on the other, so I automatically rolled out from under it and kept on rising. I didn't have to move a finger. The sub was also rising, of course, so the net trailed downward to the end of its line and folded itself together. The boy in the sub had to reel in mechanically while the swimmer held on to me, before they could go through it all again. That was another few hundred feet gained. The next time they spread the net much farther above me. Once open it was even less maneuverable than the tank, and by a little judicious rolling to make the outer irregularities affect my direction of ascent I managed to get far enough flom its center to roll out the same way as before. What that team needed was two more swimmers, I decided. It turned out that One more was enough. They reeled in the net again, lifted the sub a distance, adjusted its buoyancy so that it rose a little more slowly than I did, and then the operator came out to join the swimmer. Each took a corner of the net and with the boat for the third comer formed a wide triangle which they were able to keep centered over me. I tried to work toward the sub, which seemed to be unoccupied and wouldn't . back up to keep the net spread. It didn't work. The men moved just a little in the same direction, letting the net sag toward me. The next thing I knew it was draped around me, and I couldn't lell which way to roll even if I had mers came in from their corners and began tying it together at the bottom. If they finished, I was done. I watched them as well as I could, trying to spot where there was an edge -- anything to tell me that there was more weight of net on one side of me than the other. I spotted what I thought was a chance to interrupt the work while I got a better look, and I'm afraid I took it. One of the men was next to the tank and a little below it, pulling a section of net closer. Maybe it was the sub operator -- the light was good, but I didn't take time to check -- and he wasn't as familiar with the leg arrangement as his companion. Anyway, he was in the way of one of them, and I let him have it. M y intention, if I had one -- I really didn't take time to thiTik -- was to knock him out of the way so I'd have a Chance to roll out of the net. I certainly didn't mean to do him serious or permanent damage. The disk at the end of the leg, though, caught him on the right side and could hardly have helped breaking some ribs. It kicked him away like a shark butted by a dolphin. The iine he was holding practically flew out of his right ha, and a tool whose nature I couldn't make out fell from his left. He began to sank out of sight. The other swimmer was onto him before he'd left the reach of the Uts. He was evidently out cold; his body was completely limp as his friend towed him up towd the sub. I didn't watch too closely, partly because I was tryonig to roll myself out of the net and partly because I regretted what I'd done. I made little progress with the rolling. They'd gotten some knots into the system already, and it looked as though I were ere to stay. I managed to make a half turn, getting what had been the tank's bottom when I was caught swung up to the top, but it didn't do me a bit of good. The meshes wound around the tank even more tightly during the turn. I was a little above the sub by that time -- as I said, they'd ta'immed it to rise a little more slowly than the tank -- and the tension on the line connecting the net with the boat was swinging me directly over the latter. It was also tipping the sub, I noticed, since the line wasn't attached anywhere near the latter's center of gravity. I watched, helpless but hopeful, to see whether the single rope was strong enough to drag me down when they really put weight on the boat. I didn't find out. The uninjured man towed his companiion to the little vessel, opened its main hatch, and after some trouble got him inside. Up to that point we'd still been rising. Now it appeared that the sub was putting on more weight, for the line tightened and my pressure gauge reversed its direction once more. However, the sub, which had leveled off after the men got on board, now went down badly by the stem. Evidently the off-center lift through IF the net line was more than could be countered by shunting ballast, at least if enough total weight was in the tanks to maintain a descent Apparently there was a higher priority attached to bringing me back than to keeping the boat level. I watched, with my fingers crossed, hoping the line would give. It didn't, but someone's patience did. Maybe the swimmer I had hit was seriously injured, though I hoped not; but w'hatever the cause, whoever was now running the sub decided that speed was of prime importance. He suddenly cast off rope, net, and all, and disappeared in a few seconds. I was alone at last, bound once more for the surface. It was almost an anticlimax. It was also quite a letdown. The dogfight, if you could call it that, had lasted only ten or fifteen minutes in all and certainly hadn't involved me in much physical labor, but I felt as though I'd just done ten rounds with someone a couple of classes above my weight. Now I was safe. There wasn't a prayer of their finding me again without sonar, with no one hanging outside to broadcast sound waves from my own hull, and with my lights out -- I hastily turned them out as that thought crossed my mind, I had less than two thousand feet to go -- not much over ten minutes, unless the drag of the net and line made too much difference. I watched the gauges for a while and decided that they didn't, and for the first time since I'd left the surface I feU asleep. VU I was awakened by bekng tossed around; the stoiim was still on. More specifically, I was awakened by being cracked on the head by a corner of the control panel. It wasn't hard enough to damage either the panel or my skull, but it was uncomfortable. So was the whole situation. Riding up and down on fifteen-foot waves is bad enough in a stable boat, but in a nearly spherical container which has practically no preference for a definite up and down it is infiniiteLy worse. I"ve been in free fail in space, which is no joke, but I'll take it again any time fore being a human volleyball in the middle of even a modestsized Pacific storm. That was one thing they hadn't bothered too much about when they designed the submarine escape shells. The idea was to get to the surface rather than to be comfortable afterward. All I could do was turn on the rescue broadcaster and try to keep my stomach in place. I couldn't even be sure anyone was receiving it -- the broadcast, I mean. It was a good bet that they were, since my return was certainly expected. But several good bets had failed to pay off already. I couldn't even sleep. Fortunately I'd had enough sense not to eat when the idea had occurred a while back, so I couldn't do what my stomach wanted most to do just then. I couldn't do anything. The whole situation was as bad physically as the original descent had been mentally. But there's no point trying to make it any clearer; I might succeed. I did wish I'd taken the trouble to find out how long the storm was due to last. Then I might have gotten some comfort from an occasional glance at the clock. As things were, I quickly found that it was better not to look at it; the time since the last look was always so much less than I'd guessed. As it turned out, I should have watched some of the other instruments, though their reading would have been no comfort either -- and there would have been nothing to do about them. I would never have believed that the end of that motion could have been anything but a relief. If anyone had told me that it would make me feel worse, I'd have used violence on him for fear he might convince me. Unfortunately, he'd have been perfectly right. The end came much too suddenly. The first motion to stop was the roMing. The tank stUl bobbed up and down, but seemed to have acquired a definite top and bottom. Then the vertical oscillation also decreased, and finally stopped. By that time there was nothing more the pressure gauge could tell me, but I looked at it anyway. I was right. The tank was going down again. T here was one thing I didn't have to worry about; it wasn't a case of ordinary sinking. The only hollow space which gave the tank its buoyancy was the one I was in, and if that had been leaking I'd have known it already. No, I was being pulled down; and granting that there are such things as giant squids, I didn't for an instant think that one of them was responsible. The sonar monitor was dark now, but maybe it hadn't been for the last hour or so -- I wouldn't have known. There was only one reasonable explanation. I looked down, not knowing what I really hoped to see and didn't see very much; the sub wasn't bothering witib lights. I turned dn my own, but could see only the single line, taut now, leading from the net which was now thoroughly tangled around me to a vague bulk just on the edge of visibility. The Hne, it may be remarked, was quite strong enough for what it had to do; we were descending much faster than my original ballast had carried me down. If the owners of that rope were prepared to trust it under such stress, I saw no point in doubting their judgment. I didn't even bother to hope it would break. I calculated that I'd be on the bottom in twenty minutes or so, and let it go at that. At least, I could eat now. I began to absorb a dextrose pill with such calmness as I could collect. There was nothing else to do; they had me. We were still several hundred feet from the bottom when company showed up. Two more subs, brightly lighted, hove into view. They were work machines similar to the one I'd had trouble with a few hours before. If they were in communication with the one which had me in tow, it was by means of something none of my instruments could pick up. They probably were, sinoe their maneuvers were perfectly coordinated. First one and then the other newcomer swung close beside me, and each used its "hands" to hang several hooked slugs of metal into my net. These weights took nearly all the stress off the tow rope and removed any hope there might have been of its breaking at the last moment. Then a swimmer slipped out of each boat and took station beside me, saving themselves work by holding onto the net too. I flicked my lights on for a moment, but couldn't recognize either face. I began to wonder about the fellow I'd hit and what his friends might think about it if I'd hurt him really seriously. The human mind sometimes goes off on funny side tracks; I never once, while I was being towed, thought about their reaction to my having discovered their obviously secret installation. If I had, I'd probably have told myself that if they really wanted to do anything final any of their subs could have cracked the tank with no trouble at all. Eventually the bottom came into view in the range of my own lights. It wasn't luminous this time. I thought at first that they must have turned their lights off; then I realized that the storm must have carried me some distance, and there was no reason to expect to be very near the tent. This was ordinary sea bottom complete with crab burrows; I could tell, because after reaching it the sub reeled in most of the tow line and left me only about twenty feet up. This gave me a good look at the boat itself, too, and I could see that it wasn't my former antagonist. For one thing, it was about twice as big. It wasn't very different in general design, though. There was still plenty of equipment on the outside -- more, if anything. It was meant for work, not travel. Even without the drag of my tank it wouldn't have made very good speed over the bottom, but I could see that we were moving. I had no doubt we were heading either for the entrance I'd seen earlier or for some other one and kept looking ahead for its lights. A s it turned out, we reached a different one. We were a couple of hours getting there, though that's an academic point since I didn't know where we'd started from anyway. This pit was smaller than the other, and the lighted tent roof was nowhere in sight when we reached it. This entrance was only about twenty-five feet across, much too small for the sub that was towing me and borderline for the other two. It was perfectly cylindrical, with vertical sides, and opened from the bottom of a shallow bowl just as the other had. It was very well lighted, so I had no trouble making out details. There were many ladders around the rim. At first they led down out of sight, but as I came closer I found I could see the bottom ends of those on the farther side of the opening. The pit was apparently a IF hole in the roof of a chamber something like forty feet deep. There were several more swimmers in and above the hole who seemed to be waiting for us. As we approached, they paddled out rather casually and gathered around the tank as the sub that was towing me settled to the bottom just beside the entrance. My tank drifted upward and slightly forward until the tow rope was vertical. One of the swimmers waved a signal, and an escort sub swung back in and hung another slug of ballast onto my net. That took the rest of the tension off the rope, and I began ito sink. The swimmer signaled again, and the tow line came free of the big sub. Several men grabbed it; the rest took hold of the net, and they all began to work me toward the pit as I settled. This seemed to be the last lap. Unless they had the stupidity to leave me right under their hole in the roof, which would be too much to expect even in twentiethcentury realistic literature, the most remote chance of my getting back without their consent and assistance would vanish once I was inside that entryway. I was nearly frantic. Don't ask me why I fdt so scared at one time and so calm and steady at another; I can't tell you. It's just the way I am, and if you don't ilike it you don't have to live with it, at least. I don't know what I did or thought in those few minutes, and I'd probably not want to tell anyone if I did remember. The fact was that there was nothing whatever I could do. I had all the power of a goldfish in' his bowl, and" that sometimes upsets a man -- iwho, after all, is used to saving at least a little control over his environment. I was a little more calm as I reached the edge of the pit; I don't know the reason for that, either, but at least I can report the incident. There was a pause as we reached the tops of the ladders, and the subs and swimmers 'both clustered around and began hanging more ballast onto my net, adding insult to injury. The swimmers also picked up what looked liked tool belts from hooks near the ladder tops and buckled them around their waists, though I couldn't see why they should have more need of these inside than out. At least, I couldn't see any reason at first; then it occurred to me that tools might 'be useful in opening up my tank. I decided not to think of that just yet. From inside, the pit looked even more like a hole in a ceiling. The chamber below was much larger than I had realized, fully a hundred feet on each side. The entrance was simply a black circle above me, and as I watched it ceased to 'be above me. The swimmers were pushing me toward one of the wal'ls. I ithought for a moment that rolling across the ceiling would at least be easier than the same action on the sea bottom, but dismissed the point as irrelevant and academic. My morale was rising, but was still pretty low. At least, I was still alive, and in a way I'd done some of my job. I'd dropped the transponder near one entrance, and there seemed a decent chance that it hadn't been found. My pick-me-up broadcast had been going for several hours at the surface, and the chance that it had been received was excellent. The Board would know I'd done something, and would certainly be moved to check up on what had become of me. If they swept the bottom with highresolution sonar they could hardly miss the smooth surface of the tent, even if the transponders didn't work. In fact, considering how big the tent seemed to be, it was rather surprising that ordinary depth-meter records hadn't picked it up some tirne or other. I should have given more thought to that point, though it would have sent my morale downhill again. As it was, I could believe that this installation would be found fairly soon, even if I myself wasn't. The big room had little detail to mention. I assumed at first that it would turn out to be a pressure lock or the vestibule to one, but the big tunnel opening from it had no door. There were smaller panels on the walls which might have been locks -- some of them were big enough to admit a human figure. The swimmers towed me toward the tunnel mouth and into it. It was fully twenty feet in diameter, much more than large enough for the tank, and was Mghted almost as well as the chamber we had just left. I found myself getting angry again at this bunch who were being so free with their energy. I was also beginning to wonder where they got so much of it. I'd run into power#)#tleggers before in the course of business, naturally, but never an outfit with so much of it to throw around. We went only a few yards -- twenty or so -- down the tunnel before coming to another large room which opened from it. They towed me into this. It had several much smaller tunnels -- maybe I should say shafts -- opening from its floor; I counted eight in my first glance. None of these openings had lids or doors either. Apparently a large part of the installation was flooded and under outside pressure. Maybe it was a mine; that would account for the energy, if the product were uranium or thorium, and it would not be practical to try to keep all the windings and tunnels of a submarine mine free of water. I had just about time to run that thought through my mind while the swimmers were putting me and my tank down on the floor. It started to roll a little, and I put out three legs to prop it. Luckily all three got through the meshes of the net which was still around me without being jammed. With that settled, I looked at the bunch of people around me to see what they'd do next. It was clearly up to them. I'm used to it now, but I still don't like the memory of what they did and what it did to me. They took off their helmets. A mile under the sea, in pressure that would crush sponges metal into foil, they took off their helmets. IF IF  Short Story She seemed very like a woman -- but there was something inhuman about her os well! J oe found much of the Sentient city quaint, even charming, but it was not like home. It was an ancient, sophisticated city on an ancient planet, and yet it did not display the material comforts that Terra had attained after a meager fifty thousand years out of the Stone Age. He walked through the shattered fobbled streets in full gear, outfitted in the smart dark dress blues of the invading forces, looking for women and entertainment. It was not easy to find. Determined to make this a modd Occupation, the commanding geneaial had worked out a limited schedule of available services and had set up severe rationing standards. Only three drinks of the potent ragacsi were permitted daily. And at most one woman a day. Meals and food packages were also strictly regulated by item and quantity. Rationing control was handled by the Central Terran Computer. Payment had to be in advance. Small input scan devices were, located all over the city which only accepted dogtags and recorded serial numbers plus the nature of the transaction. Joe sighed. He had been scouring the shops for souvenirs to send home and he had already used up his quota of driiaks for the day. But he still had a woman coming. The Sentients were behaving with scrupulous propriety. They had been badly beaten, but they hadn't relinquisihed their basic dignity. As reparations for their prolonged and costly resistance, they had been forced to give up tremendous quantities of treasure and goods. Hence everyone was living on a substandard basis. But there was almost no black marketeering. There was very little prostitution, too. Traditionally the Sentients used android women for this purpose, amazingly lifelike figures designed for erotic pleasures, good enough to pass muster with the most exacting of men. But most of the Terran soldiers, like Joe, considered this practice emasculating, a sign of the degeneraition of the Sentient culture, and avoided the android women like the plague. Only a handful of the men, weak in moral fiber and controls, joking to cover their inn shame, had defiled themselves in this way. Fortunately there were a few real women around, whose circumstances were so straitened that they had gone to the streets to earn Terran credits. But only a few. Joe had waited now for fifty-three days. And the torment was growing stronger with each day. H e stepped into one of the very neat candy-pink social clubs maintained by the Sentients for the Terran soldiers. There were four women seated quietly about the room -- all of them android, he was certain. They were uncannily like the Sentient women in appearance. None were pretty by Terran standards. Their noses were too broad, their eyes set very wide apart, the skin an almost alabaster white. But they were extraordinarily sensuous creatures. He stared at each one in turn, tempted but not quite enough. He took great pride in maintaining his own self-respect, in holding on to his masculinity. He advanced to the bar and asked the Sentient bartender for a ragacsL "Your dogtag, please," said the bartender. Joe slipped the metal disk into the scanner and waited stoically for the intermittent red flash to appear. It did and the bartender sigh "I'm sorry, sir. You've reach your quota for the day. But TU be happy to serve you tomorrow." "The hell with it," snapped Joe. "I didn't want the goddam drink anyway." He stepped angrily into the street and looked along the narrow lane. There was no one in view. High above, two young Sentient women had been leaning out of an oval picture window but when they caught his glance they both withdrew and closed the outer blinds. He was terribly depressed. "I'm hungry," he thought, "but it isn't sex done. I want intimate contact with another human being." He stopped off at a curio shop and chatted politely with the proprietor. He even priced several expensive items although he knew he didn't have sufficient credits left to pay for them. The Sentient dealer was courteous, but no more. Joe tried to hint obliquely at how lonely he was, but the Sentient didn't seem to grasp his meaning. They parted on correct but distant terms. IF And then he saw her. She wasn't even as pretty as theandroid women he had seen, but she was alive. He was certain of that. She had her head averted and was looking wistfully into a shop window. He came up just behind her and looked over her shoulder. She was eyeing a lavishly packaged food assortment. "It looks mighty tempting, doesn't it?" he said softly. She turned to look at him, but said nothing. On sudden impulse, he went into the store and used up his food allowance on the package. When he came out into the street he handed it to the Sentient woman. "I cannot take this from you," she said. "No strings," said Joe and when he saw the look of puzzlement on her face, he rephrased his words. "I want nothing in return," he said. She looked at him warily for a moment and then reached out for the package. He was elated because she had accepted it. "Where do you live?" he said. "You wish to come home with me?" "Only to talk. Nothing more." She shrugged and took his hand in hers, the warmth of her fingers coming almost as a shock to him. Together they wove through the maze of darkening streets, dimly lit by the orange glow of the setting Star above. There were tangles of debris everywhere since much of the destruction had not yet been cleared away by the Sentient population. He pretended not to see it. When they arrived outside her home, she asked him to wait while she went within. She returned in a few moments. "I can't ask you in," she said quietly. "My parents will not permit it. But since I have accepted your gift, I feel I owe you something." "You don't owe me a thing," he said vigorously. "No, no," she insisted. "I will go to your home with you, now." His home? He had no home on this planet. He was quartered with an elderly Sentient couple in a small bedroom with a private side entrance. He told her this, and she shrugged her indifference. But he wanted more than gratitude. T hey walked to one of the few parks that had not been shattered by the invasion. It was on a hill of several hundred feet that overlooked a river winding below like a metallic ribbon. He talked hesitantly about his parents, and when she looked at him sympathetically, he fished a frayed picture out of his wallet to show to her. She smiled and remarked about the resemblance. He asked her about herself, her family, but she wouldn't answer. "I see only destruction about m," she said, and she pointed a slender finger toward the heaps of rubble that lay at the foot of the hill. Then she leaned toward him, and for the first time that evening, she ran her fingers gently over his cheek. His blood began to race at the implications of her caress. "Do you like me?" he said earnestly. 'Really like me?" "I do," she said seemingly in eamnest. Although it wias terribly expensive, he hailed one of the few helibuses thiait hovered over the raviagjed city. He had the pilot place them down a few blocks before his d ti nation so that he might stop to purchase a corsage. He pinned the exotic flowers, despite her mild objections, to the shoulder of her brightly colored blouse. They entered noiselessly through the side door and quickly undressed. Afterwiard, he caressed her hair and spoke to her of intimate things, of his home, his loneliness, his conitrition for the wanton destruction of her city, of his gpaltitude to her. She smiled at him as she reached out for her purse. She bpened it and took out one of the ; small scanning devices issued  the Occupying Forces. He felt icy fingers close about his heart. "What are you doing?" he cried. "Reporting the transaction to your Computer," she said, the word your heavily accented. "I should have recorded it in advance." "But this wasn't just a transaction," he said. 'It was one human being showing friendship to another." She laughed outright. "Me?" she said. "Human?" He sat bolt upright in the bed. "What do you mean?" he said. "You even have parents! You said so." 'Parents was just a euphemism for my owners," she said. "I always give iem Teiran food packages." He went to the closet and gathered up her clothes. "Get the hell out of here," he said. She dressed before him with exaggerated slowness, moving her body seductively in a caricature of sensuality. She curtsied grandly before she left, a grotesque mockery, he knew, of his Terran values. S he walked through the streets in a leisurely manner until she reached one of the city's communication centers. There she called her home, collect. Her mother's face came alive on the visiscreen. It was without emotion. "I did it," she told her mother. "He is humiliated and unnerved. I made him something less than a man." "It was a courageous and patriotic thing to do," said her mother. "And yet I wish the glory were being garnered by someone else's daughter." Her mother's face faded from the screen like a wraith of smoke. And then, after straightening die hem of her skirt and discarding ithe corsage, the girl walked out into the street looking for another Terran soldier.      IF IF  Feature Our Man In Fandom travels # miles to the Fantipodes! P eople who read this column every month probably get the idea that science-Ection fandom exists only in America. Well, tlhat's dead wmong. I know I tend to talk about American fans almost without exception, (but that's only becajuse I'm more closely connected to it than to the many foreign fandoms. Actually, people all over the wodd read science fiction, and a goodly numlber of them are fantype people. Perhaps it would be a good idea if I did a little talking about them, for a change. Fans Down Under Let's begin with Australia, the place the kangaroos and the duckbilled platypusses come from. I am beginning this Fandom-'Round-#heWorld thing with Aussie-land for the very good reason that the Sixth Continent is a veritable hotbed of fanactivity these days and seems to be crawling with avid science-fiction readers, collectors and fans of all descriptions. This is a fairly recent phenomenon, although there have been fans in Australia for as long as there has been science fio tion. But things went into the doldrums about #, for some reason. The guy who touched off the current renaissance in Aussie fandom is named John Foyster. He organized and conduct the Seventh Australian SF Convention in the dty of Melbourne around Easter of #. As you can tell from the Convention's official title, there have been over the years six other such cons. But the Melbourne affair was the first in about eight years, and it served to pull scattered fans together, bring new people into contact, and spark activity in general. John Foyster left for England early this year, and perhaps he can whip things into action there, too. The Australian Science Fiction Review It was a combination of curious accidents that brought the current state of Australian fan-activity to my notice. The first thing that happened was that Pat Terry, an elderly Australian fan, very fond of Andre Norton, was mov to write to me because of a brief study I wrote of Miss Norton's books that appeared in some of the Ace paperback reprints of her novels. We began exchanging letters, and among other things he sent me two copies of a lively fan magazine called Australian Science Fiction Review, fiction writer James Blish sent me yet another copy. He received an extra of the current issue and, for want of a better idea, passed it along to me. Thus besieged with copies of the compass (including yet another sund, sent to me direct), I kinda had to read the thing. I found it lively, controversial and stimulating. The editor points out, in issue ##, consequence of this Convention. And, since just about all the fans regularly, it has served to draw them together and help them get organized. magazine by any means. The people who do the reviews are not of the persuasion that science fiction is either Serious Thought-Provoking Social Criticism or Scientific Prophecy (you know what I mean, the "Shape of Technologies to Come" sort of idea). They have the idea that SF is entertainment, to be read for fun. And they criticize on that basis. They tend a little towards the chop-it-up-in-little-pieces brand of reviewing and don't spare the egos of the authors concerned. Oh, it's lively stuff -- and the authors have been howling, as in the current isand Jim Blish registers a polite of his recent novel, The Hour Before Earthrise. The Melbourne Science Fiction Club It would seem that Melbourne (which is not the capital of Australia) is certainly the SF center of the continent. Besides serving as the site of the Convention, and fanclub of considerable activity. One of these activities -- and one that I wish American fanclubs would adopt! -- is holding regular screenings of science-fiction movies for club members. The Melbourne group is now trying to get copies of such movies as Fantastic Voyage, George Pal's Seven Faces of Doctor Lao and Truffaut's version of the Ray Bradbury yarn, Fahrenheit #, for next year's season. As you might imagine, such films bring a rare turnout of sf fans. The Melbourne group also have another feature that the American clubs universally lack: a library. In fact, Mervyn Binns (who writes up a monthly report on club doings for most comprehensive collections in Australia." They've been adding to the collection, which already inIF eludes books, paperbacks and close to one thousand sf magazines, at the astounding rate of more than # books over a period of eight or nine months. Members, of course, have reading privileges... and, presumably, iborrowing privileges. This is a great way for impecunious fans to catch up on their current reading, and I wish American clubs would adopt that notion too. Celebrities, Even! Nor is Australian fandom entirely made up of fans alone, as you might suppose. Plenty of professional science people make Australia their home. The late Dr. Paul Linebarger, for example, lived there for a nunober of years. If that name doesn't ring any ibells with you, his famous penHoame was "Coidwainer Smith." If you've iread many of his stories, you'll probably remember the planet "Norstrilia" -- which was a contraction for "Old North Australia" and is an indication of his affection for the country. Then ithere is A. Bertram Chandler, author of all those "Rim world" stories, such as his recent If serial. The Road to the Rim. Bertram Chandler is, or was, a ship's officer in the maritime service and makes his home in New South Wales. He has letters and brief articles scatthat I have seen and seems to be a local celebrity. And a crop of new young writers is rising Down Under. Such as Jack Wodhams, an expatriate Englishman; Ron Smith, an expatriate American and Australia's own John Baxter, a home-grown local boy. There is utterly no doubt that John Baxter is an authentic Australian: he once had a pet bunyip, and that's as Australian as you can get! Baxter's novel. The God Killers, is reprinted over here by Ace Books under the title of The Off-Worlders. I am intimately familiar with this particular novel, ibecause it's half of an Ace "Double" and the novel on the other side is a Lin Carter effort called The Star Magicians. I just slip this in casually. Booming professional writers all over the Australian landscape is something comparatively new, and must contribute quite a bit to the excitement of the sf renaissance now in the works down there in the Antipodes. Here in New York where I live, sf writerg, editors and cover artists are a part of the local scenery and hardly get noticed any more. (I recall the Saturday evening my wife and I were coming out of a theatre on Times Square and bumped into Randall Garrett, James Blish and Sam Moskowitz, all in the space of about # minutes.) The New York fan clubs are pretty blase about it all... so many professionals drop around to the club meetings that their "celebrity" value has all but rubbed off by now... but it's rather new to the Australian fans, and I suppose it's pretty diverting. I thought I wouldn't be able to cover the other fan movements in Italy, Germany, Scandinavia and elsewhere all in this one article, and I see I was right. So more about the foreign groups next month. IF  Novelette The Silkies were Earth's only defense against a foe who had already defeated them once! I W hen the Silkie call for help came, Nat Cemp, tiimself a Silkie, was exploring ithe planet which had been given the astronomical designation Minus #-#... the #th planet farther away than Earth from the new, mighty sun, of which Earth had become one small, green, planetary part, reveloving at an angle of #  in relation to Earth's orbit. It was a temporary nomenolature. No one took the attitude that Earth was the most important planet of the new system. Not, apparently, that it was going to matter. On the three planets that had been assigned to Cemp -- #, # and now # -- there were no detectable inhabitants. He had been skimming for nearly half a day among the strange, slender buildiinigs which reared Mke stretched laodwork itowaid ithe siky. And already it was sadly obvious ithait here, also, the transition period had been ifcoo long for life to survive. Perhaps only Earth and the few others already discovered had been able to make the changeover. The call for help came as Cemp was (floating through a vast generator building complex. Clear and sharp and urgent, he picked it up from the mechanical relay system between # and #. It said, "AM Silkies and government agencies: I have just received a (Silkie word) message from Lan Jedd." The special Silkie "word" was a thought-form that was used to describe an after-death Silkie communication phenomenon. As a Silkie descended into death, there was a threshold point at which an isolated neural bundle was activated. The bundle was a telepathic sender; and it, quite simply, transmitted ithe final living thoughts, perceptions and feelings of a SMkie who, at thetime the message was sent, was already dead. T he name of the dead SMkie, .thus relayed, shocked Cemp. For Lan Jedd and he had been os much Mends as any two SMkies ever were, or rather ever were allowed to be. Human beings and particularly the Special People -- humans iwho could communicate tdepathicaMy with Silkies -- had always diswuraged Silkie-with-Silkie associations. Lan and he had chosen to explore adjoining sets of planets at this remote end of the system in order to have relatively unmonitored discussions about the increasing severity of the SMkie-human problem. So for Cemp, as the message reached him, the shocking thrillthought came: except for the sender, he himself was the nearest "help.' He responded at once with: "Nat Cemp coming immediately. Who are you?" "Ou-Dan! Calling from #-#." The identification of the sender was disturbing. It was a name of the type and style common to meteorite Silkies, whosei existence had ibeen unknown until less than a year ago. The presence of such "original" Silkies in tibiq vastly larger sun system was an unknown, unresolved factor... which Cemp and Lan Jedd had also talked about in great detail. Startling to consider that, perhaps, Ou-Dan had "listened in" to their discussion. But what especiaMy disturbed Cemp was that he had no confidence in the fighting abilities of these newly arrived SMkies. It meant that for many hours he would be virtually ajone against a mysterious, powerful enemy who had already proved himself strong enough to kMl a SMkie. As he had these awarenesses, Cemp was projeotinig himsdf out of the buMding he was in. Moments later he was rising out of the atmosphere by means of his Silkie method of gravitation reversal. Literally, .the planet expeMed his IF body which, in his C-Silkie form, was almost bullet-shaped and ten feet long. In this form it was a body that was fully able to operate and live in the vacuum of space. Once away from the planet, Cemp maintained his expulsion momentum and moved through space by cutting off gravity from all objects in space except in the direction he wanted to go. Thus the outer planets drew him, and he "fell" with ever increasing speed toward his destination, a special "ship." In spite of his initial acceleration, it was the usual slow journey of a Silkie traveling by himself through space. And so it was several anxious hours later before at last he saw the ship in the dark space ahead. T he ship was a defensive vessel that had been built as part of a crash program after the disaster of Earth becoming part of the new sun system. Built without walls, utilizing weapons as modern as what Cemp had learned from the Glis, it and others like it were part of the safety measures set up in conjunction with exploring so many new and unknown planets. As soon as he was securely in control of the ship, Cemp started it toward Ou-Dan, a distance of only four planets. Which was no problem at all to the fast ship. Once under way, Cemp allowed its relay sender to activate again. Thus he tuned into oommunications which were already in progress from more remote points: Silkies speculating telepathically about what had happened. What a powerful life-form that particular planet which Lan Jedd had been exploring must have, if one or even several of them could kill a fully grown Silkie like Lan. That was the general thought. From all over the system converging Silkies readied for a mass battle with a dangerous opponent. Unfortunately, it would be quite a while before these more distant helpers arrived on the scene. For at least an earth day, Ou-Dan and he would be the only living beings on or near the scene of the crime. Arriving at ship speed, Cemp learned that the dead Silkie body had been taken by Ou-Dan over to a meteorite, which circled #-#. The strange bright-dark of space with its black "sky" and the huge, faraway sun glaring with a thousand rock and metal facet of the meteorite -- that was the backdrop. In such a vast frame, ithe shattered Silkie body seemed like an atom in infinity. It lay sprawled on a flat spread of rock. In death it bore an even vaguer resemblance to a human being than in life. There Wias a sort of leg separation at the rear, and up front was a caricature of a human face. No indication of how the destruction had been done. Ou-Dan commented telepathicly that the body looked collapsed. But it was not much smaller than normal: eight inches at most. As Cemp gazed silently down at his dead friend, he thought: Tbe worst possible had happened. A highly trained adult Silkie, with ail tihait implied in aleritnieiss and laibility to istilize poweitM defensive and offensive energies, bad been oonfronted by another beong. And ithe Silkiie bad been defeated and killed. O u-Dan, looking a little like an elongated meteorite ihiimseiLf, telepathed: "Lan bad just reported to me that there were no inbabiitants surviving on #, #I and #, and I, working backwards, bad found the same stuiaition on #, # and #, wben his after-death message came." Cemp thought: A dead Silkie, and only one clue: thiat single flash of communication from the mature and powerful Lan Jedd, instants after he died... A mental picture of a pyramidal shape and the thought: It came from nowhere, from nothing. Cemp felt a chill as he contemplated the fantastic implications of the message. The immense speed of the attack... out of nowhere. Presently, Cemp telepathed to OuDan: "Why don't you come with me and we'll wait in the ship? Its weapons will help us if we're attacked." Ou-Dan followed Cemp into an alcove barrier at the heart of the machinery that made uip the "ship." "But I'm not staying," he said. Cettnp sensed behind the decision, not antagonism, but disinterest. Ou-Dan's thought came again: "I remained with Lan's dead body out of courtesy till someone arrived. Now, that you're here, I plan to return to Earth." "It's safer in the ship," Cemp urged. He pointed out that it was an Earth Silkie maxim never to take unnecessary chances. Ou-Dan's plan to go out by himself into space seemed a risk of this kind. "It would be purely accidental," was the reply, "If I met .the killer in these vast reaches. My guess is he spotted Lan when he used the relay system to communicate with me. As I see it, the closer you are to a ship, (the greater your danger." The analysis had its own reasonableness. But why, since Ou-Dan had joined the exploration group in the first place, leave now? Cemp asked the question. Ou-Dan said that because of Cemp's action in saving the meteorite Silkies from the Glis eight months 'before, Ou-Dan felt obligated to tell him that he considered this to be a crisis. But .truth was it was probably typical of the many crises that would occur in the future in a new system comprising eighteen hundred and twenty-three habitable planets. So the time to resolve Silkie rights in relation to human beings was now. Ou-Dan predicted that the Silkie originals would undoubtedly take no further action until their legal situation with Earth was settled. "The others and I came out to get the feel of being involved," said Ou-Dan. "So I can tell you right now that we're not going .to settle for being police officers like you. And of course we're not going to give up our ability to change to any form or shape of body. IF "After tail," Ou-Dan conitinued toleranitly, "just because you're limited to the Silkfle#n mmia.n cycle doesn't mean we have to be." They had been tialLldinig mentally at the siiper-sipeied of thoughts synchronized with magnetic carrier waves. It would have aotuaJly required a small book for a transcriipt of the details of itheir messages to each other; the overtones were that many. Now, for the period required for a private thought, Cemp put up a barrier. The fantastic subject of change of form was not one that he was prepared to discuss with anyone. In fact, he had instructions from the Silkie Foundation (to keep secret his special knowledge. T he original Silkies -- like OuDan -- had a ibiaaic ability to change into any living shape or form that could contain, expand or compress the total numiber of molecules involved. It need not be merely a human form. Theara was however, an elementary level itiansformaition, beginniing with a general internal and external resemblance -- not too refined but adequate for any reasonable purpose. In addition, in the presence of a life-form, they could by a continuous rapid scanning and feedback method duplicate it at virtually any level of refinement -- so long as the being who was duplicated was dose by. Earth Sdlldes, on the other hand, had been bioloicalliy limi to humanilkie B-Se C chani which was automatic once it was # in motion. Only Nat Cemp, of the Earth Silkies, could go beyond the Silldehuman cycle. In confronting the remarkable Kibmadine, he had learned its perfect method of metamorphic ability. He needed only the memory of somebody once met to be able to become that being with total duplication. Having had (these thoughts, and hidden them, Cemp tdepathed in a temporizing way, "Don't underestimate human beings." "I won't," retorted Ou-Dan, "so long as they have you fooled into being on their side." Cemp said, "Even with the # origmal Silkies added to our own numbers, the total Silkie population of the entire universe is less than #. Such a minority has to adjust to the vast planetary populations of other lifenforms." Ou-Dan said, "I don't have to adjust to anything. I'm free to do as I please." Cemp said, "All througih human history, wherever ipeople got the right to make their own choices, they presently refused to cooperate even for the common good. Soon, each person set himself up as having an opinion as good as anybody eJse's. Naturally, they first of all soon fell under ithe influence of individuals with skillful systems and in the end were maneuvered into a new slavery. Now, here you are making the same error of refusing to cooperate." "Let others cooperate with us," was the reply. "We're the superior beings." "M we were so great," Cemp flashed back, "bow come tbeie're so few of us left?" "Weil -- " Ou-Dan was impatient -- "we were unlucky tbat we ran into a race witb even more that's the legend. And of course after that we were in that meteorite xmder the control of the Glis, and our numbers were kept limited." C emp pointed out gently that control of Silkies by the Glis was the slave condition. "Therefore," he said, "we may deduce that long ago Silkies reached the state of refusing to cooperate for the common good. We can picture enormous, vaulting egos, opinionated and ridiculous, never once having a true survival thought. "We can," Cemp continued, "picture Silkies refusing to abide by any system of law, going out into space if anyone threatened them. Feeling absolutely impregnable. And then one day out there in the dark reaches they met their match, and were hunted down one by one by a remorseless enemy." "I don't see," said Ou-Dan, "how we free Silkies can even talk to someone as conformist as you are." "Reliable is the word," answered Cemp. "I can be trusted to do what I say. Evidently you and your originals cannot even decide what role you want to play." "Why should we have a role? Why should we work at all, at anything? Why shouldn't human beings work for us instead of we few them? That's a perfectly fair question." Cemp exfriained that human beings seemed to be easily surviving their present association with Silkies. But this might not be true if the conditions of association were altered. Ou-Dan seemed indifferent to the possibility. And Cemp realized it was a lot to expect that someone who had had no previous contact with human beings would care about them. But Cemp, who had been bom to a human mother, did care. So he said, with the intent of ending the discussion, "We'll have a general meeting soon. We'll talk then." Such a meeting had already been proposed by Charley Baxter, head of the Silkie Foundation. Baxter, who was one of the Special People, was as anxious about the attitude of the original Silkies as Cemp. Ou-Dan accepted the end of conversation with: "I have nothing more to learn here. Good-by." Whereupon he launched into space, and was quickly lost from view. Presently, he did not even register on the magnetic band as any different from the meteorite flotsam and jetsam that populated all areas of space. U I n this distant point in space, with all the trigger systems for the "ship" set for instant reaction, Cemp waited for he knew not what. The open-to-space ship was itself lightless. Artificial light on any level "interfered with the sensitive instmments that monitored the protective weaponry. It was enough problem for the equipment around him that IF he himself had to be taken account of. Periodically, Cemp made a complete check of that equipment. He established each time that every relay was ready to snap and that each device was separately set to permit the presence of his Sihde shape and mass and of that portion of his life energy which he could not contain within himself. While he waited, Cemp gazed "down" in the general direction of Earth. The view below him had the forever-new quality of light and form that had passed a threshold point of abundance. There were so many, the dark sky of Earth's new supersun system. The sheer number of planets, each with a different coloration, made for a timelesy beautiful panorama. For Cemp, it was below and down because he had long ago oriented himself in such human terms. In his Silkie body he always operated at what would have been face down in a human being. So he had a right and a left, a front and a back, and an up and down. In the several conversations that he conducted with far Earth, Cemp could obtain no additional advice as to any other precautions he might take. No one believed that way out there at the remote edge of the system any living being could approach him, unnoticed. Yet what Lan Jedd reported, indicated that there would be no advance warning. There wasn't. A t the moment of the attack, Cemp had waited in the ship exactly four Earth hours, eiteen minutes and forty-two seconds. The being who lat that time for a few split-instants was exposed to Cemp's perception had the shape of an inverted p#rramid. Interesting that in the transmission of the same image from the now deceased Lan Jedd, the invert had not come through. The transmiting computer, consulting its analogs, had produced a pyramid stereotype wherein the base was down and the point up. In fact, the base was up and the point down. That was all Cemp had time to "see," for the creature was in the trap only momentarily. A less speedy perception than that of a Silkie would have noticed at best a shadow darkening a lighted space. Despite the colossal speed of the being's withdrawal, Cemp with his heightened Silkie perception was able to examine awareness centers in himself that had automatically recorded more data. Thus Cemp continued to view where it had been through a series of neural and energy receptors that played back their information for his evaluation. He realized, fascinated: During the moment it was in the trap, the creature attacked and tried to kill him. But he was saved by the defenses of the trap. A strong impulse came to study the battle, to discover immediately what it was that had made him vulnerable, why his own screens wouldn't have worked. Cemp fought that impulse, thinking: Put the battle aside. Examine it kst For an attack was only that -- energy, force, whatever. It was the Nijjan method of approaching the trap that everybody down the line wanted to know about. Where had the fantastic thing come from? Studying the after-images, Cemp saw with amazement that the pyramid shape was actually an energy projection from a source. The being at the source he could not get a good look at; it withdrew so rapidly. Considerang the "impossible" speed of that withdrawal, he recaHod a scientifically oriented speculative discussion he had had with other Silkies about his encounter with the Glis. Now, he felt that Oils experience again in his mind -- and that wasn't it. The discovery appalled him. For what he had perceived had been something; and then it was nothing. Something to nothing. Nothing to something to nothing. What could it be? C emp had one receptor that had on it a vague perception. So vague that it gained reality only because he played it for himself a dozen times, and even then it remained unclear. But with so many replays he had an impression, if so it could be called, that the energy point which was the apparent source of the inverted pyramid had anoth point at some vasit distance beyond it. And behind -- beyond -- that point was still another point, and beyond that wther, and more points in the vaster distance. Or was it distance? Cemp couldn't decide. After viewing and re-viewing the perceptic impression, so shadowy and uncertain, he consciously compared what he saw to an endless image reflected in two perfect mirrors facing each other. But even that was only an analogy. Because the images extended into only one mirror and not the other. It was a one-direction phenomenon. It was a mystery which he could not solve; so, unesy, he turned his attention to the life-and-deaith battle he had fought. Like the other aspects of that momentary contact, the engagement could only be studied in its confusing aftermath. Examined thus, it showed as having started the split-instant that the creature arrived. The trap, consisting in its first phase of a Glistype molecule with the gravity power of a planet, had instantaneously oriented to the enemy. It was instantaneous because, of course, gravity has no lag; there is no moment of waiting while it goes through a process of adjustment. The molecule, that remarkable discovery of the ancient nature of matter the secret of which Cemp had gotten from the Glis, reached with the power of an entire world -- and attached itself to the alien. Hindered him. The attacker, thus handicapped, nevertheless did something. What, Cemp had no idea. AH Cemp's great defenses were up: his energy IF screens, his magnetic methods of turning aside radiation, what he had learned from the Kibmadine about using attack energy against the attacker. But the attack was not on an energy band. Cemp's defenses had no effect. -- He felt a change in his whole body, a sudden sense of inward-collapsing distortion... His thought twisted strangely. Unable to put up a single barrier, Cemp felt himself spin toward death -- The next split-moment the creature, hindered by the molecule, disappeared. And the battle was over. m U rgently, Cemp opened a line to Earth. He was quickly deluged with questions. And someone had the same thought as he had had: that the pyramid was a weapon that operated through some mirror principle from an actual distance. Thus -- it was argued -- the effect of nothing to something to nothing was like a mirror being turned on and off in the time it took a relay to push-pull a switch. "No!" answered Cemp. "It was a life-form. I sensed its aliveness." That ended that part of the argument right there. Qiarley Baxter came on. "Your data is being fed into the computer, Nat," he said gravely. "While we wait, would you like to speak to your wife?" "Of course, what do you think." Joanne's thought, when it came through, reflected irritation. "Everybody's so damned secretive about what you're doing," she began. So they hadn't told her his danger. Cemp was relieved. "Look," he telepathed, "we're exploring out here and testing a new ship. That's all Fm allowed to say." It was a truth of sorts. He added, "What have you been up to?" His attempt at diverting her was successful. Joanne became indignant. "I have had the most horrible experience," she reported. What she told him was that Silkie women -- members of the original Silkies -- had called on the human wives of Earth Silkies and urged them to divorce their Silkie husbands. Such a Silkie woman had called on Joanne and demanded that she divorce Cemp. The Silkie woman had pointed out bluntly that Cemp as a Sillde would live to be at least a thousand years old. And, of course, Joanne was more mortal than that by fat. "So -- " the Silkie woman had urged -- "why not face the reality of that now, while you are still young?" Cemp had the unhappy feeling that the problem was more severe than Joanne knew. A thousand years was as long as the Glis, for its own reasons, had allowed meteorite Silkies to live. A Silkie's actual life span was an unknown. Yet he had always fdt that these matters would be resolved in their own good time. Joanne was under thirty. Her present life expectancy was about one hundred and fifty. Long before she readied that age, human immortality might become possible. Questioning her, he discovered that Joanne had toughly pointed out all these things to the Silkie woman and had given as much as she received. I t was not a moment for Cemp to consider what changes might come in the Silkiehuman tangle. He telepaithed with wairmth, "Don't worry about any of this. You're my darling." "That's a powerful point," said Joanne sweetly. "But don't think you've fooled me for a moment. I sense there's a big event coming up in your life, and you're taking it in stride as usual." "Well -- " Cemp began. "It's really an unresolvable dilemma," answered Joanne. "What is?" Cemp asked, in surprise. Cemp quickly realizedthat Joanne's concern was not with the danger but, of all things, with the fact he was not afraid. She said, almost tearfully, "If you feel so confident against such a mighty enemy -- what's going to become of Silkiehuman relations?" "Meaning, I presume," said Cemp, "that Silkies don't need humans any more?" "Well, do they?" Cemp explain patiently, "In the first place, my confidence is in Logic of Levels, and not in myself." Joanne brushed that aside. "It's the same ithing. Logic of Levels is a tool that you can use whether you're associated with humans or not" "In the second place, " Cemp replied, "I don't even know yet whether I'm going to dare use it though I'm certainly going to threaten it." "You'll be forced to. And then you'll win, and there you'll be at an incredible height of power and ability." "In the ithird place," Cemp continued, "the association between Silkies and humans exists. And I'm particularly happy with what I got out of the transaction -- meaning you." He broke off. "Do I seem any smarter?" "N-no." "I.Q. human level, eh, stiM?" "I suppose so." Reluctant admission. "I stiU seem to reason like a human being, correct?" "But you're so powerful." "Perhaps you should think of me as a battleship commander," said Cemp. "In this instance, the battleship is my Silkie body, and you're the commander's beloved wife." The comparison seemed to buoy her, for her mind smiled at him, and she said, "They're motioning me to stop, and I still love you, but good-hy, my dear." Her conuminication ceased. C harley Baxter came on. "The computer," he said, and there was concern in his thought, "was reminded by your data of something you reported months ago; something the Gliis told you during its death throes." IF Cemp remembered: The Glis, realizing that Cemp was a dangerous SilJde, had headed toward a remote sttar system. This system -- according to what the Glis had told Cemp in its final, desperate effort to save itself -- was inhabited by an ancient enemy of the Silkies. These beings called themselves Nijjans. Which was a race name with the mighty meaning: Creators of Universes. Or, in its fullest sense: The People Who Know the Nature of Things and Can Create Universe at Will. As Cemp uney pondered the hideous possibilifiife' if the analysis were true, Baxter!)icfeued in an arguing overtone, the Glis was going somewhere. You did get alarmed and you threaded him. As you described it, thd" Glis slowed down and tried to make his pie with you. So that whatever system he was pointing toward must be out there iq the direction he was going, not too far away." Since astronomers had gotten a line on Sol, Earth's former sun, they had already projected a line fairly straight at the Glis's originial destination somewhere in near space. "And," said Baxter, "the system is out there about six light-years beyond you, Nat." Such details were, of course, of interest. But Cemp was under too much threat for anything but the absolutely decisive points to matter. He telepathed hastily, "Does the computer have any idea how the Nijjan killed Lan? Or how I should handle him if he comes back with reinforcements?" Baxter's disturbed reply came. "Nat, this is a terrible thing to tell someone in your situation. But the computer hasn't the faintest idea how the thing came out of nothingness or what the force used against Lan and you was. It says it has no programming that fits and -- " That was all Cemp had time to receive. , At that precise split-instant, the perceptors that he had projected beyond the Nijjan's first relay point were triggered. Since he had a communication line open to Earth, he allowed his recording of danger to go through him and along that line. The esSwiitial of communication was: The Nijjan is back... before I'm ready. IV I t seemed like long, long before. There the creature was, in much the same position as the first time: partly inside the ship, a hundred feet away. But alone! That was the one hopeful aspect. The inverted pyramidal projection glimmered with flickering energy pulsations. Cemp now saw that the actual being at the source of the projection was also an inverted pyramid -- in a way. The base was much narrower. And it had, he observed, arms and legs. It was about six feet long, and beautiful in that its hard, bright skin glittered and shone with changing color. IF At the instant of the alien's arrival, the Glis molecule tried to attach itself. But the Nijjan was evidently prepared; for he balanced himself against it, somehow. And thereafter ignored the molecule. Cemp grew aware that the creature was looking at him intently from one or more of the bright points at the upper part of its body. Tentatively, Cemp sent a thought on a magnetic wave. The answer came at once on the same wave band; came with multiples more force than Cemp was accustomed to receiving. Yet he had his own neural transformers that stepped the power down to his level -- And he had his first communication. The creature began: "Let's have . a conversation." "You have a lot to explain," Cemp thought back, grimly. "We're puzzled," was the reply. "Suddenly a Nova-Osize appears only a few light-years from our own system. On investigation, we discover that the system which has so suddenly come into being is the largest planetary family, possibly, in the galaxy. Only a few of the planets are inhabited. But many have been in the past and are no longer so. Climactically, one of our exploring units meets a Silkie, a powerful being known from our antiquity as an enemy. He naturally destroys this being." Said Cemp, "We shall require your people to execute this explorer who so instantly -- and naturally -- took it upon himself to destroy a Silkie." "It was an ancient reflex, which has now been modified," was the reply. "So execution will not occur. It could have happened to any Nijjan." "Did you do it?" Cemp asked. "Are you this -- what did you call him? -- exploring unit?" "Would it matter?" "Probably not." The Nijjan changed the subject, "What do you Silkies do in relation to human beings? What is your role?" "We're police." "Oh! That's interesting." Cemp couldn't see how. Besides his attention was still concentrated on the other's explanation for the C emp admitted reluctantly to himself that if an attack reflex had indeed been set up long ago in all these creatures, and never canceled, it would be difficult to adjudicate intentional murder. But his next communication acknowledged none of this, as he continued: "All right, so here we are, accidentally doomed to occupy a space only a few light-years from each other. And we have eighteen hundred habitable planets. How many do you have?" "That's a difficult question to answer. We don't think in terms .of having a planet of our own. But I sense this is a difficult concept for you, so I'll say we probably do own one planet -- our original home." "Do you want any more," "Not in the sense that you mean. All tjiis is too new. But our basic purposes are peaceful.' Cemp didn't believe him. It sihould have 'been true. The passing of the eons sihould have ended old impulses of hatred and destruction. On Earth, a thousand descendants of enemies of an equal number of yesteryears now lived side by side, at peace apparently forever. Of course, this was not quite the same. The Nijjans were not descendants. They were the same beings who, long ago indeed, had attained the heights of their civilization and also immortality. These were the same creatures that had in the distant past hated and sought to exterminate the Silkies -- so the GHs had told Cemp. In that olden time, desiring to have the Silkies as servants, the mighty Glis had offered them a symbiotic relationship as the price for saving them. And the Silkies had accepted. But that, with the transformation and defeat of the Glis, was now over. And the Silkies were again on their own. They could expect no help from any outside source. It was a shaking thought. But Cemp was unrelenting. "I can't accept your disclaimer," he said. "Because why, when you first arrived here, presumably with your attack reflt'x already canceled, did you try to kill me?" The Nijjan's reply was: "It was a defensive act. Something grabbed me. I see now that it is an unusual gravitational manifestation. But in that first moment I reacted in two ways: Immediate counter-attack. And retreat. As soon as I had considered what the threat was, I decided to return. And here I am. So let's talk." It was a good explanation. Yet Cemp's feeling remained: he didn't believe the story. Couldn't accept it. Considered it motivated by the Nijjan's' desire to gain time... He had a desperate conviction that his danger was increasing with each passing moment. Cemp wondered: What does he want the time for? The obvious answer: Time to explore the ship, of course. Its structure, its weaponry. "If what you say is true," Cemp countered, "then you will tell me what your method of attack was. How did your colleague kill a Silkie?" "It would be foolish of me to reveal my advantages," answered the Nijjan. "How do I know what your plans are?" Though that, also, was basically true, it was a total stop to discussion. Yet there were still things he could learn. C emp sent out magnetic waves on all bands, designed to stir reactions in the other's body. He recorded the information ithat came back on magnetic waves passing through the Nijjan's 'body at the time his messages arrived. He used radar and (read the data that bounced back. -- And geon waves, those strange time-delay patterns. IF -- He used the Ylem energy, alS# -- and that was dangerously close to being a weapon. But his purpose, which he telepathed to the Nijjan, was to elicit a reaction. If there was, in fact, any understanding for him in the waves and energies that reflected or came back to him, Cemp could not analyze it. With an effort, Cemp braced himself against the failure, and commanded, "Leave! Unless you reveal the method of murder, I refuse to continue this conversation. And I assure you that no further negotiations between our two groups can occur until that revelation is made." The Nijjan answered, "I cannot give such data without authorization. So why not come with me and talk to -- " He used a mental meaning that implied a government but had a different, additional implication, which Cemp could not evaluate. Cemp answered, "That would place me at your mercy." "Somebody has to negotiate. Why not you?" One thing, it seemed to Cemp, could be said for this Nijjan. As a deceiver, if that were what he was, he was certainly consistent. Telepathicaily, he temporized: "How would I go with you?" "Move past me, across and into the projon of myself at a distance of -- " The Nijjan named a measurement in terms of a certain magnetic wavelength. Once more, Cemp felt grudging admiration for this being. He thought: For all I know, that will What was fascinating was that he was being maneuvered into doing It to himself. The extreme skillfulness of the deception involved was what, in tills near-ultimate moment, focused Cemp's attention on that aspect. A s he realized the possibility, Cemp did two things. He sent a beam to the trap mechanism which controlled the molecule with its planet-sized gravity; and released the molecule's hold on the Nijjan. The rationale of this first action was: the being must be bracing himself against that gravity, was using power to hold himself away from it. At the moment of release, he would have to deal with the resultant inertia, the equivalent of a planet's centrifugal thrust. The second thing Cemp did was more subtle, but he did it at the same instant. He tried Logic of Levels on the one behavior that he had now belatedly noticed in the Nijjan. And, because he wasn't sure it would work, and didn't want to give away what, until now, had been a human-Silkie secret, he hoped the gravity release would confuse the great being who had come into this trap with such toital confidence in his own ability against Silkies -- confuse the Nijjan, render 'him momentarily vulnerable and, somehow, prevent disaster. The behavior Cemp believed he had observed was the creature manifesting the famous betrayal pattern. From the point of view of Logic of Levels, it was a minioir event in the brain. Since it was the basic mnning cyde of life, nothing decisive could be done against it. By triggering it, he could force the Nijjan to win more. -- Which was pretty ironic and could lead to unknown consequences. But it was the only opening available. Three things happened at the same moment: The molecule released. The betrayal cycle triggered. Cemp entered the path of the energy beam, which created the larger pyramid. He felt a sensation different from anything he had ever experienced. Under him and around him, the trap-ship... vanished. He perceived that he was in a strange -- not place, for there was nothing. But... what? V I n a group, only the leader can betray. And he must betray, or be ready to betray, or there is no group. Everyone else has to conform, fit in, follow the rules, be a supporter without qualifications. Even to think an objection is wrong. You must swear fealty to the leader "without mental reservations." You must support the code and ideally report to the leader's police any deviations from it on the part of others, and on the part of yourself. Alt any moment for the good of the group -- by the leader's judgment alone -- you can be betrayed (saoiifLced) wiithouit any other explanation being required. Periodically, you or some other conformist must be betrayed as a matter of policy, even if you have not deviat from the code by any previously applied standard of judgment. The leader's act of betrayal (of you) of itself makes you guilty. Immediately every other person in the group must disconnect from you without mental reservations. The rule of betrayal by the leader alone applies under any group system, including the elective -- where the leader's immediate aides are his group. As a group grows larger, the leader delegates his betrayal rights to unevenly qualified persons, who act in his name. Where this process (of delegation) continues and expands, there are alleviations because not every sub-leader is as sensitive to the danger of non-conformism -- being a conformist himself -- as the leader. But the leader who can read minds, and who utilizes the betrayal cycle through a remorseless police control method, can remain leader... forever. Thus betrayal, consistently applied, wins at all levels. F or Cemp, a combinafeon event was occurring. He felt as if someone with whom he was in a kind of total telepathic communication was small. So small. Or -- a sudden puzzlement struck him -- was he, in fact, very large? IF Incredibly large? (Larger thian the universe? The being whose ithougjhits Cemp was receiving rejected the concept of vastness. It was more comfortable to feel -- small. Satisfied that he w;as a mere point, the being considered what he might become. He thought, and Cemp received the thought along with the awareness: N'Yata will be pleased that I am having this moment of near-ultimate reality. At his stage of development, he could only expect to hold on for a brief time, aligning what was possible for him, setting up as many of the golden lights as he could, in the time available. Mustn't waste a second! One by one the being, himself so small, discharged even tinier bits of the smallness into the dark. Each bit was hard to push away, as if it's attachment to him, or consanguinity, prevented it from departing to any distance. The first few yards were tremendously hard, the first miles hard, the first light-years progressively easier, the distance of a galaxy Hke wafting a feather into a whirlwind. And the dark lightyears beyond seemed almost barrierless. Suddenly, one of the points he had thus put out attracted the being's attention. He thought: No, oh, no, I mustn't. ' What he fought, then, was a surge of interest within ihimself in that point. He tried to tell himself the truth: that it was he who had put out the point, and it was he who was projecting the interest into it. That it had no interest of its own. But a curious inversion wias taking place: the conviction that the point was of itself interesting. That there was something attractive there, separate from 'his thought about it. As he had that awareness, Cemp sensed that .the creature's high, pure energy began to drop. Rapidly, it seem -- how long it took he didn't know -- the being suffered an emotional transformation from a kind of radiance to -- an, oh, wdl -- boredom, through a momentary flash of rage to the self-delusion of: I am probably god, or at least a sui#god. So everything must align with me. He was back, the areature thought sardonioaly, to the level of betrayal. As he had that awareness, he was already at the other point, die one that had so automatiically annised his interest. -- Every instant that these remarkable events occurred, Cemp was fighting and observing, by means of another aspect of his awareness, a life-and-leath battle that had no meaning. Because no one was fighting him. L ike a man who falls througlh an luinoticed manhole imto a drainage pipe of deep,, dirty, siwiriing water; like a child grabbing at and abruptly caught by the surging power of a live wire; like someone who puts his foot into a noose sets off a trigger and is jerked a hundred feet above ground as a bcsA tree springs back into position -- Cemp had moved himself into a cosmic equivalent of the slipstream of a rocket. He was msitaiitly beyoiDd Inis abilky to cope, sitruigglliBg with a natural force that transceiiided has expedience. It was a basic conidition of space, the existence of which had never been suspected by man or Silkie. Cemp put up hiis barriers. Drew energy from the trap-hip. Replenished what was being suctioned from him. The golden dot winked out. And Cemp grew aware that he was in a large room. Several human beings, who were sitting before an enodimous instrument bank, turned and looked at him in amazement. As Cemp recognized top personnel of the Silkie Foundation, Charley Baxter leaped from his chair and came loping across the d'isitances of the thick carpet. Another realization forced itself upon Cemp: His Silkie body felt unstiahila in a unique fashion. Not undeasant, the sensation was as If some pant of ihim were aware of a distant place. The allarmed thought came: I'm stdl oonnected to another location! I could he snatched out of here any nsoment. And what was alaiimiing about that was that he had no further defense. Except for one small delaying idea, he had used up his available posAccordingly, the real crisis was upon him, unless -- Cemp transformed to human. Doing so was not a well considered act. He had the thou'ght that a change of structure mi free him even a little from that nemote...  connection. Because it was his only remaining possibility, he made the change at once. And, in his haste, he half-fell, half-slid, to the floor. The transition, he noted with relief, seemed to work. The feeling of being connected faded to a shadowy thing -- still there, but like a whisper in a room where someone had been yelling moments before. As Charley Baxter came up, Cemp called out to him, "Quick! Let's get to the computer. I don't know what happened. I should be read." On the way, someone slipped Cemp a robe. He donned it over his naked body without pausing. There was a little conversation, tense, staccato. Baxter asked, "What seemed to happen?" "I gained some time," replied Cemp. A s he explained it, it was of course much more than that. Insitead of being instantly defeated, he had manipulated and confused the enemy. Confronted by a superior 'being, he had used what ability and capacity he had. Now he desperately needed help, some kind of understanding about the fantastic thing he had experienced. Baxter asked anxiously, "How much time do you think we have?" Cemp replied, "I have an impression that they'ie working at top speed. An hour -- no more." It appeared to 'be true. At least they arrived in the computer room safely. In its siwift eleotronic way -- yet slowly for the urgency that Cemp IF felt -- the computer made its study of him. And came up with its four alternative answers. The first of the two that mattered -- number three -- was strange indeed. "I have the impression," said the computer, "that everything that happened was occurrinig in someone's mmd. Yet there is an impression of something ultimate in that concept. Something -- well, I don't know -- really basic to all things." And of course that was hard to accept. Ultimate -- basic -- was too great. An ultimate, axiomaticaliy, could not be fought or resisted by something less. "And that," said the computer, "is really all I can teU you. The manipulations of space of which the Nijjans seem to be capable 'are new. It would seem as if the cells in their system had to adjust to conditions that give them an advantage over other life-forms; some kind of greater control over the essence of things." It was a bad moment. For even as the computer reported failure, Cemp sensed an internal change for the worse. The something -- out there -- was adjusting to his human body. He had a sudden conviction that at any moment a threshold point would be crossed. Hastily, he reported the sensation to Baxter and finished, "I was hoping we'd have time for me to visit the Earth headquarters of the original Silkies, but I'd better go Silkie myself right now." Charley Baxter's reply showed his awareness of Cemis danger, the possibility that Cemp might find himself in some far vacuum of space in his unprotected human body. Baxter asked anxiously, "Didn't you transform to human because as a Silkie you were even more vulnerable to whatever is pulling at you?" It was true. But ithere was no alternative. As a Silkie he would temporarily at least be safer in a dangerous environment. Baxter went on, and his voice held a note of strain. "Nat, why don't you change to some other form?" C emp turned and stared at him. And then for a space the two of them were silent. They stood there 'in that plush room, with its cushioned chairs and its small mechanical protrusions -- which were ah that wias visible of the giant computer. Finally Cemp said: "Charley, the consequences of what you suggest are an unknown factor." Baxter said earnestly, "Nat, if we can't trust you to work it out, then it's an unsolvable problem anyway." The sensation of imminent change was stronger. But still Cemp temporized. What Baxter suggested was almost as world-shaking as the Nijjan threat. Transform -- to anything!! To any body. To any form. Be something entirely different from the three bodies he knew so well. He believed what Charley had said wias a truth. But it was a truth in relation to a known past -- the hnnian-Silkie situation that he had grown up with. It was iiot a trutih to someone who didn't Ihave that background. The meteorite "originar Silkie, Ou-Dan, had made that crystal clear. Cemp had the strangest conviction of his entire life: that he was like a man poised in pitch darkness on some edge, preparing to jump into the night ahead -- and bellow. It would of course be a limited jump. At the moment there were only about three alien changes he could make. He could become a Kibmadine and the creature to which the Kibmadine had changed to... and a Nijjan. He explained to Charley, "You have to have a mental picture to go by, have to have 'seen' the other being first; and I only have a few." "Change to Nijjan!" urged Baxter. Cemp said, almost blankly, "Are you serious?" And then, because he had an internal sensation as of something beginning to slip away from him -- it was a very distinct impression -- he hastily played the Nijjan image, as he had recorded it -- "played" it through the transmorpha system. As he did so, all his cells received the uniform simultaneous charge of energy that acted like the explosion of the cap of a cartridge, releasing the pent-up energy in the cell. The .transformation was as rapid as it was because the chemical energy thus released needed instantaneous unions with their chemioal counterparts. Again, it was one of those situatioihs where, by theory, the entire process should have required a second or less. In actual fa of course, living cells were slow to adjust. So, it was exactly five and a half seconds after start that Cemp was in his new state. He was also, he observed, in a strange place. VI C emp became aware that he was recording the thoughts of the other ibeing again. This being -- the Nijjan enemy -- grew conscious of something to his left. He glanced in that direction and saw that N'Yata had moved from her remote center of being into his space. It was a movement that he welcomed and admired, since she was at least half a stage above him in development. Under ordinary circumstances, he would have appreciated her coming because it was both flattering to and educational for him. And normally it would have been an ideal opportunity for him to observe and imitate her greater perfection. But this was not a normal or ordinary occasion. She had come in response to his need for help; his puzzling failure to deal with Cemp. Her .thought about this showed in her movement, and so he perceived her as a single golden dot the size of an atom. Her smallness, and her location to his left, he was able to mark by crisscrossing lines of forces. Cemp marked it with him. But presently he had a private thought to the effect: how am I observing IF this? And ithieii he reailized. With his own eoeirgy auitomatLoailly evoked firom ihiim by an emotion, widdh (the other beanies ithoughits noted with a wiy self-judgmenit) was still only a few viibiaiti alxwe betrayal. Once again. Logic of Levels and all its implicit awareness of the nature of emotion was Cemp's only possible overt defense. And of course, as before, betrayal was simply not an area by w!hioh he could decisively defeat anyone. Also, he felt inituiitively reluctant to trigger the more capable N'Yata to some ultimate level of win. With these various restrictions in mind, he directed his one defense against all the destruction implicit in the betrayal emiotioa. Subtly. He urged her to a slightly gayer meaning of betrayal. Suggested seduction. Argued that the pleasure outweighed negative aspects. His was a skillful counteraction, for the golden dot switched positions in space. Moved ifrom his left to directly in front of him. How many light-years were involved in that switch, Cemp could not deterirdine. N'Yaita was still at a very remote viewpoint. The vast distances defied measurement by his onehalf-step lower techniques, in which he reflected the condition of the Nijjan 'body he had duplicated. "You can still betray!" That was the thought-feelinig, which flowed back now from the golden dot to Cemp. Having sent the message, the dot began to recede. Oemp felt a distinct drop in his own energy level to a stiU lower (than betiayal) level of grief and apathy. As tie watched the dot go, first lorg came for death, so great was the outSow of his life energy. He recognized it as a half-hearted attempt to kill him, sensed that even though she knew he was not the real G'Tono, she was puzzled. In the final issue, she could not bring herself to destroy another Nijjan -- not even a duplicate one. Her withdrawal was an intent to consider the problem. He felt her let him go. His thought ended. He was back in the computer room. C emp glanced over at Baxter and telepathed, "What happened?" Having asked the question, Cemp grew conscious of three things. The first of these was mereily interesting: During Cemp's    confrontation... with N'Yata, Baxter had moved away. The man stood now staring at Cemp, a wary expression on his lean face. Once more, Cemp asked, "I bad an experience. What seemed to occur while I was having it?" It was the same question as before, but more detailed. This time, Baxter stirred. He said aloud, "I don't get your thoughts any more. So let me just say that now I sense that your Nijjan body is radiating more force than I can take. Evidently you'ie in a different energy state." Cemp was reniembering his own earlier problem in receiving the communication of the Nijjan. After a moment's consideiraitioiii of tihe diffiouSity, he tentatively tried for an adjustment of output in the bank of ceis devoted ito the problem. Then he telepathed to Baxter, again tentatively. An expression of relief came over the lean man's face. "Okay," he replied, "We're on. What happened?" Cemp hastily reported his experience, ftnishing, "There's no question, my original use of Logic of Levels confused the first Nijjan I met, whose name I gather is G'Tono. By spiraling him up to a superwin situation, I escaped whatever he had in mind. And now, by becoming a duplicate of him -- essentially that's all I did -- I momentarily confused N'Yata. But she recovered fast, and so time is of the essence." "You think -- " "Wait!" admonished Cemp. It was the second awareness that was suddenly in Cemp's mind, and that was not merely interesting; it was urgent: He still had the consciousness of being a Nijjan. I t had all happened so fast At the moment of change, instant transfer to a confrontation with N'Yata; then back here -- Now, Cemp realized that as a Nijjan he could hear sounds. Baxter's human voice had jenetrated to him at a normal level -- sea-level Earth pressure, it seemed. With that to start, Cemp did a lightning-swift orientation: not only sound was affected but sight, fng, proprioceptive sensations. He 'possessed an apparently human physic-emoition sptrum. And he could walk. He felt oddshaped appendages that held him, balanced him, enabled him to stand... and arm-like things, more sinuous. Cemp was not surprised that he was aware of human quaHties. Change of shape was not change of being, but a cbamdeon-like alteration of appearance, a total alteration as distinct from merely a method of conceialment, not simply a 'blending with a background. He was the human-Silkie, Nat Cemp, in the shape of a Nijjan. His Barth-horn cells were the basic stuff of his new body, different undoubtedly from the actual cells of a Nijjan. Yet the similarity, in its finer details, was sufficiently intricate to be interesting to Cemp. It made him hopeful that, by being a Nijjanshape, he would be able also to discover some of the secrets of that shape's abilities. His attention continued to leap from point to point of his Nijjan body. The legs and arms -- being able to have them in the vacuum of space: that was different from Silkiehuman. The Silkie shape could survive in space only if the interior flesh and structure were separated from the vacuum by a steel#iard ohitinous substance. For that, even legs had to be massive. And so Silkies had semi#egs and nothing but a . grimace where the face and head should be. The Nijjans evidently had the IF same ability without change of form. A hard substance? It didn't seem that way. It seemed more like a different molecular structure. -- No time to investigate that! On a higher level, there was in the Nijjan body the entire magnetic wave band, and radiation sensitivity; also, awareness of gravity, and all the stasis centers that made it possible for Silkies to operate stabily in the vacuum of space. There was more. Cemp perceived another set of control centers high in the thickest part of the pyramidal shape. But these neural areas were silent, flowed no energy and responded to none of his hastily directed thoughtcommands. If there was any automatic activity above the level of mere chemical survival in that mass of nerve substance, Cemp could not detect it. He surmised uneasily: was it the space-control lobe of the Nijjan brain? But he had no time to experiment with it. Not yet. What was particularly frustrating was that there was no larger pyramidal energy image projecting from him. So that was not an automatic process. Could it be an output of some kind from the space-control cells? No time to investigate that either. No time, because his third awareness was forcing in upon his attention, and that was something he could do something about. By his reasoning, furthermore, it was related to the second awareness he bad had. Thus he was not really turning away from what it was like to be a Nijjan to something less urgent. Not completely turning, anyway. "Wait... a little longer," Cemp repeated to Baxter. Having telepathed the second admonition, Cemp put out another thought on a magnetic beam that humans could read. The thought was directed toward the headquarters on Earth of the Space Silkies. It was on an open channel; and so he was not surprised when he received answers from three minds, one a Silkie female. All three answers were the same: We space Silkies have agreed that we will not discuss our affairs on an individual basis. "What I have to say is very urgent. Do you have a spokesman?" Cemp asked. "Yes. I-Yun. But you'll have to come over. He can only talk if some of us are monitoring." T he implication was of group thinking and group action, decisions by many, not merely one. Considering the restrictions -- which he did fleetingly -- Cemp had a sudden intuition, athougiht that was surdy an insight of major import "I'll be there in -- " Cemp began. He paused, turned to Baxter and asked, "How quickly can you get me over to Space Silkie hcquarters?" Baxter was pale. "It would take too long, Nat," he protested. 'Tifteen, twenty minutes -- " " -- in twenty minutes; so get everybody togeti in one room!" Cemp completed his thought to the Silkies in their distant headquarters. Whereupon, he mentally persuaded Baxter, still objecting, literally to run to the nearest elevator. People turned and stared as the silvery Nijjan body and the human being ran along side by side. But Cemp was already explaining, already convincing the other. As a result, what authority could do, was done. A "down" elevator stopped on an emergency signal, picked them up and whisked them to the roof. A helijet, about to take off, was held back by a pre-emptive control tower command, and presently it was zooming across the rooftops of the huge buildings that made up the Silkie Foundation, soaring many degrees indeed away from its original destination. It zeroed in presently on the landing depot of the three-story building which had been assigned as a preliminary headquarters and which was more or less across town from the Tnaln Silkie community. During the flight, Cemp resumed has magnetic level communication. He told the receiving trio who the enemy was and explained, "Since I had no reaction to it in my Silkie form, I'm assuming that those of us bom on Earth do not have any old reflexes on the subject of Nijjans. But it seemed to me that the meteorite Silkies might." There was a long pause, and then another mind sent a thought on the mapietic beam. "This is I-Yun. All restrictions are temporarily off. Answer with any truth you have, anyone." The female Silkie's thought came first. "But it's so many generations ago!" she protested. "You believe we'll have an ancestral memory after such a long time?" Cemp replied, "If that's what it takes, I can only say I hope so, but -- " He hesitated. What was in his mind w-as even more fantastic. He had got the impression from the Glis that a number of really original Silkies were still around. His brief hesitation ended. He sent the thought. "You mean, like a hundred thousand years old?" came an astonished male Silkie response. "Maybe not that long," said Cemp. "In fact, I compute from feeling-thoughts I recorded that it's not more than ten thousand years since the Glis attached the Silkies to him. But anywhere from five to ten thousand, yes." T here was a pause. Then the thought came: "What do you expect such a Silkie to do? Defeat a Nijjan? Remember, our understanding is that we Silkies were the ones who were defeated and decimated. And, besides, how will we find the old ones? No one remembers anything like that far back; the Glis with its memory-erasing techniques saw to that. Do you have a method of stimulating such ancient reflexes?" Cemp, wiho indeed had the perfect, practicable method, wanted to IF know how many Silkies were in the building this very moment "Oh, about a hundred." That was I-Yun. It seemed a sizable cross-seotion. Cemp wanted to know if they were all together as he had requested. "No, but we'll get them here if you wish." Cemp very much wished. "And quick!" he urged. "I swear to you that there's no time to waste." Presently, Cemp sent another magnetic level message, "Mr. Baxter and I are now landing on the roof. We shall be down lin the big room in about one minute." During that minute he sent streams of thoughts down to the group, explaining his analysis. The decisive question was: Since the Silkies had indeed been decimated in the long ago by the Nijjans, how come a few had survived? Why had not all Silkies been exterminated? What survival method had kept a few alive? Since the survivors, or their descendants, were the only Silkie available, the answer must be buried deep in their unconscious minds, or else be available by stimulation of anCemp and Baxter emerged from their elevator and started along a corridor toward a large green door. At this penultimate moment, IYun's thought showed a qualm. "Mr. Cemp," he telepathed uneasily, "we have cooperated with you more than we intended to cooperate with anyone on Earth. But I tMnk we should know before we go any further what to expect next" . At that point, Baxter opened the green door for Cemp, and Cemp walked into the big room. Cemp was aware of Baxter returning along the corridor, running at top speed -- his retreat was actually protected by an energy screen that Cemp put up at the moment he went through the door. But the agreement was that Baxter would get out of the way, so that Cemp would not have to devote attention to his defense. The reason Baxter had come this far was that he wanted to see the room where the space Silkies were waiting. With that much pre-visualization, he could get the rest by way of the telepathic channel Cemp left open for him. In an emergency his experience might be useful; that was the thought... A t that instant of entry the scene that spread before Cemp was of many men and women, sitting or standing. His Nijjan body had visual awareness to either side, and so he also noticed that four Silkie shapes "floated" near the ceiling on both sides of the door. Guards? He presumed so. Cemp accepted their presence as a normal precaution. His own quick defense against them was to put up a magnetic signal system which, when triggered by any dangerous force, would automatically set up a screen. The majority of the occupants of the big room were not a prepossessing lot, for the human shape was not easy for these space Silkies. But human-like they were. And, as Cemp entered, they naturally focused their gazes on him. Every pair of eyes at the exact same moment saw e silvery glittering body of a Nijjan. How many individuals were present Cemp did not know or count, then or later. But there was an audible tearing sound as all over the room clothes ripped, threads parted and cloth literally shredded. The sound was the result of a simultaneous transformation by the majority from human to Silkie. About a dozen people, eight of them women, merely gasped and made no effort to change. Three individuals turned into Nijjans. # H aving become so, they instantly scattered. They ran off in three directions and came to a halt each in a separate comer; they did not actually leave the room. Cemp waited, tense, all receptors recording; not knowing what more to expect. This was what he had hoped for; and here, in all its potentiality, it was. Three. Almost incredibly, three out of a hundred or so had respKDnded with -- what? He wanted very much to believe that theirs was an age-old reflex that operated in the presence of Nijjans. Could it be that the defense against a Nijjan was -- to become a Nijjan? It seemed almost too elementary. Raised numerous questions. Cemp received a thought from Baxter: "Nat, do you i think the old Silkies of long ago might have been killed one by one because they were surprised and couldn't turn Nijjan quickly enough?" It seemed reasonable. The lag, always that lag in the transmorpha system, had been a dangerous few moments for Silkies. But the question remained: After turning into Nijjans, what did they know? And what could they do against real Nijjans? Out of the darkness of unknown numbers of miJlenia, from somewhere below the mist of forgetfulness, created by the Glis in its effort at total control, had now come a response. Like a pure light carrying images as from a projector, it shone from that far distant time into the here and now. Was there more to those images than appeared on the surface? More than the transformation itself? The swift seconds ran their courses, and Cemp got nothing more, nothing special. Baxter's anxious mind must have registered Cemp's developing disappointment, for his thought came, "Isn't there some association they've got with the changeover? Some reason for why the transformation was successful?" Cemp took that thought, made it his own, transferred it to a magnetic wave and sent it on to the three Silkie-Nijjans. With that, he got his first nonautomatic response. Said one, "You IF want my moment by moment reactions? Well, the reflex that was triggered had only on oniinary transmorplha lag. I estimate no more than seven Earth seconds was what the changeover required. While waiting for the change, and immediately after, my impulse was to escape. But of course I only ran a few yards and then recognized that you were not a true Nijjan. At which moment of awareness I stopped my flight There followed intense anxiety -- memories, obviously, since I had no reason to feel any of that here. But that's it." Cemp asked quickly, "You had no impulse to use any attack or defense energies?" "No. It was just change and get out of there." One of the remaining two Nijjan-Silkies was able to add only a single new thought. "I had the conviction," he said, "that one of us was doomed. And I felt sad and wondered who it would be this time." "But there was nothing," Cemp persisted, "about how one of you would be killed? And I presume no awareness of the means by which the Nijjan had suddenly appeared in your midst without advance warning?" "Nothing at ail," answered the three in unison. Baxfter"s third diought intruded, "Nat, we'd better get back to the computer." En route, Baxter made another, more far reaching decision. From him, preceded by a private emergency code -- known for its extreme meaning only to its recipients -- there was mentally projected by way of a general alarm system in the Silkie Foundation, a warning message to "all Silkies on Earth and all Special People -- " Slightly more than six thousand persons received it. In the warning Baxter described the Nijjan danger and the only solution so far analyzed for Silkies: change to Nijjan and scatter! Having completed his own message, Baxter introduced Cemp who broadcast, for Silkies only, the Nijjan image. S hortly after, Baxter and Cemp completed their trip to the computer, which said, "Though this neiw data gives no additional clue to the space control methods of the Nijjans, we can now view the nature of the battle by which the old Silkie nation was gradually decdmated. The method was a cautious, neverialtered system of onejy-one exterminatioia." The computer thought it initeresting that even the higher type Nijjan (female N'Yata, had not mlade a serious attempt to kill Cemp white he was in his Nijjan form. Listening to the analysis, Cemp was plunged into gloom. It was dear now that, first, the Glis molecule, and then his small use of Logic of Levels on betrayal had saved him in his first two encounters. He thought bknMy: What could be the nature of space that man or Silkie had never even dreamed of it? Nothing to something to nothing --  and that sligjhtly caved-in, ooliapsed body of Lan Jedd. Those were the only dues. "Space," said the computer in answer to Cemp's question, "is considered to be an orderly, neutral Viasitness, wherein energy and matter masses may interact according to a laiTge but finite number of rules. The distances of space are so enormous that life has (had an opportunity to evolve at leisure in innumerable chance ways on a large but finite number of planets on which, accidentally -- it is presumed -- suitable conditions developed." The definition deepened Cemp's gloom. It seemed like truth. Yet, if it were Hterally so, then how could the Nijjan have spanned those enormous distances apparently in no time at all? One or more of the assumptions needed to be modified. Or so it seemed. C emp said unhappily, "We've got to remember we're looking at an evolved universe. Perhaps, in its younger days, space was less -- what did you say? -- neutral. The speculative question arises, what might an unordorly space have been like?" "This is something that can be learned, now that Logic of Levels is applicable." "Eh!" That was Baxter, astounded. "Logic of Levels will work here? How?" "Consider!" said the computer. "A command to operate the spacecontrol areas will have to come from the central self of a Nijjan. Our problem is that we don't know what that command is. But some kind of thought stimulates it. Once stimulated a basic action response occurs. Naturally, somebody will have to force a dangerous confrontation in order to trigger such a cycle." Cemp said quickly, "Do you still have the feeling that what we might trigger is bigger than what happened to the Glis? And more basic?" "Definitely." "But -- baffled -- "what could be bigger than an apparently small object -- like the Glis -- expanding into the largest sun in the known universe?" "This is something you wiU discover. I presume you are the one who will discover it." Cemp, who (hadn't thought about it, presumed instantly that he would indeed be the one. Thinking thus, feeling the irony but resigned nonetheless, Cemp transifarmed to his Sdikiiie body. He expected that he would immediately perceive the distant tug on all his cells. But there was nothing. No awareness in him of a faraway segment of space. He had not the f aintest sense of being unbalanced at some deep level. His entire body was at peace and in a state of eqmlibrium with his surroundinigs. Cemp reported the situation to Baxter -- and then warily transformed to human. But there was no distant pull on him in that state either. A few minutes later the computer expressed what was already obvious, "They're taking no chances. They never did with Silkies. You'll have to seek them out... or else he exterminated one by one, now that they have found you." From the comer of Ibis eye, Cemp IF noticed Baxter as that analysis came through. The man's face had a strange look: sort of hypnotic, sort of iniwardurning... Cemp was quick. He grabbed the man and yelled, "What's the thought? What command is being given?" Baxter twisted weakly in that iron grip, abruptly stopped his resisting and whispered, "The message I'm getting is absolutely ridiculous. I refuse!" T he doorbell rang with a soft, musical note. Joanne Cemp stopped what she was doing in the kitchen and thought: The time has come for revelation. The night of no-memory is over. Having had the thought, casually, as if it were an ordinary concept, she headed for the door. And it was then that she simultaneously realized two things. The shock of each of the two brought a reaction of an intensity that she ihad not previously experienced in her entire life. The first realization was: Night of no-memory!... Revelation!... Why, that's crazy! Where would I get an idea like that? The second realization was that she was getting no thoughts from whoever had rung the doorbell. She felt a chih. She, who could read minds better even than her Sdkie husband by the direct telepathic method, she was receiving no thoughts. It had always been a point of wonder that the Special People were so great in this area of mind reading: something about a uiniquo of a few human beings, that was not duplicated in other humans or in Silkies. But even that uncanny ability sensed no presence at the door. Nothing. Not a sound. Not a thought. Not a sign of another mind or being. Joanne veered down the hall and into her bedroom and secured her gun. That was pretty weak stuff against what she now suddenly suspected might be a space Silkie woman making a second visitation. But the first Silkie woman had not been mentally silent. Still, against a human the gun would be effective, particularly as she had no intention of opening the door. A moment later, Joanne turned on the closed-circuit TV and found herself gazing at -- nothing. S he had the thought: The bell was rung from a distance, from many light-years away, to tell you that someone will come. You have done your duty. The painful laiboratory change from Nijjan to human will now be reversed... Unfiortiunate that Nijj,ans have had no natural way of transforming from one shape to another. However, by changing shape in this difficult way you were enabled to marry on Earth Sdhde. By so doing you have lulled him and understood him; and now that the space Silkies have finally revealed themselves, we can finally decide what to do with this dangerous race. And what you and tthe other Special People have done will determine the fate of the universe endangerers. Joanne frowned at the message -- for that was how she thought of it -- ibuit she made no answer. She simply stood there, silent and disturbed. What kind of nonsensel # The thought went on: You are skeptical, no doubt, but it will soon be proved. You may now ask any questions you wish. After many heartbeats, during which Joanne considered, remembered, decided, she still refused to reply. She saw the message as a trap, a lie, an attempt to locate her if she replied. Actually, even if it were true, it didn't matter. Her involvement on Barth was total. She thought to herself: This is the final SilkieNijjan confrontation, and it's all a bunch of Nijjan madness. She didn't have to accept such a solution, no matter if her own background were Nijjan. During all these intense moments, Joanne had kept her own thoughts out of the itelepathic band. Yet the fear was already in her, the realization that this message, or a variation of it, was probably being received by all forty-seven'hundred-odd of the Special People on Earth. And the fear which almost petrified her was that among these numerous persons somebody would be foolish, somebody would answer. The awful conviction came that any reply would mean disaster for everybody. Because all of the Special People without exception knew so much that was ibasic about Silkies. Even as she had the anxiety, somebody did answer. Two women and three men almost shnultaneously projected their outraged replies. Joanne received every nuance of the emotion that accompanied each unwise reply: Said one: "But many of the Special People have died in the past two hundred years -- " A second chimed in, "So they can't be immortal Nijjans." A third mind said, "If what you say is true, it proves that Siloes and Nijjans could live together." The fourth person -- a man -- was scornful: "This time you crazy killers have run up against more than you bargained for.' And the fifth telepathic human reply to the Nijjan trap was, "I don't know what you expect to gain from this lie, but I reject it." T hat was as far as the doomed five got with their response. The best later reconstruction of what happened then was that in each instance, answering located the individual to the remote watching minds of the Nijjans. At once a Nijpan arrived on the scene -- in the house, on the street, wherever -- and seized the person. At the moment of seizure a single mental scream of despairing realization came from one of the women. The remaining four went silently to their fates. What had happened: shortly after the Space Silkie, Ou-Dan, left Cemp in the ship near the dead body of Lan Jedd -- he saw a rapid movement beside him. That was all Ou-Dan had time to observe. The next split-instant he was subjected to an internal pressure IF against wMch li hiad no defense. It could have been his moment of death, for he wias completely surprised and helpless. But the Nijjan, G'Tono, have already had his double faihire with Nat Cemp, wanted a prisoner and not a dead body. Not yet. Moments later, he had the unconscdous Ou-Dan on hiis own planet. The resultant study of the internal working of a Silkie was somewhat disappointing to the various Nijjans who came from disfbant place to look him over: there was nothing in Ou-Dan's memories that explained how Cemp had escaped destruction in his confronitaition with G'Tono. His captors quickly discovered the differences between the space and Earth Silkies and leaimed from OuDan that Cemp was an Earth Silkie. The Nijjans thereupon reasoned accurately that the Space SUdes, being considered unreliable, had simply never been given the secret of the special technique that Cemp had used. In .their study of Ou-Dan, the great beings were delayed for many minutes, perhaps even an entire hour by an attitude that radiated from him. Ou-Dan so thoroughly dismissed and downrated the humanSiHcie relaitionship that his emotion about it was a barrier. Thus, for a decisive itime, the Nijjans did not note in his mind ithat the Special People were a unique human group. During that vital period, Baxter extended the information about the Nijjans to the Special People, Cemp and he met with the Space Silkies and talked to the computeir. And so, when the five Special People were captured, Earth was as ready as Earth would ever be. The Nijjans secured the basic clue from .all five of their human prisoners. Moments later, the knowledge of Logic of Levels was going down the Nijjan line of planets, muMIX O n G'Tono's planet was a tall mountain that rose thousands of feet sheer from the 'ground. On top of ithat mountain stood the palace of G'Tono. Inside the throne room, the octopus-people hurried and bustled and shuffled in a steady stream of activity, partly ritual and partly m relation to the five human prisoners and to the Space SiDde, Ou-Dan. The quintet of Special People were beginning to fed a little easier; were no longer so certain tihat they would be murdered out of hand. Ou-Dan, who had been internally damaiged as a result of his interrogation, lay unconscious in one comer, ignored by all except a few guards. Across the room from the humans -- a distance of more than a hundred yards -- was a great, Ottering throne chair. On the chair sat a figure even more glittery in his natural state than any of the inanimate objects that framl him -- ... G'Tono himself! About a dozen of the octopuspeople lay face down on the marble in front of their tyrant. Their gentle buibuous faces pressed against the hard floor. It was a priceless privilege for itinose who were ithere, and every half hxmr the dozen or so personages rduotantly gave up their places to another group of the same size, all of whom were equally appreciative. G'Tono paid no attention to these, his servant-people. He was engaged in a mental oonversation with N'Yata, # light-years away, and the subject of their concern was in fact ithe fate of the prisoners. G'Tono believed that the five Special People and Ou-Dan had served their purpose land should be put to death on the betray principle. N'Yata felt that no Anal decision should be made about prisoners until the Earth-Silkie situation was entirely resolved, which could only happen if all the Silkies were destroyed. She pointed out that the betray idea did not apply except where it was part of a control system. No control existed as yet to human beings and would not until a Nijjan took over Barth 'as his domain. G 'Tono was beginning to fed very boldly masouHne in relation to N'Yata. And so he took the attitude that her answer showed a loveable feminine weakness, a caution unnecessary now that the human-Silkie problem was solved. For all Nijjan purposes, the proourement of the Logic of Leyels concept ended the danger. "You seem to believe that something can still go wrong," he protested. "Let's wait," said N'Yata. G'Tono replied scathingly that NijIF jans, after all, had itiheir own rationreally favorable to our side." He ality, long-tested by experience. It booke off for purposes of olarifying was not necessary to aiwaiit the ouit his point:. "How many helpers do come of a logicM sequence once it we have?" had been reasoned through "You saw most of them," N'Yata He thereupon listed for N'Yata answered. "About a hundred." the reasons why the SilMes were The smallness of the number modefeated for all practiical purposes: mentarily gave pause to GTono. He Nijjan attacks -- said GTono -- had a natural cynicism about things would in future be made in such a Nijjan; yet his rationali#oa seemed way that no Silkie could ever again true to him... It was true that hitch a ride as the Silkie, Cemp, Nijjans had a hard time getting along had so skillfully done. Furthermore, with one another. So many proud the vast majority of Nijjans, though individuals, each with his planet -- aiUowing through their mindbarriers of which he, or she, was absolute the information about Logic of ruler. Where everyone, without exLevels, had fortunately refused to ception, was a king or a queen, egos be involved in the actual struggle, had a tendency to soar out of sight. GTono explained, "Contrary to Once in a while, of course, a queen our initial irritation with their rewould accept a oommunication from fusal to participate, what they have a king, as N'Yata had done with done -- or rather, not done -- is him. And at certain times kings were receptive to a oamimtmcaitLoa from a queen. G'Tono liad observed witii jealousy that ithe biimdred-odd who had responded to N'Yaita's oaM for volunteers were all males... B ut that very aloofness of the great majority was now, G'Tono argued, a sign of the indestructibility of the Nijjan race. Scattered all over the universe, out of contact with their own kind, individuai Nijjans an their total numbers couldn't even assuming that somebody existed withthe atodiity and power to kill Nijjan-s; but there was no such person, group or race. "And now that we have the only dangerous Silkie weapon, Logic of Levels, our position is albsolutely impregnable," G'Tono pointed out. N'Yata replied that she was still studying Log of Levels and that it wasn't the mistakes Nijjans might make in the future that worried her; indeed, she conceded that the chance of additional errors was unlikely. The question was, could GTono and she recover from the errors that had already been made? G'Tono was astohkhed. "The only mistake that would matter," he ol jected, "wouM be if we had left this Silkier Cemp, some nieans of forcing me or you to 'transport him here by our space control system. Though I," he oontinued scornfuliy, "would certainly like to be the first to know of such a method, I find myself wondering, would he dare to oomie? Because whiat could he do in a direct conontation with me, who is more poyerful than any Sillde?" He had been i thinkikig hard while he was speaking, and now he saw an opening in her logic and a way ofgaininig his own point, made earlier. "As I see it," he said, "the one way in which we might be vulnerable is through these prisoners. So I think you wiMagree that instant extermination is a safety precaution, if nothing more. Don'ttry to interfere!" He did not wait for N'Yata's reply, but sent a high-level energy blast at the two women and ithree men, and at the hdpess Ou-Dan. All six prisoners were literally dissolved into their component elements; death was as rapid as that. Having taken the action, G'Tono proceeded with his hsting of favorable points. "After all," he said, "lacking space controil, Silkies are trapped on or near Earth or at besit are subject to the slow speeds of ordinary space travel. I estimate that in three Earth weeks I could perhaps expect to have an Earth ship arrive at my planet. Whereupon, if you were to invite me, I could visit you for a whale. And, frankly, what could they do? Where couldthey look? A Nijjan can disappear into a distance in a splitrinstant." He stopped, feeling suddenly dizzy. N'Yata telepathed sharply, "What's happening?" "I -- " faltered G'Tono. That was as far as he got. The dizziness had become an all-enveloping madness, and he fell from this throne chair to the marble floor. Fell hard, rolled over onto his back an# lay there like one dead. IF X T he Nijjans had lied. That was what snatched Oemp's most intense interest. A quick check of records by the computer had established, with thousands of detailed documentations, that the Special People could not possibly have been Nijjans. And so it was a lie. Hard to believe that the Nijjans could have exposed one of their mrniber to a counter-attack on that level. But it looked as if they had. Cemp shared his analysis with Charley Baxter and watched Baxter become excited. The thin man said, "You're right, Nat! A lie is a complete disaster in a world where people understand the energy flows involved." And could control them as Silkies could. Because an existing object is truth incarnate. There it is -- whatever it is -- unparadoxical, without an opposite. It cannot not-be. Or at least it cannot not-have-been; if it was matter and has been converted to energy, or vice versa, it still exists in some aspect of its ever-form. A lie about such an object is a mental attempt to alter the "is" of it. Basdally, the effort implicit in the lie is to create a dichotomy where none can exist. There is no opposite, yet the lie says there is. Hence, the moment a dichotomy is evoked in somebody's mind, there is a confusion created. It was too potentially great a possibility to miss. In telling his plan to Baxter, Cemp pointed out, "You'll have to send a ship after me, because I'll be stranded there!" "You don't think the method of getting you to Nijja will also get you away?" Baxter asked, doubtfully"No. Somebody will ibe riding herd on all this, and they'll notice." "It'll take three weeks for a ship to get there," Baxter objected. Cemp couldn't take the time to consider that. The pace of this battle was super-speed. Since (the struggle had begun out there between G'Tono and himself, the enemy had taken time only to make bri studies of new data before striking again. "After all," said Cemp, "I can't be sure how successful I'll be. I expect (to get whoever told the lie, but that won't solve the problem. And I'll set it up so that whoever helps him is doomed also. But a chain reaction like 'that can only go so far before somebody gets wise." Baxter spoke again, urgently, "Now that these beings have Logic of Levels, they'll be able to trigger it in you even as you're triggering it in them. Have you thought of that?" S ince there was no defense against Logic of Levels, Cemp hadn't even considered it. There being no point in thinking about it, now that it had been called to his attention... he didn't. He converted to Nijjain and piojected the thought: "I want you to recall the moment when the message arrived telling you the lie that you were a Nijjan." Between such expexits as Baxter and himself, it required less tham a minute to make a study of the wave patterns and to measure the subtle variations of the Nijjan version of the telepathic band of the Special People -- and to superimpose on that exact band and ithat individual variation all two hundred and seventy-eight dichotomies, known to be the most confusing of the verbal opposites that had mentally tangled human beings since the beginning of language:... Right-wrong... good-bad... justice-injustice A living brain receiving for the first time such a madness in ithe time of a few seconds could go into a state of itotal confusion. At key points along that train of words, Cemp placed large, hypnotictype command loads designed to influence the receiving Nijjan brain during the confusion to -- First, utilize Cemp's own previous experience to transport hiTn through space. And, second, set up a basic Logic of Levels in the receiving Nijjan brain. Oemp arrived -- it was part of his hypnotic command to GTono -- outsit the atmosphere of G'Tono's planet. As he descended toward the surface, he saw that there was a great city below and a huge ocean beside it. He landed on an isolated beach of that ocean where the thunder of the surf and the soaxeill of sea briefly enticed him. Ignoring that sudden desire for the feel of water, he walked toward the city. Arrived at the outskirts, he boldly entered the first of the odd-shaped dwellings he came to; odd in that the doorways were low and broad, and, inside he had to stoop 'because the ceilings were less than' six feet. There were three chunky octopus-like aliens inside. But he saw them; they never saw him. Cemp manipulated the hallucinatory mechanisms of the three, whereupon they observed him as one of themselves. After studying their minds, Cemp carefully went to a nearby street, climbed up to a roof, and watched the octopus-beings who went by. As Cemp had already correctly analyzed, these aliens were not dangerous to him, and they were very definitely not up to defending themselves. After reading the minds of several hundreds, Cemp did not detect a single suspicious thought. The fundamental goodness of the beings he did observe decided him on his next move. Minutes later, he walked in on several leading members of the government, hallucinated them into seeing him as a human being and thout at them, "Where is the one who can betray?" The tense creatures had drawn aiway from him. They did not understand (the signifioanoe of his question, for they said that on Nijja no one ever betrayed anyone. T he answer amused Cemp in a steely-grim fashion. It meant, as he had suspected, that there was only one betray cycle in action on IF the eotire planet: the true Nijjan as the betrayer, and then ah these beings who must conform. He directed another thought "Has this planet always been called Nijja?" They knew of only one other name. Anthropological studies of their antiquity indicated that at the time the common language had begun some indeternoinate thousands of years before, the name had been Thda, meaning Home of the Brave. Nijj-a, on the other hand, in their language meant Home of the Pure. Obviously, the name would have to have a meaning in their language as well as in that of the true Nijjans. A different meaning, of course. "I see," said Cemp. And he did see. With that, he asked one more question, "Where can I find the one who requires purity?" "Oh, you can see him only through the police." "Where else?" thought Cemp to himself, sarcastically. Whereupon, the exact, proper time having gone by, and the' exact moment for G'Tono to awaken having come, he directed a thought on the Special People telepathic band. He said, "I am that Silkie who confronted you after you killed my Sdlkie associate -- and I'm sure now it was you who killed him. As I now understand it, this planet illustrates what you meant when you stated Nijjans had no home planet in the ordinary sense. # planets controlled by a Nijjan are part of the Nijjan system -- the nearest place, in other words, where a sine ruling Nijjan could te located. Is that correct?" Along with the message, Cemp projected the thought that woul# trigger the Logic of Levels cycle he had set up in G'Tono's brain. Having done so, Cemp spoke again to the focal point nearly three hundred miles away, "You'd better talk to me before it's too late." It was moments after that when Cemp sensed a peculiar sensation in his transmorpha system. N'Yata, he thou'ght. He remembered Baxter's fear that he also might be attacked, and here it was. It interested him intensely to observe that it was the mechanism for chaniginig form that was affected; not surprising, really, but nobody had known. By the time he had th thought, he had already accepted his personal dislaster. Prom the beiginning he had had to consider himself expendable. Cemp felt briefly sad for Joanna. He presumed that he would die, and her life would now have to go on without ihim. As for what might happen to the Nijjans -- Cemp felt a chill, recalling what the computer had predicted: that the Nijjans Logic of Levels would be bigger than what had happened to the Glis. Again he wondered: What could be bigger than that? The awareness remained with him only fleetingly. Abruptly, he didn't have time to consider anything except what was happening to him. XI F or Cemp there was, first of ah, a a kaleidoscope of visual images. He saw Nijjan bodies and faces -- if the upper part of the pyramidal shape could be considered a face. The images streamed by, not exactly silently -- for thoughts came from some of them. Cemp himself seemed to be floating along in a timeless void. Each set of Nijjan thoughts came to him separate and distinct: "... But how did he do it?..." "What exactly is happening? -- " not kill him and then solve the problem, ourselves?... " -- Because we don't even know what part of the Nijjan brain was utilized for the attacl that's why. Besides, we have no proof yet that we can kill him. In this Silkie, Logic of Levels seems to be a time phenomenon. In us, it's of course the space thing -- " As these thoughts and others like them whispered into Cemp's awareness, he was conscious of a developing stir in ithe greater distance of the Nijjan world. Other minds, at first a few, then many, then tens of thousands turned their attention in amazement and took note of him and had their thoughts... and were hooked into G'Tono's disaster... Like an anthill deep into which somebody has kicked, the Nijjan system began to roil and churn with innumerable reactions. What they were afraid of briefly held Cemp's astonished interest: -- Two bodies cannot occupy the same space or... two spaces the same body; there was danger that this would now happen. More basic: the space-time continuum, though it was a self-sustaining mechanism of immense but finite complioation, needed Nijjans to survive: that was the thout So that if a Nijjan were over-stimiulaited, space mig ihave a reaction... That was how Lan Jedd had been killed: a Nijjan oonsdously over-stimulating jhimjceilf ia some small, precise way elicited a reaction in the space occupied by Lan's body. Push at the universe, at space. A Nijjan might be affected. Push at a Nijjan, the universe would push back or adjust to the push in some fundamental way. What are they implying? thought Cemp, staggered. What are they saying? Between the universe and the Nijjans a symbiotic relation. If one was unstable, so was the other. And the Nijjans were becoming unstable. A s Cemp's awareness reached that point, there was a flash of alarmed agreement that extended through every observing Nijjan mind. Whereupon, N'Yata telepathed to Cemp: "I speak for Nijja. We're in process of being destroyed by a chain reaction. Is tiiCTc anything we can do to save ourselves, any agreement we can make? "In us," N'Yata continued in that desperate way, "awareness of the connection of Mfe to all atoms in the universe was not dulled. Somehow, in those long ago days of the beginning of things, we automatically worked out a method of maintaining consciousness without constantly endangering ourselves. Other life forms had to attenuate or shut off direct IF contact with space and its contents. We Nijjans can therefore be destroyed if we are forced to a state of order from the chaos in which, alone, life can survive, and this forcing you have now done." It was as far-fetched a story as Cemp had ever heard. "You're a bunch of liars," he said contemptuously, "and the proof is that G'Tono could be victimized by an overflow of opposites." He broke off, "The truth is I couldn't believe any promise you made." There was a pause, brief but pregnant; finally a mental sigh from N'Yata. "It is interesting," she said, resigned, "that the one race we feared above all others -- the Silkies -- has now made a successful attack on us. Because of the overweening pride of countless Nijjans, we are particularly vulnerable. Each Nijjan, as he tunes in, has a Logic of Levels cycle triggered in him. And there's nothing we can do to warn him ahead of time. What you're saying is that you won't listen to any argument against this." It was more than that, Cemp saw. Between these two races there was no quick way to cooperation. That would be true, he speculatively realized, even if the fate of the universe depended on it. The Nijjan destruction of Silkies had been too remorseless. But the fact was also, there was really nothing he could do. Logic of Levels, once started, could not be interrupted. The cycle would complete in them and in him and take whatever course the logic required. A brain mechanism had been tnggered. The pattern of that mechanism had been set ages before, and it had no other way to be. That was as far as his thought had time to go. There was an interruption. Two things happened, then, almost simultaneously. From N'Yata's mind to his there leaped an emotion of anguish. "Oh, it's happening," she said. "What's happening?" Cemp's mind yelled at her. If there was ever an answer from her, Cemp did not receive it. For at that precise instance he felt a strange, strong feehng inside him. That was the second event. H e was on Earth with Joanna. It was at the beginning of their marriage; and there she was, and there he was, completely real both of them. Outside, the sun was shining. It grew dark suddenly. That was earlier, he realized. More than a hundred years before he was born. -- This is the time change in myself, Cemp thought. Logic of Levels affecting him, taking him somehow earlier intime, a kind of genetic memory journey. Night. A dark sky. A Silkie floated silently down from the heavens... Cemp realized with a start: That was the first Silkie to come to Earth, the one that -- it was later pretended -- was created in a laboratory. The scene, so briefly observed, yielded to a view of the city inside the Glis meteorite. There were the Space Silkies; and he was there, also -- or so it seemed. Probably, it was his ancestor with his transory of earlier bodies. A space scene came next. A bluewhiite sun in the distance. Other Silkies around him in the darkness. A contented happiness was in all of them. Cemp had an impression that the time was long ago indeed, twenty or more thousand Earth-years, before contact with Nijjans. Now, a more primitive scene according to ihis impression. Something -- himself, but different, smaller, less intelligent, more creaturelike -- clung to a small rock in space. There was darkness. And not darkness but brightness. Where? Impossible to be sure. Inside a sun? He vaguely suspected, yes. It was too hot. He was flung in a titanic eruption of matter into the far blackness. Flung earlier. As he receded to an even remoter time, Cemp fdt himself somehow still connected to GTono and to the other Nijjans, somehow held to what -- for want of a better understanding -- he decided was a mental relationship. Because of that tenuous mind connection and interaction, he was able to sense the Nijjan disaster from a safe distance in time. It was possible, then, that he was the only MvLng being who, from his vantage point, witnessed the destrucdiameter universe, of which Earth's galaxy was but one small bit of cosmic flitter. T he start of it was very similar to when the betrayal-win cycle in G'Tono was triggered toward ultimate win during his and Cemp's second confrontation. Swiftly, there came the momeint when all those connected Nijjan bodies reached the dividing line between becoming ultra-small or superlarge. But this time ithe victims had no choice. Winning was not involved. It was a Lxgic of Levels cycle in its ultimate meaning, operating on and through innumerable individuals, each of whom had the potential for that ultimate state. Every rock has in it the history of the universe. Every life form has evolved from a primitive state to a sophisticated one. Touch the wellspring of that evolvement in a living thing -- or a rock -- and it has to remember. the end. What was happening to them was a process that was not concerned with maintaining identity. One moment each Nijjan was a unit object, a living being, with location and mass; the next the Nijjan brain center that had the ability to move the individual Nijjan through space tried to move him simultaneously into all spaces. Instantly, the entire Nijjan race was shredded into their component atoms. IF On the object level, the process scattered them, put one atom here, as many places. At the moment when Nijjans became as large as the universe, the universe inverted in relation to them to its real normalcy, to the perfect order that is inherent in a dot the size of an atom, which is unaffected by other atoms. It was not a shrinking phenomenon. Turning inside out was the best analogy. The collapse of a bubble. Cemp, who was merely tuned in to G'Tono and the others, felt his own thought expand with the doomed Nijjans to a state that was an exact propKrtion to the largeness of the universe with which the Nijjans had interacted. Having become in this purely mental way larger than space and time, Cemp so to say blinked away his dizziness and looked around him. At once he saw something in the great dark. He was distracted and he forgot the dot that had been the universe. It thereupon disappeared. The tiny spot of light, the universe, which one moment had glowand was gone. Cemp was aware of its vanishing with a portion of his mind only. But he could not immediately turn his attention away from the sight that had made him forget. He was looking at the "tree." He was at such a remote viewpoint, at such vastness in relation to all things that, yes, he saw the golden tree. Presently, he forced himself to look away from that jeweled thing. When Cemp finally, after what seemed to be several seconds, was able to consider the disappearance of the universe once more, he thought: how long has it been gone? years? Or no time at all? Perhaps, in some future when he reached this viewpoint, not by artificial projection but by growth, he would be able to count the time elapsed in such a phenomenon. He was stiH thinking about it, bemused, when he felt an unstableness in his position. He thought, Oh, oh. I'm going to invert again. The first evidence of his unstable state: the glorious tree disappeared. Realization came that he probably had only moments to find the universe. How do you find a universe? A s Cemp discovered, then, it was not really a problem. The entire meaning of Logic of Levels was based on the certainty that all life forms, at some inner root, know the origin of things, and that by the very nature of their structure they are balancing themselves against aU other things. There is no moment when the tiniest insect, or plant, or rock, or grain of sand is not interacting. The atoms at the centers of remote stars are part of that interaction. The problem is not is the interaction happening? The problem is that, in order to function, awareness of so much has had to be reduced. Such attenuation is not normally conscious. Hence, sensitivity to many good things is automatically cut down so close to zero that, in this universe, apparently only the Nijjans had retained through  the vicissitudes of their evolution the cellular method of space and control. As Cemp remembered his universe it began to interact with him, to become in essence what he knew it to be. And there it suddenly was, a dot of golden brightness. Cemp sensed by the interaction he continued to feel that it was still re-forming deep inside itself; responding exactly to his universal memory of it. He had a mighty thought: Before it all reverts to exactly the way it was, why don't I change it? Obviously, there was no time for detailed consideration. A few flash thoughts, quick judgments, snap decisions -- and that would be it. It was never or now. Forever. The Nijjans? In a way, he could understand that they had felt it necessary to protect themselves and the spacetime continuum by destroying races that were capable of challenging Nijjan hegemony. So they were not as guilty as he had once considered them. But truth was the universe did not need a race that could destroy it. It was time the place became permanent. Cemp refused to remember the Nijjans in his recollection of the plenum. So what about human beings, the Special People and the Space Silkies? . Cemp's immediate solution: In his imiverse (they all became Earth Silkies with the ability to change ness to play a benevolent police role everywhere in space. And, without exception, they understood the Nijjan method of space control but their ability to interact with space was on the small scale necessary for transportation. In addition, no Silkies were subject to Logic of Levels, and all the effects of the cycle that had been triggered in him were reversed. Also, in case there was any question. Silkies were inunortal. There was no Kibmadine race -- Cemp felt no mercy for those perverted creatures. ,... And Earth was back with her own sun. W as it a good way for things to be? There was no one to tell him yea or nay. He thought it, and then it was too late to remember it differently. In a flash, the orderly perfection of the single light in the blackness... altered, expanded. As Cemp watched tensely, the ochre-colored dot reached the moment of inversion. For Cemp, it was the return back to smallness. Something grabbed him, did an irresistibly powerful thing with him, squeezed him -- and pushed. When he could perceive again, the starry universe fitretched around him in every direction. He realized he was somewhere in space, his Nijjan body intact IF For that super-sensiiitive shape and form, now that he undieirsitood iit, orientation in space was an instinct. Here he was; there was Earth. Cemp did the Nijjan space-control manipulation -- and interacted with another space many (light-years distant, whose existence he sensed. With that space Cemp did the inversion process on a small scale, became a dot, became himself, became a dot... something to nothing to something -- And he stepped eighty thousand light-years into the Silkie Foundation and said to Charley Baxter, "Don't bother sending that ship after me. I won't be needing it." The thin man gazed at him, eyes shining. "Nat," he breathed, "you've done it! You've won!" Cemp did not reply immediately. There was a question in his min Since, whale the universe was being destroyed and reborn, he himself had been in a time chanige, had he witnessed and participated in the second formation of the contmuum? Or the first? He realized it was a question to which he would now never know the answer. Besides... could it ah have been a fantasy, a wish that drifted through his mind while he was uncortscdous, the strangest dream ever? There was a great window to his right, one of those massive structures that led to a balcony from which a Silkie could launch himself. Cemp walked out onto the balcony. It was night. Barlih's old moon floated in the dark sky above, and there were the familiar star configurations that he knew so well. Standing there, Cemp began to feel excitement, a surginig consciousness of the permanence and finality of his victory. "I'm going to Joanna," he announced to Charley Baxter, who had oomeup behind him. As Cemp launched himsei the familiar universe that was he wa thinking: 'he had greiat tfiing pi to tell his darling. The Most Gripping Sfory in a Famous Series by Fred Saberhagen by Philip Jos# Farmer by Hal Clement Don't miss bipyepiber IF -- subscribe, or reserve your cqpy nowl IF  Feature Heroes what ancient Martians ate -- maybe -- with directions on how you can try it for yourselfl M ars is the planeft that is deemed most ilikely to support intelligent life. It has a canal system that has been seen many times all over the 'woorld by the most competent and respected observers in the astronomicaJ profession. Spectroscopic observations prove that the famed snow caps, or ice caps, at the poles of Mars are just that -- ice on Mars. Professor Percival Lowell's work shows .that in the spring, the rate of growth of the green areas adjacent to the canals is in perfect agreement with our theoretical calculations that indicate that their pumping rate for water is the most efficient one possible for a planet with Mars' smaller gravity content. The surface of Mars is flat, and there are few mountain ranges. Movement of water must, therefore, be by mechanical pump. Recent spectroscopic observations of the green areas of Mars show that the observed spectrum is more like the spectrum of lichen as observed here on Earth than any other Earth vegetation. Three or four blasts that looked like tiny bursts of light have been seen on Mars within the last thirty years. These blasts were followed by dust clouds that, in at least one case, were observed to persist for several days. This was long enough to permit e event to be confirmed by astronomical observatories all over the globe. In # a new green area about the size of Texas was observed. It was located in an area that had shown only desert before. At Mount Palomar in # Dr. Richardson momentarily observed blue canals in the desert regions of Mars. In other words, he saw the water in the canals. The careful mathematical analysis of the canals that WeUs Webb made shows almost conclusively that the canals are the work of intelligent beings. No other agency Darwin, iniblished by Max H. Fllndt, #I Emerson Street, Palo Alto, CzUifomia; reprinted by permission of the author. whether natural, animal, or insect has ever made a network of lines to comipare with the map of the canal systems of Mars -- except man. This, briefly, is what is known about Mars. A supposition will now be explored that can comfortably answer the question: Just what is going on on Mars? The most obvious answer is that someone, or something, is building canals on Mars for the purpose of conducting the water from the melting ice caps to the equatorial desert regions in the spring. There it seems to be used to irrigate crops of lichen. Lichen -- why lichen? Why not tomatoes or potatoes? Lichen, after all, is that odd stuff that grows on rocks and is of no value to anyone. H ere the story of Mars takes an unexpected turn, for there is reason to believe that lichen is grown on Mars as human food and that some of the forms grown there are a real delicacy. It is necessary to see what supportive data exists to substantiate these bold claims. First, it is found that lichen is not a common plant. It is aotuaiUy a fungus and algae living in common-laiw marriage and is an incredibly hardy and durable organism. It is found on rocks in mountain ranges at extreme elevations where it experiences extremes of cold, moisture and searing heat that is fatal to all other plant life. Thus, the strange combination of algae and fungus can stand such extremes of temperature and moisture variation that it could live on Mars. Here is found, os in any theory that is later proven valid by the advance of science, that classical agreement of observed phenomena that to the trained scientist means just one thing: "Ihe theory is correct; carry it forward." It is not surprising that when a U.S. scientist undertook to grow lichen it was in a partial vacuum that simuLated, as nearly as possible, the conditions that are understood to exist on Mars. The lichen grew and prospered. The astounding conditions under which this lichen grew should be examined. The temperature ranged from approximately -- # degrees F. to plus # degrees F., and the pressure was approximately one pound per square inch. (The pressure on Earth's surface is about # pounds per square inch). The only moisture was vapor in the form of dew. The oxygen was very low -- so low that man would die in it. Yet this lichen grew and seemed to thrive. There is a most happy agreement between the spectroscopic observations th'at indicate that there ore lichen#ike plant growths in the green aireas of Mars and the astounding ability of Earth-lichen to grow in a simulated Martian atmosphere. It is seemingly foolish to consider that human beings or any animal for that matter could be living on anything so little resembling good food as lichen. But it happens that this is exactly the case. Lichen is used for animal food here on Barth, and in Japan and China it is used as a food delicacy. The reason that thiiR is so is that the plant family that comprises lichen is actually a large one (# varieties). It takes in many unobtrusive plants that we commonly ignore. These are plants which nevertheless are lichens and which in certain regions lend themselves very nicely to the food demands of man and beast. In Lapland, for instance, reindeer moss -- which is a lichen that is known by the scientific name of Cladonia rangiferina -- is used in the winter for cattle and reindeer food. Another type of arctic lichen that is known as Iceland moss or Cetraria islandica is occasionally used as human food. In Japan and China people have made an art of fine cooking for more centuries than people in the Western World care to think about. Two varieties of a certain lichen family are used for food in those lands and they are considered to be real delicacies. If lichen is grown on Mars and our spectroscopes say that it or something yery much like it is grown there, then some of that lichen may easily be a variety or varieties that are usable for transformation into animal food like beef cattle. Other varieties may be the most delicious human food. This information is remarkable because it so neatly dovetails into what is already known to be (true about Mars canals, polar ice caps and green areas. Our astronauts may take along whatever they may hke to eat for the trip to Mars, but there is a definite chance that on Mars and on the trip home that they will be eating lichen by choice. T his whole lichen picture is so convincing that the author. completely carried away by the thought of eating Martian food, went out into the woods and procured some samples of Spanish Moss (Dendropogon usneoides), which is a common lichen in California. When it was steeped in vinegar it tasted like confetti or straw, but when it wias cooked for ten minutes in water with a little salt -- ah -- that was different. It tasted very much like spaghetti and thoughts of various types of savory and tempting combinations came immediately to mind. The addition of small bits of bacon would make the most delicious dish while those who preferred the rich and wonderful Italian spaghetti seasonings could brew up savory sauces. Well, each cook must find his own combination, for the author is, unfortunately, not a good cook. As a result of the happy outcome of the above little adventure in cooking lichen, the authorand his wife sallied forth to San Francisco on a beautiful autumn night. They hoped that in San Francisco's Chinatown, which is the largest Chinese settlement in the United States, that more information could be obtained regarding the lichen that is a delicacy. The trip was successful. Edible lichen was purchased on Grant Avenue in Chinatown. At the famed Great Eastern Cafe which is just off Grant, the manager gave assurances that, with proper advance notificaition, he could provide edible lichen in a variety of food combi naitions such as soup or fried dishes with pork. The price for serving this specialty to two persons was IF quoted ait about tbree doUars. The next day, the cxxperative and intelligent Chinese proprietor of "The Bamboo" in Palo Alto came up with the information that the two types of Mchen that could be purchased in San Francisco were known as "The Ear of the Wood" and "The Ear of the Rock." These highly descriptive names were literal English translations of the Chinese names for the delicacy. He further said that the strange thin doUarsized crispy fragments required long cooking time and did not disintegrate under protracted cooking. The lichen derived their names from the fact that one type was obtained from the trunks of trees whfle the other type was taken from the surface of rocks. The use of the word "ear" derives from the way the fresh plant curls up when it is dried. In strange ways it resembles a human ear. It seems more logical than ever before to believe that the canals of Mars do carry water and that the water nourishes lichen. Does any reader desire some Martian food? He need only inquire at the nearest Chinese restaurant about "The Ear of the Rock" or "The Ear of the Wood" and enjoy an "out of this Here is mus-ic composed on computer and transducers, ranging from computer-played versions of Christmas carols and rounds to the complex sounds that offer a new dimension in musicology. Composers include Dr. John R. Pierce, Dr. M. V. Mathews, David Lewin, James Tenny, etc. # selections on a #inch, high-fidelity, long-playing record produced by Decca. A "must" for your record library and a conversation piece for all occasions. Priced # postpaid -- send in the coupon today. Galaxy Publishing Corp #I Hudson Street, New York City # Tes, send me my #-inch hi-fi record of Music from Mathematics right away. I enclose check or money order for #. Name Address City  State... Zip Code  (OHsi good In U. S. A. Only) IF  Novelette Winter of the Liangs The first thing a young krote learns is to respect his Elders -- and it's a good thing! I were absent, he paced hesitantly toward the arc of huge mature males r ie Council Fire was a great roarout beyond the fire. Scarred old ing thing that climbed far into Lozh, immense with age, rumbled, the night, dwarfing the family fires "Come lie to windward of me, strung along the foot of the cliff, youngster. At least I am still good Its ruddy illumination made strange for a windbreak." There were coughs slowfalling gems of the unseasonof amusement, able snowflakes. Glesh, the Leader came slowly inChimmuh, young and not yet to the firelight, walking tiredly on thick of hide, would ordinarily tuck all sixes. The mutter of small talk his three pairs of limbs beneath him died. Glesh took his place, settled in the shelter of the slight cliff overhimsedf on the wet ground and turnhang, with the calves and females; ed his homed head slowly, counting but as his father and older brothers the family representatives. His widely spaced, deepset eyes lingered on Chimmuh. "You speak for Family Wurgan, youngster?" Chimmuh, conscious of his higherpitched voice, said, "I do." Glesh dipped his horns, acknowledging. "We are all here, then. I will talk, then we will listen to any who disagree." He heaved his forebody up for a moment, unfolding his forelegs out toward the fire. "Never in my lifetime, nor in my sire's, has snow come this early. But the lore says that when snow comes early, it is not a freakish storm, but the true onset of winter." He paused. The older males dipped heads in agreement. "Therefore," Glesh went on, "we must expect snow the rest of the night, and tomorrow eight, and for many nights. The passes back into Big Valley will be too difficult to cross. We must take the unfamiliar way down Katta river and southward along the edge of the sea to Wintering. It will be a hard migration. We dare not delay to collect fodder, but must live on what grows along the way. We must start in the morning." He glanced around the arc. "I will listen now." There was a moment of silence. Then Hutu -- the young-mature male with the broken right-middle leg -- muttered, "We should not have come across into Katta Valley." G lesh inclined his head without rancor. "True. But the pahiaseed here has been rich, as we hoped, and at least we are fat to begin the migration. We could not know the winter would come so early." There were mutters of agreement; Hutu subsided, testily. Glesh turned his deep eyes toward Chimmuh. Chimmuh squirmed. This was the moment when he must speak, but his voice would not come. Old Lozh filled the breach. "There are four sixes of prime males who are not with us." Now Chimmuh found his vo#ce. "My sire, and those with him, will -- be returning from the north with metal, for tools and for weapons if we are pursued iby Uangs. My sire and the others are prime, able to travel fast and to cross the mountains. They will have seen the winter two days ago, or three, and will be hurrying down Big Valley to reach us. They will see our tracks where we left Summering and follow into Katta Valley. They will be here in a few days." There was an embarrassed silence. Glesh rumbled a sigh. "You do not understand about snow, youngster. It will cover our tracks. Even if your sire's party is not trapped in the north and perhaps overwhelmed by Hangs, they will assume we have gone down Big Valley as usual." He sighed again. "What of your dam? Is she able to migrate?" Chimmuh stared past the fire to where his mother, eyes downcast, lay among the females. His stomachs felt as if they were both full of nettle-weed. "She is not. She will calve within days." There were mutters of sympathy. Glesh shifted his bulk and waggled his head and looked as if he wished he were not Leader. "I must consider the Herd. We cannot wait; nor cm we halt along the way. There will be several ancients left behind here, as well as Hutu. And Lozh says he will stay. Also -- " he tossed his head in annoyance -- "my youngest she-calf Aiwa has sworn she will not go with us, but will try to get back to Big Valley, since her mate is with your sire. I cannot make her listen." He stared at Chimmuh. "What of you, youngster?" . Chiaumuh felt dead inside. "I cannot abandon my dam." Glesh waited for the mutters of approbation to subside. "Thus be it, Chen. It is possible the snows may not be heavy; also, that the Hangs may not come until their normal season. In that case, your dam may calve and be fit to travel before long, and you can follow us. Until you know, it is best you stay here, or go higher into the mountains, rather than straggle and be caught in Katta Valley." He looked around slowly. "Is there any disagreement?" The arc of males was silent, except for Hutu, who grumbled but didn't actually protest. T he snow stopped with daylight, but the sky remained sullen. Chimmuh, shivering atop the cliff, stared out over the Katta Valley. The migration had left a broad beaten track down Nameless Creek, and now,' tiny with distance, it wound among the vertical-sided hummocks, like little mesas, on which the pahiagrass grew. He could only make out the big males plodding along in hollow formation, to shelter the females and calves. The valley looked strange, its level floor blanketed in white. Even the hummocks were snowy, so that the upthrust seedstalks stood out sharply. He peered up-valley. It looked lifeless. Then, miles north, he saw movement. He crouched anxiously, then saw it was only a herd of yenno grazing on phia-tendrils that hung down from the hummocks. That was a good sign. If the north carried any scent of Hangs, the yenno would he running. He'd seen how a yenno's six slender legs could flash. If there were no Hangs yet he could go down and gather pahiaseed. He'd need help to carry it, though. He couldn't see over the edge of the cliff, but smoke-scent told him he was about over the campsite. He turned and trotted lateraUy, to where he could climb down. II H is dam lay with four limbs tucked beneath her gravid flanks, her forelegs lifting and letting drop a hardwood pestle to grind seed in a mortar-stone. She gave him a relieved look. "I was worried, malecalf. You were gone long." He inclined his head in greeting to Aiwa, Glesh's she-calf, who squatted sullenly near the fire. "I went up Nameless Creek. Do you remember where our trail down from the passes joined it?" His dam said, "I remember." "WeH," Chimmuh said, "a short climb up the creek to the north there is a big hollow with only one narrow exit. It is like the one Glesh showed IF US and called a 'cirque,' left by some ancient river of ice. We will be much better hidden there. Brush grows on the bottom and up the sides until they are too steep. We might build a fence across the exit. And if we can get enough seed to go with brush-roots and foliage, we can -- " Aiwa was on her feet. "Did you go up to the pass?" "No." She stamped about, making impatient gestures with her forelimbs. "I am going across even if I must go alone!" Chimmuh, annoyed, said, "The absent ones will not be this far south for a few days, if at all. You must stay and help my dam." Aiwa stamped her feet. "I will wait today and tomorrow. Maybe only Joday. Then I will go!" Chimmuh held his temper. He understood why males sometimes bellowed at their mates. "I cannot argue now. Where are the others? I must persuade them to go with me for pahia-seed." His mother glanced half absently at his back -- thinking, no doubt, that a male calf with dorsal spines hardly sprouting was too young to do much persuading. She said listlessly, "Lozh is somewhere digging roots. The ancients and Hutu have gone to find a Dying Place." Chimmuh reared his head in shock. "A Dying Place! But -- I had counted on -- even Hutu?" His dam paused wearily in her grinding. "Hutu's leg is hurting him badly, and he sees that things are hopeless." Chimmuh said no more. He bounded over to the scanty pile of equipment Glesh had left them, chose a heavy chopping-knife in a scabbard and buckled it on so it hung at one flank. He looked back. "First I will find Lozh. Meanwhile, caa the two of you carry what we have here up to the cirque and build a fire? We will all join you there, though it may not be before dark." Aiwa said petulantly, "We have the cliff here." Chimmuh fought his anger. "There is good shelter in the cirque. And you will be closer to the passes." That persuaded Aiwa, but his dam looked at him with sad, fond eyes. "Must you go? Today..." He said, a little harshly, "We are not dead yet. There will  a tomorrow and a day after tomorrow. I will be careful." L ozh was a short gallop down the creek, working with a shovel the ruddy metal blade of which was worn and nicked. Chimmuh spat out, "Yohut! Is that the best they left?" Old Lozh drove the blade into the snowy soil and relaxed, gazing at C himm uh with a hint of amusement, standing on five limbs, the ether forepaw resting on the wooden spade handle. "There is one better, but this will suffice me. What did you see, from above?" "No sign of trouble, but snow everywhere. And I found a place where we might winter, if we can get enough food. You've seen hungry years, Lozh. Tell me. Can we live on roots and foliage?" IF The old male gestured toward the pile of tubeirs he'd dug. "This particular kind will keep us alive for a while, hut not healthy. Starvation is not our real worry, youngster. I did not want to speak frankly (before the females, but when the llangs come, they are voracious and vast in numbers. You must have stolen away with the other calves at some time to peep at the Dying Places and seen the bones scattered about, with not even one old hide as unsavory as mine left to cover them. Do not shudder. When a krote is old and stiff and lame, and his joys are safe in the past, death is no horror. And llangs are merciful at least in being quick." He looked at the scabbard Ohimmuh wore. "Were you going down, youngster to exterminate the species of llangs all by yourself?" Chimmuh tossed his head angrily. "I am going to chop pahia-seed, if I can persuade anyone to help me carry it. YohutI Were the others so anxious to die that they could not wait?" Lozh pulled the spade free and began digging slowly at another bush. "They have no hope. Grant them decency in taking themselves from the camp, to draw the llangs away from your dam." He waggled his head slowly. "I hoje it succeeds for a while at least, mehow, one feels that the act of birthing should be allowed to occur, even if dam and calf perisih a day later. Perhaps then their spirits may find peace." "Spirits!" Chimmuh snorted. "If those ancients would try as hard to live as they do to die, we might survive the winter. I'm going down to talk to them. If you care to be useful you might help my dam and Aiwa move to the cirque I found." He started down-creek, then turned, ashamed of his disrespect. "Forgive me. Elder. You could have gone with the Herd; you are not yet feeble. Why did you stay?" Lozh went on with his digging for a moment. Then he said, "It was I who suggested crossing over into this valley. Therefore, it seemed right that I stay. I'll carry these roots up and get the camp moved. If you see llangs, remember that you can outsprint them but your wind will not last. And you are still agile enough to climb a hummock. Llangs cannot." C himmuh found the resigned group huddled about a small fire in a little box canyon masked from the creek by tall brush. Besides Hutu, there were four old males and two females; the latter as scarred and sere-hided as the males though not nearly their size. Only Hutu looked at Chimmuh. The others, eyes dim with apathy and memories, slowly chewed their cud. Hutu lay on his left side, his splinted leg thrust out toward the fire. He tossed his head and rumbled, "Why are you here, youngster? If you're to stay with your dam, you should not wander about leaving tracks." Chimmuh moved nearer the fire, stamping his feet with cold. "There are no Hangs in the valley yet. I am going to chop seed. You must all help carry it up to the place I have chosen." Hutu snorted. "Who are you, th'out one horn on your head -- with hardly a dorsal spike, even -- to say what we must do? We have said farewell to the Herd, and to Lozh and your dam and Aiwa. And now we say farewell to you. Begone." Chimmuh hesitated, then burst out, "There is a calving to be guarded, and food to be brought for the dam and for Aiwa Who tends her! My dam cannot -- cannot make good milk on a diet of weeds! And there is a fence to be built, to keep out the Hangs. We are the Herd now, all that is left here. Have you lost all courage, like these senile hulks?" Hutu rumbled ominously and gathered his limbs beneath him, wincing. But the oldest and biggest of the ancient males spoke, and Hutu waited, in deference. The ancient rumbled, "You can know little of courage, youngster, since you know little of life!" One of the females said drily, "It is not our fault your dam is late in the year with her calving." Chimmuh said, "Other females have calved as late. If this were a normal year, there would be no trouble." He hesitated. It was against all instincts to be so brash with ancients. Still, he had them talking, at least. "You will have all winter to die in, if you must. Help me haul the seed to the new camping place. There will be snow tonight, to cover our tracks. If there are still no Hangs tomorrow, you can return here if you must. At least, then, you'll have pahia-seed to chew on while' you wait." Another old male said, "But if there are Hangs, we will be trapped with the rest of you in whatever place you have chosen. It is not right that ancients wait their end in a camping place." Chimmuh said, "It is less right that grown males desert a female who is calving." Hutu heaved himself to his feet, wincing as his splinted leg dangled. "Yohut! What is this talk of a fence?" Chimmuh told him, "I found a place with a narrow mouth, where we have everything but pahia-seed. I think we could fence out the Hangs." The oldest male said, "We are not agile enough to climb mountains, youngster." "There are no steep climbs," Chimmuh said. "You can do it, slowly." The ancient sighed and began heaving himself ponderously, by sections, to his feet. "Though you are hardly more than a calf, you preach like a nettle. GaUop on down and be about your chopping, so that we may find good loads when we catch up with you." Ill T he snow had melted a little in Katta Valley, so that there was much mud, and from the verticalsided hununocks water dripped. Gone were the autumn smells of warmth and ripe grasses. The snow had its own smell -- watery, but in addition a little bitter, a little pungent, like certain roots one chewed for medicine. Regular valley dwelIF lesrs evidently felt dislocated. A flock of putak birds, scavengers, circled on wide wings, so higjh tfeeir shrill cries came down only faintly. Insects crawled in the snow, moving Chimmuh to pity. A small vertebrate clung on a hanging vinelike pahia-tendril, shifting its six frail legs uncertainly, half afraid to descend. From the nearest hummock, at least four sixes of seed stalks grew up, twice as tall as Chimmuh's full length, each bearing at the top a pod as big as his head. In a normal year, these would be nearly ready to split, releasing the vaned seeds to go gliding away haphazardly like little models of putak birds. Chinunuh, nervous on the valley floor, hurried to the hummock, seized a thick tendril, bent it up in a loop and tied it with the non-slipping knot he'd been taught as soon as he was old enough to climb. He was almost too old for it, now. He made a second loop in another tendril, lunged up and got one of his hind feet in each of the loops and 'began tying other loops higher up. By the time he reached the level top, he was puffing. Pahia-shoots grew thick and erect, so it was hard to shove his way through. He got a seed stalk, peered up to make sure the pod was ripe enough, drew the heavy knife and began to chop. A few hard strokes had the stalk leaning. He reared up and tugged at it so it would fall toward the edge of the hummock. It tilted slowly and crashed down, the chopped end breaking loose and upending so that the whole slid off. He heard it thud on the soil below. The sitalk itself could be split for fenceposfs, or chopped for Bieiwood. He worked his way around the hummock, cutting all the stalks that were near the edge, then went to his makeshiift ladder. It was then the strange discomfort -- almost a panic -- seized him. He crouched there, trembling and staring around, tom between an urge to cry out for others of his kind and a fear of making any noise. Gradually, he understood. It was not so much a definite fear as the realization of being alone. He had never before been long out of calling-distance of other krote. Well, he'd simply have to bear it. He climbed down and trotted to another hummock. It w; a little better while he worked, usually shut in by the grass shoots so he couldn't see his loneliness. He had four hummocks harvested and was starting on a fifth when, faintly, he heard Hutu's voice. With a glad cry, he scrambled down and ran toward the voice. B y mid-aftemoon he'd felled all the ancients could haul. He rested, watching them tie the stalks, pods and all, into long bundles, using pliant tendrils, to be slung over their backs. Chimmuh, who couldn't have carried much anyway, stayed unburdened to act as scout. The procession started toward the slopes. He ranged ahead, trotting back and forth across the route, dropping back now and then to relieve the loneliness. Above the clouds, the day was aging. Then, while they were still among the hummocks, he met a herd of fleeing yenno. The herbivores -- built aloog the lines of krote, but smaller than Chinimuh -- came pouring from the north, slender limbs flashing rhythmically, their skins, darker than his own, inconspicuous against the dark hummocks. He crouched, startled, then darted for shelter. The tide flowed around him, some of the males pointing horns in warning but not attacking. Then the tide ended with a few stragglers limping along. He ran toward his own companions. As soon as he was in sight, the old males automatically closed up to form a circle. He pulled up, gasping. "Yenno! Running!" Hutu growled, "Yohutl" The oldest male rumbled, "How hard did they run, youngster? Were they winded? Did you see their tongues?" "N-no." "Then," the ancient said, "we have a little time. And I do not think Hangs will come into the hills tonight, with yenno to interest them." He peered at Chimmuh. "WiU you stay behind and north of us, youngster? If you see Hangs, or yenno really running, come to warn us at once. We cannot demand it of you. If you prefer, take what seed you can carry and hurry up to your dam. We wiU keep the Hangs occupied a while." Chimmuh stared distractedly toward the mountains. "I -- I could not carry much. I wiH stay." Hutu grumbled and said harsh things about his broken limb and made a sign of good luck to Chimmuh. Chimmuh drifted north of the caravan. He was determined not to be cowardly, nor yield to his loneliness. Possibly that was why he made little of another herd of ymo, nmning slightly harder than the first. It wasn't long afterward that he saw the Hangs. r iis -- he realized after his first frozen terror -- was a sort of advance guard, not more than four sixes of them, trotting in a swift easy gait out to vaHeyward of the yenno's track. They were already fed, perhaps, and just keeping tab on things. They hted the instant they saw him, fierce yeHow eyes startled and wary, as if they suspected a full krote herd nearby. Individually, they were ocJy a quarter of Chimmuh's bulk, long and low, with wedge-shaped ears now stiffly erect. They were not bare-flank like krote, but had short, Hght gray fur all over. Some, the older males no doubt, had ruffs to protect their throats as did mature males of Chimmuh's own species. AH six paws were running-paws, not made for grasping, but all fearsomely clawed. Their long slender muzzles showed fangs that nearly paralyzed Chimmuh with fright. One of them broke the brief tableau by snarling. Now Chimmuh learned how to run. He ran in pure mindless panic at first, body throwing itself into swerves to avoid hummocks, lungs pumping with an agonized violence. His head jerked about, bringing his eyes to bear on each dimness at the foot of a hummock, tossing quick looks behind. His legs ached and felt IF ready to collapse, but he streaked on leaving die Hangs out of sigt. No yenno could have kept pace with him in this initial wild hurst. Finally exhaustion forced him to slow. The Hangs were certainly on his track; he heard the peculiar chopped shrieks of their tracking. His mind was working now. He swerved around another hummock; shot off at nearly a right angle, toward the area where he'd chopped stalks. He had to give the caravan time. He worried whether he could find the right hummocks, but some part of his brain was taking him there. He saw a famiHar pattern, darted toward it; crouched a moment gasping and staring back. Then he grasped the tendril-loops and hauled, himself up. His muscles seemed to crack, and a smaH bleat of agony forced itself from him, but he went up. Before he reached the top, angry snarls broke out nearby. He heaved desperately and scrambled over the edge. He would have fled to the very middle of the hummock, if the shoots hadn't resisted. He twisted around to see his pursuers. Most of them had stopped as soon as they saw he was out of reach. Now, those turned and trotted to the wind-shelter of another hummock, where they sprawled loosely, panting, heads on their forepaws, yeUow eyes fixed on him. Two, though, had come right below him and were pacing about, staring up. He lay shuddering. His lungs ached, and both stomachs wanted to empty themselves. Time passed. The two Hangs paced. The others lay lax, only moving their ears at some distant hunting cry. The sky was nearly black, though above the clouds at least one moon must be shining. Chimmuh's breath was easy now, but the terror remained. How long would they wait here? Then one of the pair below him uttered a special snarl, reared up, and got a forepaw into one of the tendril-loops. He stretched, hooked the other forepaw in another, bunched his hindquarters and surged up. Chimimuh's panic brought him to a tense crouch. Surely the Hang couldn't reach him! Lozh had promised they couldn't climb! But maybe he'd made the loops too many, and too close together. T he Hang stretched its body incredibly, caught a hjgbieir loop. It heaved itself violently, missed, clung for a moment and tried again, caught the loop it wanted. Chimmuh could see how its wrists strained to stay hooked over the tendril, but it met his eyes and snarled a deathpromise, and he knew it wouldn't give up. He pressed back into the restraining grass. The Hang was gathering itself for the final stage. And now the others were on their feet, staring avidly. Suddenly Chimmuh remembered the scabbard that had slapped madly against his flank as he ran. Did it still hold the iknife? He could cut the tendrils! He roUed onto his side; darted a forepaw up to feeL Yes! He drew the knife; forced himself to lean forward. In the dusk, he couldn't tell the right tendrils. And now the Uanf made its final effort -- threw itself up and got first one, then the other forepaw onto the matted edge of the hummock. Its yellow eyes seemed luminous. Its scent was almost paralyzing in Chimmuh's nostrils. It snarled in triumph. Frantically, he swung the knife. The beast's scream made him cower hack. The Hang fell, still screaming. Ohimmuh was only dimly aware that the knife fell too. After a moiment the thrashing about below made him open his eyes and peer down. The Hang was writhing on the ground, snapping at its shoulder. The reek of blood was sickening. The second Hang was dancing about as if puzzled. It darted in and nipped experimentally at the injured one's flank. That one snapped back viciously. The others were converging now. The wounded one got to its feet and loped away unevenly. Chimmuh had the feeling that the others would have chased it and torn it to bits, if they'd been very hungry. As it was, they gradually settled down to their vigil. Chimmuh let his head droop, unmindful of their steady scrutiny, not caring that his tool -- his weapon -- lay below, unreachable. Both his stomachs wanted to be empty. He recaHed how, a calf, he'd crept secretly after a pair of grown males who'd gone to a secluded spot to settle a difference. He'd been sick then, too, as they lunged at each other, hooking with horns and striking with clawed feet, untU they were streaming blood. But afterward the eventual victor had been as sick as the one who lay behind. He'd staggered away by himself and retched awfuHy for a long time, with no sign of jubilation. Now Chimmuh understood. Even in necessity, to spiH the blood of another creature was a terrible thing. He lay there long after the snow began, long after the Hangs silently departed. Finally, though, it penetrated his dulled mind that he was freezing. He climbed down, very stiffly, reclaimed the knife, scrubbed it thoroughly in the snow, and hobbled away. He half expected to meet more Hangs. Evidently, though, they had no need yet to rove in snowstorms. And snow would cover his tracks. He must have staggered on half asleep, for it seemed both a very long time and a short time before he turned up the stretch of Nameless Creek that mumbled down out of the cirque. Ahead, he saw the glow of a fire. As gravid as his dam was, she lurched to her feet when he plodded into the fireUght. "CMdl" There was a confusion of beHowing and "Yohuts!" and headwaggling. Finally Lozh sHenced it. "Let him sleep. He has earned it." IV T he snow continued next morning, the more disturbing because it hid what one should see in daylight, reducing the world to a cliff and a half-circle of brushland. The camp place Lozh had chosen was, objectively, very good. The cliff gave shelIF ter from the north wind. One of the many trickles that nursed Nameless Creek flowed nearby. There was level soil, upon which they'd built a long shelter, backed by e cliff, of upright poles roofed over slantingly, pahia-pod hulls serving as shingles. A single long fire fronted it a few paces out. It was fascinating to watch the snowflakes disappear into nothing as they met the rising warm air. Chimmuh's dam lay in the dim interior, silent and withdrawn. That added to Chimmuh's uneasiness. But the two old females placidly ground seed to make pahia-bread. The old males, including Lozh, were barely visible in the snowfall, collecting roots and foliage. There'd be no hunger for a while. Hutu lay by the fire, his broken leg stretched out to the warmth. A long application of steaming mud, followed by a more careful splint, had lessened his discomfort. Only Aiwa stamped about impatiently. When Chimmuh realized the snow was not going to stop, he hauled himself lamely to his feet and hobbled out to find Lozh. Lozh was using the imperfect shovel again. He stopped and peered at Chimmuh. "You are not at peace, youngster." Chimmuh spoke with respect. "Nor would the others be, Elder, if they had met the Hangs as I did." Lozh waggled his head. "True. I was looking where we might build your fence. We will not have enough posts. Anyway, there is not soft soil all the way across. We cannot erect posts in solid rock." Chimmuh shifted his feet for warmth. "What then?" Lozh said, "We can only gather loose rocks and pile them. I was hoping the snow would stop so we could find some. Have you another harangue in mind, to put the ancients to work?" Chimmuh said a little huffily, "Let us simply start work and shame them into joining." T he old male who was spokesman for the four had, it developed, experience with fences. He took a sharpened post and thrust it lightly into the ground. "It is done thus. Now, since my forepaws are not much good for grasping, I must rear up and put this thick board across the top, so I can bring enough of my weight to bear." He did so, gruntingly, and the post slid a fifth of its length into the ground. "So. Now, that thick one about here, I think -- it will be good for a gatepost." Amused, he watched Chimmuh's effort. "You see, youngster? Your forepaws are deft for grasping, but you do not have the weight. I have weight to spare, but cannot grasp well. It is one of life's jokes. A similar one exists in the matter of dealing with females... but you will not bother about that for three years, or four." He took hold of the post. "Permit me." There were enough posts for the stretch of soft soil, set closely so no Hang could squeeze through. That left both ends, plus Nameless Creek, which must be closed with a lattice of brush-trunks that wouldn't dam the water. The chore of gathering rocks begaiL Oiimmm h trotte: aiboulk them for the old males to catty. "Obe two she-ancients chopped bues and took them to Hutu to trim. The snow stopped in mid-afternoon, but ihe night was cold. Chiminuh slept fitfully. Once or twice he heard mother moan in her sleep. #ut dmt distuilbed him more was he dStt tracking cry of Hangs, ' omewhete down Nameless Creek. He (wias about with the first daylight, anxious to resume work on the fence. By evening, when it was still not snowing, the woiik was almost finished, though the rocky ends must still be (built 'higher. And it was that evening that Chimmuh, peering between the posts, saw a group of Hangs down Nameless Greek. They were staring toward the cirque, lifting their muzzles as if either the scent of krote or the drifting woodsmoke were puzzling. Finally they trotted down the creek. Chimmuh, shaken, sought out Lozh. "Supposing, Elder, the fence keeps out Hangs indefinitely. We wHl run out of pahia seed before long. Could we make trips for more, while it was snowing?" Lozh waggled his head doubtfuHy. "As few and as feeble as we are, I fear not. One or two trips, soon, perhaps. But as winter extends and the Hangs grow hungry, they'U be less particular about the weather." He started to say more, but paused, staring toward the fire. Chimmuh saw the females gathered there. He galloped that way. One of the she-ancients rumbled at him and moved to block him, then, remenbering who he was, moved aside. He stopped, stiff-legged, staring at the pale-hided thing eagerly nursing at his mother's beHy. She looked up, eyes tired but bright with emotions he didn't entirely understand. "Male-child, you have a small sister." H e must have slept soundly, for the trouble that night was well evolved before he heard it. He scrambled to his feet, full of panic and the stupidness of slumber, craning his neck to see 'beyond the fire. The bulky forms of the four old males loomed there, motionless. From down-cirque he heard Hutu and Lozh bellowing, Aiwa screaming, and a bedlam of snarls and shrieks that could only be Hangs. He was so weak with terror he could hardly move; but he forced himself into action, grabbed the shovel that was the nearest weapon and somehow got to one end of the fire. He was nearly trampled as two of the old males, their minds working now as well as their instincts, wheeled to occupy the gap between that end of the fire and the cliff. The other two, presumably, were at the other end. Then, as he started toward the fence, Aiwa almost bowled him over. He had wit enough to thrust with the shovel-blade at the dim shape snapping at her heels. He felt the impact, saw Wood gush from the Hang's chest. It went sprawling and screaming. Two more came out of the dark, split around ham and darted on. StiH another appeared, and he thrust at it with shovel. He hit it, not solidly, and it IF turned and disappeared into the dark. He heard a thump and a shriek behind him as one of the pair that had avoided him got too close to the big males. Its partner shot by him in retreat. Chimmuh galloped into the dark, dreading what he'd find. As his eyes adjusted he saw a writhing knot of shadows at the gate. His legs kept going. Hutu lay motionless and silent in the snow. Lozh, his tail to the fence, was standing, off a full six Hangs that darted about him, looking for an opening. Three or four other Hangs lay dead. Chimmuh hurtled in, shovel poised. He realized that the gate was shut, with a horde of Hangs clamoring outside. The ones around Lozh saw him coming and broke. He thrust and caught one full in the flank. The rest, except one, darted to his right along the fence, thinking now only of escape. The single one swerved around him and went after its fellows. Lozh bellowed, "Come! Don't give them time to think!" The snow was heaped up at the foot of the slope, and against the rock fence. The beasts floundered in it, trying to climb free. Chimmuh, mind hardly working, crippled another with the shovel, but that was his last contribution to the action. Chimmuh stood shaking with reaction. Finally he gasped, "Hutu?" Lozh rumbled savagely, "Hutu is dead. He sold his life to get that gate shut." He reached out, picked up a dead Hang and heaved it mightily over the fence. He reached for another, but paused. "No; one is enough to show them now. We'll skin the others first. We'll need warm pelts." By the time they got back to the gate, the pack outside had taken itself off. Hutu's blood was a dark congealed blob in the snow. His throat ruff had not been enough against so many slashing fangs. Chimmuh followed in a daze as Lozh marched toward the fire. V A iwa lay huddled between the old females. Lozh prodded at her, not gently. "Why did you do it?" Her flanks heaved with emotion, but she was silent. Lozh prodded harder. "Why did you open the gate?" This time she lifted her head. Her eyes were duU with inward pain. "I didn't know there'd be Hangs near. I was going to -- to slip away and cross the mountains to find my mate." One of the old males rumbled, "A fool's errand. Do you think, now, he would be alive even if you found him? His bones lie somewhere in the north!" Aiwa put her head down again. Lozh left her. There was talk about Hutu's corpse. The decision was to leave it until morning. Silent with grief, the camp settled down. Chimmuh moved out beyond one end of the fire and huddled against the cliff. He wanted to be able to see the fence without the fire glare in his eyes. The fence was barely visible in the dim light. The rest IF of the cirque was a ghostly, uneasy place, with faint, dancing gleams and shadows. After a while he got up and went to find Lozh. The old male lay at the other end of the fire. He lifted his head as Chimmuh approached. "Can you not sleep, youngster?" "No. Elder, I know very little lore, but it seems to me that we can't hope to survive long as things are. What do you really feel are the chances my sire is still olive and will be going down Big Valley?" Lozh stared into the fire. "Your thoughts are mine, too. The Hangs are not totally irresistable. We have seen how awkward they are in snow too deep for them, and they die easily under heavy blows. If your sire and brothers and those with them learned quickly, they might fight their way down Big Valley. If I were more agHe -- " Chimmuh interrupted impatiently. " am best fitted to cross the mountains. And if I found my sire's party, we would not have to worry about starving. So many prime males could travel down Nameless Creek and retiun with pahia-seed every few days, if necessary. Could they not?" Lozh waggled his head. "I would not choose it as a pastime. But probtry the mountains?" Chimmuh stamped his feet for warmth. "Of course. But do you think my sire would already have passed by?" "That," Lozh rumbled, "depends upon many things we do not iknow. But every day increased the likelihood." Chimmuh said, "I can start tomorrow, if it snows. The Hangs seem to retire down-creek when it snows." "Possibly," Lozh said, "but I would think it wiser after dark. And you cannot go without preparation. Packs must be made up, for you'U need food and firewood. And we'U skin those dead Hangs for pelts. Rest, now; I will keep watch. Tomorrow may do its own planning." T he morning was overcast, but snowless. Icy wind whipped over the north rim of the cirque, seizing upon the smoke from the fire and whirling it away. The four ancient males lay chewing their cud and discussing Hutu's corpse. They favored dragging it to a spot near the left end of the fence, where they could pHe brush over it, then snow. They were disturbed that he hadn't been able to get to a Dying Place and seemed worried that they themselves might meet the same (Hsgrace. Chimmuh, after listening a moment, gaHoped away angrily toward the fence, to peer down-creek. There were no Hangs in sight, but he could hear them somewhere. Lozh said he must not start yet. He plodded back to the fire. His dam was well enough now to walk from the shelter, the she-calf wobbling after her. "Male-child," she said sadly, "you have risked yourself enough. Must you do more?" He fought impatience. "Who but me? And would you want my sire to travel on south without knowing we are here?" She gazed at him quietly for a moment, glanced at the calf, which was staring wide-eyed at the fire, and dipped her head in acquiescence. 'HTare well for yourself." She turned and nuzzled the calf gently back under the shelter. There was no snow by nightfall, but the llang-sounds were far downcreek. Chimmuh stood at the gate, peering out with mixed filings. Lozh plodded toward him, carrying things. "Here are pelts enou to lie on, and to cover you. I had the females scrape them thoroughly and rub ashes into them, so they shouldn't be unbearable. And here's a bit of lore I learned once." He displayed some oddly shaped pieces of pelt. "Put these on your feet like this, fur side in, and tie them thus. They will keep your toes from freezing. And this -- you hang it around your neck, so the pouch is convenient to thrust your forepaws into. You may prefer at times, when you rest, not to build a fire. Huddle, if you can, in a corner of rock, or at worst in deep snow. The snow will not freeze you as quickly as the wind. Do not get too cold or tired or hungry, or your strength will desert you with little warning. Think well before making irreversible decisions." Chimmuh said, "I will travel fast. I shall not take very long in the passes." Lozh rumbled a sigh. "And do not be overconfident. It will be harder than you think. The cold and the high thin air are things you are not used to." Chinunuh shifted his feet impatiently. "Will you help me with these knots?" I t seemed to Chimmuh that the faint noises Lozh made opening the gate and closhig it would draw every Hang within a day's gallop. He crouched for a moment staring down-creek, glanced back at the quartet of males guarding the gate, dipped his head to Lozh and ran quietly for the right-hand slope. He climbed far enough to see over the brush along the creek, then trotted carefully along the slope, eyes and ears straining. The crackling of the fire was far behind him, and all he could hear now was the soft voice of Nameless Creek and the cold wind plucking at the 'brush and snow. He looked back. He could see nothing but the fence silhouetted against the fire glow. He went on. The mountain's shoulder curved away ifrom Nameless Creek, and now the cirque was out of sight. Somewhere, down-creek, there was a short outburst of Hang snarls, which hastened him a little. He went farther around the slope and was in the ravine that climbed westward. Before long, that was bare of brush. Now there'd be no sudden ambushes. He found a place that kept him tolerably warm without exhausting him, but to hold it he had to stay out of snowdrifts, which took some thought. He tried to recaH what this ravine had been like when the Herd came down it. Passably free of boulders, he thought, but his footing was a little nervous. The wind came over the north slope, swirling in the ravine, icily. He stopped to adjust a foot covering and was shivering at once. He climbed on. After a while a light snowIF fall began, increasing ibis sense of isolation. But proibly he didn't have to worry about Bangs now. He could stop, when he was tired enough, and get warm. He remembered that the opposite side of this canyon had been crumbled at one point, with a rock slide and some shallow caves above it. Had he passed that already? Things looked so different. But his instincts said the place was still ahead. He trotted on wearily. Then, where a side canyon split off, he had a flash of memory. The rook slide wasn't far. He reached it and stood peering up the white slope. Could he climb the slide? He crossed the ravine and started up, settling five paws carefully before moving the sixth. It wasn't too difficult. He would have liked a torch to see into the caves, but building a fire was a chore, so he settled for listening and sniffing. The caves were empty. He Chose one with a level floor just big enough to curl up on, brushed out the snow, spread some pelts and settled himself. He decided against a fire. With more pelts spread over him, he was warm enough. He chewed a mouthful of pahia-seed and slept. Snow was intermittent the next day, but the going was harder, because now the air was thin and his lungs labored. Also, his body warmth seemed to flood away alanmingly. He had to stop several times, and that night he built a fire in the best shelter he could find. He had to work very long with the spinningstick until the shaved kindling ignited and his forepaws were cramped and exhausted. But once he got a few big sticks buiming, everything was fine. He dried out the pelts and foot coverings and what he could of the packs. Sometime during the next day, which was snowy, he got lost. The blind canyon he blundered into was short, so he soon realized his mistake, but momentarily he panicked. He turned and floundered back wildly, going eastward along his own tracks, not thinking at all until he tripped and went sprawling. He lay there, gasping and thinking of the cirque, with its warmth and the companionship of other krote. Then, slowly, reason returned. There was no safety in failure. He struggled up -- shockingly stiff and weak -- and turned westward again, past the blind canyon. At the first good rock-shelter, he bundled himself in the pelts, piling the other things around him, and got warm. Before nightfall he was definitely descending. And now he recognized his surroimdings. This ravine would lead down to a creek which flowed into Big Valley. The air would be getting better again, and he wouldn't be constantly laboring uphill. But those difficulties would be exchanged for another. Big Valley was no doubt swarming with Hangs. VI O n a cold but snowless morning, he lay on a finger-ridge and stared out over Big Valley. Beyond a wide stretch of hummocks, the river wound its broad channel. Movement, closer, caught fads eye. A pack of Hangs, tiny with distance, trotted along. The snow barely covered their feet. Evidently there hadn't been much in Big Valley. He saw three or four other packs, one of them in full chase after something. The choppy pursuit cry reached him faintly and made him shiver beneath his covers. He obviously couldn't go down into the valley in clear weather, if at all. The summering camp was south of here, on this side of the valley -- not a long trot, on level ground. He stared at the next ridge, then looked inland. If he followed the contour of the land, it would take him days. So, he must cross the ravines. He watched this one for a while and saw nothing but putak birds soaring low over some carrion. Loading himself, he started down. As he reached brush, something small darted from before him, making him leap. He went on, sense alert. At the bottom he crossed a small creek and stopped to listen. No sounds close. He started up the other slope. He wasn't yet clear of the brush when he heard a shrill chopped cry behind him . He ran, equipment slapping against his flanks. Something under the snow tripped him, and he went sprawling. He got up, wincing with pain, and went on. Other Hang voices had joined in, so there was no doubt they were on his track. He headed for a part of the slope where the snow looked thicker. His lungs already ached. When the Hangs burst from the brush and saw him. he knew it by the sudden urgency of their cries. He was having to make high leaps in the snow now. What would he do at the top of the ridge? If he turned up it, would they stay in the ravine, paraHeling him, to cut hitn off? No; they were charging up the slope. He realized that his lead in elevation was as good as a long lead on the level. He got to the rounding-off and stopped almost impudently to watch them. Let them struggle in the deep snow, then. He trotted up-ridge, on easy footing now, watched them flounder, then passed over the brow of the ridge out of their sight. He slowed to peer into the next ravine. If he ran into another pack, he was in bad trouble -- his lungs and muscles couldn't handle another such flight. But he was farther up this ravine, and the brush was thinner, with no sign of Hangs. He plunged down the slope and across the bottom and picked the easiest ways up the far ridge. When he heard his pursuers top the one he'd left, he turned to watch them. They stood in a tight group, staring at him, but they'd had enough of the chase. He went on at a bearable pace, crossing several more ridges. He saw and heard Hangs, but none close. By late afternoon he was within sight of the summering place. T he old camp was in a deep ravine that had a fair-sized creek and a steep northern side for shelter. Each spring, arriving, Chimmuh had seen the previous year's fire sites, winter-washed but not obliterated. It IF was strange now to see the unbroken blanket of snow. Even the rocks arranged into cooking places were mounded over. Here and there were abandoned baskets and such, also covered. There were no shelters standing, since they'd been torn down for fuel on the mountain crossing. There were no krote tracks or other signs that his sire's party had been there. A day or two of snow, doubtless, would cover such tracks. There were Hang tracks -- everywhere. And those were fresh. His stomachs felt heavy with frustration. What a forlorn mission this was! Even if the metal-gathering party still lived, wasn't it foolish to expect them to fight their way down the length of Big Valley? Wouldn't they find some haven in the north, as Chimmuh and his group had? Surely they'd presume the Herd would be long gone. So, even if they did come down Big Valley, why would they bother with the summering place? Wouldn't they go down the river channel, where there was only short brush and long open stretches of bottomland? Unless they hoped for some message left at the campsite. There was, he thought, only a faint hope that they'd still come. But it was the only hope, so he must wait. The trouble was, he had food and fuel for only a few days. If he could go down into the valley and climb a hummock, he'd have everything he needed. The pahiaseed hadn't been rich in Big Valley this year, but he could exist on it. Would he get the chance? It wasn't snowing now, here. Anyway, by this time the Hangs might be hungry enough to ignore snowfall. He stared at the campsite. If he could at least get that far, he could leave a cairn with a message -- pile rocks up, and find a bit of charcoal to draw on a slab of wood. What kind of drawing? A sketch of a female krote and a smaU calf and an arrow pointing in the direction of the mountain passes? Not very understandable. It might be that no one with his father had ever seen the passes. Anyway, for now, he'd have to stay where he was. Should he build a fire? The smoke would be visible quite a way, and at night the fire would show. At least it was activity. He found a level spot and shov snow off it; unpacked his goods. This time he took pains shaving the kindling and, with the lower air, had no trouble. The warmth was wonderful, but the smoke was a disappointing beacon. It swirled up only a little way then whipped south with the wind. The afternoon dragged by. He ate, and tried to rest, and frett. Night came crisp and snowless. He worried that he was using wood recklessly and that the fire would attract Hangs. Almost he would have welcomed seeing a few, if they didn't come close -- his solitude was agony again. It always was, when he didn't have something to keep him busy. Now and then he heard Hangs. Once a pack of them went by at the foot of his ridge, and he tensed for flight, but they were on some track. He imagined their yellow eyes staring up taward the fire as they passed. Then, sometime during the night, it began to snow, H e tensed in uncertainty. Should he quench the fire to save wood? It couldn't he seen far now. Should he sneak down to the campsite? He might not get another chance. And it would be good to have the fire to return to. He listened. Was that a hang? If so, it was far out in the valley. And ailmost any risk seemed better than just huddling here. He took his chopping-knife and started down the slope. At the edge of the brush he turned down-ravine, shying at every mound in the snow. He could barely make out the fire's glow now. Finally, a snow mound had a familiar shape. He ran to it, thrusting his forepaws into the snow to feel the cooking stones, as if they were old friends. Presently he began to shift them into a ground layer for a cairn. Then he went to the next cluster for more. He tried to be quiet, but the stones made a distressing amount of noise. He paused to listen. Nothing. But to his imagination then ni'ght was full of stealthy pawfalls. He had to go farther to get more stones. When he had a pyramid half as hjgh as himself he was satisfied the siiow would not hide it. Now, what about a message? There'd be no convenient flat slabs of wood here. He should have thought about that before he left the fire. Well, then a sharpened twig, to point in the right direction? A poor message. Maybe he'd beter get back up to the fire; make a second trip while the snow lasted. He started in that direction -- and heard a snarl somewhere ahead. He whirled and ran the other way, blindly. After a few strides he tum up the slope. But here it was too steep; he lost footing and slid, floundering. The Hangs were clamoring now. He scrambled to his feet and darted away from the slope. He knew (this ravine, knew its flat floor and the gentler slope on the far side. He plunged through brush; reached the creek and bounded across it, splashing in icy water, tore through the brush on the far side, falling at least twice. Then he was on the upcurving slope. He was gasping, but he could tell by their cries that the Hangs were breathing hard too. He headed by memory for a slight gully where the snow would be deeper. He stumibled into it and climbed. Eventually, dazed with fear and exhaustion, he gained the top of the ridge and went along it, toward higher ground. He could tell when the Hangs hit deeper snow. Evidently they were already tired from some earlier chase -- this must be the bunch that had gone up-ravine earlier, as he huddled by his fire -- for they gave up quickly, and he heard them no more. But now he was far from his fire and all his equipment. Even the choppingknife lay somewhere near the stone caim. He peered across the ravine. If the fire still burned, the snowfall ihid it completely. How IF lng would it take him to plod inland, cross the ravine high up and come back down the other ridge? Without even his foot coverings, he trembled violently now. He tried to hurry on, to warm himself, but he was too exhausted. Dare he curl up in deep snow and rest a while? He didn't think any Hangs would come up here. The snowfall would quickly cover his scent, if not his deep tracks. He couldn't go on without rest. He shoved a pile of snow together and burrowed into it, knowing dimly that he mustn't rest too long, or he'd be too frozen to walk. But, curled into a ball with his paws tucked in, he felt surprisingly well. He was cold, but at least the wind didn't tear at him. Maybe he could rest here till daylight. GraduaUy, his trembling stopped. His body seemed to be accepting the cold. He drowsed. Vaguely, once, he realized it was daylight, but that didn't matter. He stirred feebly, relieving a cramp, and slept again. Then one voice cut through to him -- a voice as familiar as his own limbs, a full male voice he'd known aU his life. "Male-calf I Rouse yourself! We found the cairn and your tracks. What are you doing here? Where is your dam?" r iey had strange artifacts that no lore had ever mentioned. They wore pelts stitched together to cover their whole bodies, except the Hmbs and elaborate foot coverings. Tliey had weapoiK larger than a spade, with fearsome points of hammered ruddy metal. They had flat platforms of hewed pahia-stalk, floored over with thin-beaten metal, on which permanent fires burned and which they dragged after them, slipping easily and amazingly over the snow. Others of those platforms bore quantities of metal or chopped wood, or pouches bulging with pahia-seed. For part of the way Chimmuh had ridden on one of those platforms. Now, rested, he trotted beside his sire. Wurgan turned his big head. "We had desperate times before we learned to cope with everything. Yohut! The Hangs were everywhere! We had to devise new things." He peered anxiously at Chimmuh. "Was that fence of yours secure? Do you think Lozh wHl have been able to cope with things?" Chimmuh said, "He did not act at all senHe. And I think the ancients are resigned to living another year." Wurgan waggled his head in amusement. Then he said, "A new she-calf! How much farther?" "We wiH be there soon," Chimmuh told him. He tried to sound confident. "The winter is not bad, when one learns its ways. And Hangs aren't so much." Nevertheless, he tensed nervously when he saw a smaH pack of Hangs ahead, just where the ravine converged with Nameless Creek. He felt much better when the beasts, after staring for a moment at the oncoming phalanx of huge male krote, turned, snarling, and skulked away. And he felt even better when, turning up Nameless Creek, he saw the fence stiH intact and smoke risIF IF  Short Sttry AfuPcuUhe If was a pleasant little hunting trip in the sun, the quarry a panther as big -- and deadly! -- as a dinosaurl I t isn't often that a mu panther is loose around here. When one is, the farmers and breeders usually call on Everret, Mader  Crawford, C.P.H. I'm the Everret part of it, Barry Everret, and the chief partner. We were loafing around the office in Denver, throwing opinions on some new armament round-robin style, when we got the word that a cat was loose north of us. "Barry, I don't like the feel of those new Brownings that were sent out. They're made for a factory load, and the special slugs you wanted tested out throw the balance off, as well as -- " The telephone cut Jesse Matler off with its nasal buzz. He grabbed it resignedly. It really isn't often that we get a panther. Cougars are our biggest problem, ever since the # blowups. Occasionally panthers show up, hut the ratio was eight to one, at least. So when one comes arouBd from up in the Rockies and slashes some breeders' mu steers, we usually get the job. Even young Brad Rodgers out on his father's spread knew ur reputation as the best professional hunters in four states; the Certified before our names could tell anyone that at a glance. It was Rodgers on the line, from the halfWyoming. Jesse hung up and turned to us. "Rodgers says they've lost four prize steers in two nights. They weighed in at ten tons each and stood thirty hands high, so he's lost quite a lot. They were champion stock. He wants us up there right away." "We'd better get up there, then," Bill Crawford said, with his persoBalized sarcastic drawl. he loses any more stock like that he won't he able to afford our services. He must know we don't work for peanuts. Anyway, since when is Rodgers running his spread? From all accounts he couldn't tell a prize steer from a cow." He was perfectly right, of course; just one look at Rodgers would be enough to convince anyone that he wasabout as competent as a Mongolian idiot. Jesse just ignored Bill and continued. "He postitively identified the tracks as panther's, and all of sixteen inches across." T hat sobered Bill up right away. We knew then that it would be one heck of a cat; body symmetry would make it thirty-five feet long, and maybe fifty tons in weight. That would I a record; so in six hours we had packed a full expedition and in another four we stood in front of the Rodgers ranch house. It looked like pure Park Avenue. Jesse Matler and Bill Crawford have been partners with me for ten years now, and friends before that. Matler is the bigger of the two, a huge man, built like a boulder, with hands that can pulverize sandstone. But Jesse's one of the easiestgoing people I know, until he gets mad. That's very seldom, but when it happens it's a perfect case history of midtiple personality. Jesse turns into a reasonable facsimile of a charging hippo. Aside from that, he's one of those pro hunters who cut their teeth on a .#-#. He grew up in South Africa, the son of the owner of one of die last great private preserves in the Continent. He got his first lion when he was sixteen. It was normal sized because of the scarcity of power plants in Africa; the unknown blowups in America had not affected them at all. That had been twentynfive years ago and seventy-five years from the blowups, so few mutations had shown up at that time anyway. His first rhino fell a year later; the same mad rhino had killed his father a few hours before, so that hunt was more than for pleasure or profit. Jesse sold the preserve to the government soon afterwards, not by choice but because of a large landreclamation program under way. He moved back to his father's native America and met Bill and me at a hunting lodge in California where he was listlessly teaching greenhorns how to hunt like a pro. That was fifteen years ago. Since then Jesse has become the backbone doesn't need the money we collect; his father's land in Africa paid off nicely. But Jesse could no more give up hunting than Minnesota Fats could quit pool. Bill Crawford is almost opposite Jesse in build and temperament, but just as skilled at his spialty. He's about average height land weight, but is solid rock, a (high-rankiing karate beltnholder. He was an artillery specialist in the Army. He can handle a #-mm. howitzer like it was a popgun, with either atomic or chemical explosives in the charge. He cut his teeth on a recoilless rifle, IF not unlike our own antitank gun. And when you've got forty tons of cat moving at you, the boom of the big gun over your head is mighty welcome and cheering. And then there's Schultz, my mu dog with a talent for telepathy and such. I had Schultz custom-bred from prize German-Shepherd stock, specially trained for hunting purposes. The fact that a phenomenal intelligence went along with the psi mad Schultz a good friend too. W e've been contriving to find ourselves a mu panther for a while. Now, since we tracked this cat down on the Rodgers land, reports have been coming in of some more sightings in the area. Some, I guess, are cranks, because of the widespread publicity after Brad Rodgers died on the hunt. The inquest cleared us of any foul play. But it was the one hunt I'll never forget; I doubt if we'll ever meet up with another cat like that one. At any rate, I hope not. We've been controlling mutations commercially for some time now, ever since the early successes with the chromosome-controls were developed in the early #'s. Now it's the world's largest industry. It ought to be. It solved the world's food problems, since fifty-pound cabbages can go a long way. But the blowups of the big Nevada and Colorado nuclear power plants started a wildcat chain of mues, even worse because it showed up only after eighty years had passed. Once in a while a mu cat shows up, and we get called in, or one of the other few pro firms. We're still dreading the day when these mues start to attack towns, or farmhouses. So far the only deaths were cattle. ' Not counting Rodgers, of course. He was waiting for us at the landing strip behind the main complex of the farm and ranch; and it was clear from the first that he was the type who ran the show totally, disregarding any advice that went against it... winch it usually did. I can't really blame him, because he was totally starved for power. His father had left the ranch in the care of the foreman, and his son could never manage his own property. I knew the elder Rodgers slightly. He was fiercely possessive where his land was concerned, an anachronism from the times of the range wars, probably. He could have trained his son -- but that involved risk to his land, or at least some uncertainty. None of us had ever seen Brad Rodgers in person before. We had dealt with his ranch only through his foreman, never with him. What he was holding over someone's head now wo couldn't guess, but it was obvious Who was in charge here. He was wearing a khaki shirt and light slacks, and he wasn't built too badly, though compared to the three of us he was scrawny. He looked as if he was a commander briefing his troops, as he faced us in his study and pointed to a map of the spread. We had already been introduced, and he wanted to get down to business fast. The foremen were nowhere in sight. A hired hand had guided our airboat in to the strip, amd the heliport had been open when we landed. He pointed to a spot on the map about five miles from the house. "Here's where the carcasses were found last night, gentlemen," Rodgers said. "Their throats were ripped out and large sections in their bodies had been torn up and eaten. One of my hands found the tracks not far from the steers, in some soft mud. All the area was tom up by the struggle between the steers and the cat. They were panther's tracks, Mr. Everret." He handed me a photograph of the tracks as a group and a plaster of Paris mold of one of them. There were five that were readable enough for this type of identification. They were panther's, all right, and easily the sixteen inches that Rodgers had quoted. I passed the photo and mold to Jesse; he confirmed the identification. This was a record cat, and the smeU of a great hunt was in the air, as miuoh as could filter over the atmosphere of fear induced by the thought of the huge panther, anyw'ay. 'Uh, Mr. Rodgers," Bill Crawford broke in, "could we speak to one of your foremen for the details of this, like the direction and the time factors involved? I mean -- " "Crawford, I run this ranch. As long as I do, you come to me for whatever information that you need. Remember that." Rodgers was fuming mildly at the slight to his pride. I broke back in. "Mr. Rodgers, we know this is your land and we respect you. But we need an experienced hunter, someone who knows this area like the back ct his hand. Besides, we have only one extra seat and gun in the aiiboat. If we could, we'd be glad to take you out with us, but as it stands..." "Everret, I've got my own guns. What are you using?" "Small aims are #-gauge shotguns fitted for rifled slugs and built for #-gram explosive slugs." I smiled in triumph; that beauty costs upwards of fourteen hundred dollars. But Rodgers was undaunted; he walked over to a rifle rack I hadn't noticed and removed a twin to the express rifles outside, with a few extras: a gold inlay, suede cheekpiece and recoil pad and handcarved fiberglass stock. Those would jack up the price considerably. Our own weapons were bare of these, because we all agreed that it is useless and costly. "You said yourself that you have an extra seat in the airboat, Everret. Well, Tm going to ibe in it, or else the whole deal is off. If I have to go to every Certified Professional Hunting team in the country. I'll see that cat brought down with my own eyes." With that he brought us back outside and vanished iback into the ranchhouse, leaving us to decide which was worse: hunting with a greenhorn or not hunting at all. Jesse and Bill were disgusted. 'Barry, he can't be serious. Rodgers is probably safe only on a target range -- with small bores. Even IF if he were a fairly good amateur hunter, this kind takes a special type of nerve. You know that. A mutated panther isn't exactly an ordinary game." Bill agreed with Jesse. "Any non-pros -- and even some pros, I think -- will do either one of two things. Either they would fold up like a sick jellyfish or they would empty their usually considerable armament into everything around -- except the cat. And Rodgers looks like the amateur's amateur, well equipped but Kelly green." "I know it's risky," I said, "but it's the only way we can get at that panther. We don't want to pass that panther onto the Muller spread or Jerry Dane's land to the east. We'll have to put up with Rodgers until we get up. Then Tm the boss, as captain, or Jesse as co-pilot. Up there he can't spit unless I let him." "But, Barry, this is going to be tough work. We can't afford any useless weight till that cat is cold and cut up for the hogs." "Sure, Jesse, I know. But we have to go after that cat. If it goes after a town or a ranchhouse because of a delay we caused, we can expect to have our license revoked by the Game Commission, at least." So the issue was settled. But Rodgers would have done better to stay beihind. When I said we were a professional team I didn't mean that we were a bunch of jungle boys who go after the big cats with loincloths and knives. We cheat at this game -- a lot. We have to. Nature made us what we are and in so doing fixed the odds at a thousand to one against us when faced with one of the mues. When we go after one of them -- cougars, jaguars, panthers -- we use custom airboats that can climb two hundred feet in a second, or skim over any surface at three hundred miles per hour. This isn't too much speed in comparison to the big cats, but it's the climbing power that is the big advantage, bringing us up and out of the range of the biggest cat's claws. We also carry sound pickups, radar and infrared scopes for tracking and night work. And besides the small arms --  if you can call the #-gauge shotguns "small" -- we have an antitank recoilless rifle mounted on the rear of the airboat, Bill Crawford's pride and joy. He can do everything with that piece but make love. Next to that and the crates of armorpiercing shells was a small ruby laser, designed for industrial cutting and welding. We've never had to use that beauty yet, but from the tests I've run I'd say it would be one hell of a barbecue. Bill has the laser and antitank gun controls hooked into a radar unit operating in unison with the unit up at the control panel. Unless one of us is at the guns, the radar aims and fires the weapon automatically. Of course, it's keyed for animals only, just in case. J esse and I sat in the front of the airboat, with Bob in the artillery mount and Rodgers in the extra seat behind me. We unpacked the shotguns and loaded boxes filled with clips of the banana-sized shell. five to a clip. I charged the laser's power supply and checked the liquid helium coolant bath surrounding the ruby shield and flash tubes. I set the beam for a pencil-thin "sheer" that can cut through a diamond like a knife through butter and settled the flashhead back into the mount. With that armory it might sound like we hunt fish in a barrel. Not quite. The mu cats can smell humans about a mile away, and four humans approach with  the subtlety of John Philip Sousa in his glory. Our usual tactic is to wait until radar tracking indicates that the cat has been stationary for some time and thus is probably sleeping. Then you move in and lob several explosive shells into it and hope that you hit a vital spot. If you missed or, worse, only wounded the cat, the hunt becoimjes a good, old-fashioned chase. Quite often the roles of hunter and hunted are exchanged. Then you move iip high fast and hope to pick it off from above it. If not, there's always the laser. One thing makes our team unique: Schultz. He's a rare type of telepath, a visual empath combined with controlled clairvoyance. Through Schultz, I could scout a fifteen-mile area in a few minutes, not by radar but by direct vision. The actual empathy was limited to vision, but Schultz could project any other sense as well. I value that dog more than the radar and sound amplifiers together. Schultz is slightly larger than most German Shepherds, due both to champion parents and the radiogenetic treatment that turned him into a mued esper. He weighs about one himdred fifty pounds, all solid muscle, and stands up to my waist -- and I'm not exactly tiny. His coat is a mixture of tan and brown fur, short and bristly. His face and head are typical, with the squared-off muzzle and blunt forehead. R odgers gave us the location of northeast at an easy #. The violent blast of the air from the fans quieted down to a low whine under the hull as the automatics cut in. The dead steers were visible from a good distance away. I set the airboat down a few yards away from the carcasses. They had been dead for about twelve hours in the sun and were beginning to decay. But most of the massive bulk was still warm. One of the gargantuan slobs of 'beef that had been gor from their bellies would have filled the panther, but the four were each gorged slightly, just enough to fill the stomach of the cat. This was a killer, the worst kind of mu. We examined the tracks in the soft clay; the fight had crushed the grass down into a soft pulp and turned the soil. The tracks were panther's, a complete single set. I wanted Shultz to see this. SchultZi come here, boy, I called to him. What, Barry-man? He jumped from the airboat and trott over to me. Sniff the tracks. It only took him a moment. Panther, Very big one. IF He looked up at me, with a gleam in his eye. He sensed the brutality of panther now. When you train an ordinary dog to hunt, he develops a reflex. But Schultz is more than a dog; he can sense emotioils and motives and has a deep sense of justice. Maybe revenge would be a better word, but it's all the same thing in practice. We started moving outward in a spiral pattern. We didn't have any dues as to which direction the panther had taken, and the spiral would cover all directions very thoroughly. It was six o'clock now, and the sun was almost down. Jesse watched the radar anxiously as Bill fiddled with the controls on the antitank gun. Rodgers was fidgeting with his #gauge, running his fingers over the carved receiver lovingly. He handled it as if he was familiar with it. A novice would be clumsy with the heavy gun, but he appeared to know the feel of it well. That was some relief, anyway; a good shot mit come in handy. But he would be more trouble than he was worth if he didn't stay put and keep out of our way. He didn't look too bad, for an amateur; he was heavily buht, for his weight, and not too much of him was fat. Maybe he would be useful. But maybe I'm just a perpetual optimist. I turned to Jesse, "Anything yet?" "Not a thing, Barry. It's getting dark, too. Better fit the sniperscopes onto the #-gauges." "Sure thing, Jesse." I snapped the intercom on and signaled Bill to bring the infrared assemblies down from the mount and teach Rodgers how to use one. After a moment he climbed down from the mount and set a box of Farnsworth 'scopes down next to Rodgers. He unpacked one, snapped it into a magnetic Bushnell mount and slipped it onto the grooved receiver of his shotgun. He slid the power supply and infrared source onto the gun and checked to see if the balance wasn't disturbed too much. It wasn't. He switched the cadmium cell on and gazed into the image tube; in a few seconds the image cleared and the infrared waves illuminated the ground below. He clicked it off. "Think you can put that sniperscope together, Mr. Rodgers?" Bill's tone was level; that meant only that he was annoyed. "I can try. I've fooled around with telescopic sights before. Thirty-X Weavers, mostly." "Really?" The slightest bit of sarcasm dripped through this time. Bill is a confirmed C # mic, and we're used to it, but Rodgers wasn't. Rodgers snapped the tube onto his mount and correctly placed it on the receiver. He glanced back at Bill's gun and snapped the rest of the assembly on. Then he flipped the switch. I heard a crack and whirled. Rodgers had flinched and dropped the gun. Bill dived for it and caught the magazine soon enough to prevent the 'scope from being smashed on the airboat floor. "You son of a Gila monster," he snapped quietly, "that's a five hundred dolW instrument! You reversed the pdarity and got hit by # volts. You're lucky you didn't fry. Next time check the wiring, okay?" Bill walked back up to the gun mount and left Rodgers sligbtly confused and with a bruised ego. Jesse and I returned to our controls. After a few minutes I glanced back at our employer; he was slouched in his seat, an expression on his face as plain as a neon sign. If so much as a grasshopper moved down ibelow, he'd empty five slugs into it as fast as he could squeeze them off. I set the controls on automatic and turned around to speak to him. "Rodgers," I said, "I know you hired us. On your land you're the boss. But up hete I call the shots. "When we spot the panther, let Crawford handle it. We're going to approach the cat while it sleeps and we'll lay an artillery shell into its head from five hundred yards. If you start popping off slu from the shotgun at that range you'll accomplish two things: waste ammunition and wake up the panther. If you've ever seen thirtyfive feet of black, muscled hell jump seventy feet into the air straight at you, you'd realize why we like to be nice and sneaky about it." Evidently Rodgers was still nursing the bruise on his ego. "Everret, what d'you think I am? Some kind of fool? I won't crack up. I want that panther." I could plainly see that I'd had no effect at all on him. I just sat back and (hoped that Bill's first shot would score before Rodgers started blasting away. About twenty minutes later Jesse turned to me. "Barry, I've got a blip on the screen. Stationary. Right size and shape." "What's the relative position to us," r almost shouted. It was northeast, about two o'clock. "Want to try an approach, Barry," Jesse asked. "Not yet. I'm going to let Schultz take me out there." "Good hunting." As soon as I had thought his name, Schultz stood up and walked over to me. Good boy, Schultzie, Ready for a trip? Sure, Barry-man, Where do you want to see? I checked the range on Jesse's scope; # yards to the northeast. Now, okay. He brought me out there, eight hundred yards from the airboat. The controls were still on auto. I felt myself go limp and my eyes close as I went into empathy. The effect is like a zoom camera with you inside. It was the panther, all right. I could see it perfectly, two hundred yards away, through the low, wide angle of the dog's mental eyes. Strange, no one's ever gotten an empath animal to project the master's eyes out there; they can only send out their own eye and hook you in on what they see. The cat was sleeping, digesting the rich beef from the steers, I guessed. The body symmetry was IF perfect, not deformed like many natural mues. It was every inch of the thirty-five feet, and more. The sleek, black hide stretched out glistening like a living sphinx, cold as ebony and as hard. Suddenly I felt a great heaving sensation, and my thoughts were tom from the cat with sickening force. Pain seared my mind, my eyes; my entire head ached with a deep, continuous throb. My vision was cut off; for several seconds I was totally blinded. The pain spread slowly down my neck and my face muscles cramped into a grimace. Fax away, I heard Schultz yelping. I opened my eyes, my real ones, and saw Rodgers standing over me, shaking my arm, and Jesse coming toward us with blood in his eyes. Schultz was whimpering at my feet. Rodgers had broken the empathetic coupling, a painful experience for both Schultz and me. I picked Schultz up and put him in my lap, trying to soothe his body and mind, in him in very precarious balance. It had been laid bare as if a steel rasp had ibeen drawn across it. "You double-dyed son of a sand lizard!" Jesse snapped out at Rodgers. "You broke empathy between Barry and the dog! They were in mental coupling, and you forcibly cut it off. You might have ruined his mind, as well as the dog's." Rodgers was almost cowering. I would have, with Jesse looking as if he were out for blood. "I didn't know," he croaked. "I saw the airboat go on hover and Everret slump down in his seat. I thought he was sick." "Sit down and shut up, Rodgers! And stay theie until we're back at your ranchhouse," I roared at him, fighting down an enormous headache. Rodgers fell back into the seat as if he had been pushed. He was licking his self-respect for a third time. Poor old guy, I thought. He gets pushed around down there, on his own property, and he gets pushed around up here, by the men he hired. Well, we coul't afford to have somebody cutting up in the aiiboat. Once we got back down I would recommend a good analyst. Then I remembered what I'd seen out there. "Jesse, that's the panther out there all right. It's asleep there now. Keep an eye on the radar image. If it so much as blinks sing out loud. Bill, d'you hear that?" I'd cut the intercom in previously. In answer, I heard the automatic guidance mechanism in, for the laser and the antitank gun, and the slow whine and crackle of the storage capacities filled the cabin. Ozone soon became noticeable; each of the forty capacitors had a capacity of # "Bill, when I give the word, fire the armor-piercer into the cat. Set it on ten-second delayed action so I can get out there with Schultz in time." "All set up here, Barry, the intercom buzzed. I drove the boat in to five hundred yards and then set hex down easy on the hard ground. The muzzle of the antitank gun swung up a few degrees as the controls locked into the radar. Bill adjusted for windage after he consulted a portable anemometer built into the mouht. "Mark," I said. Up in the control room, Bill started the timer. Schultz, I thought softly, how are you feeling? All right, Barryman. Head still hurt a little. He sounded weak. Thats okay, Schultz, so does mine. How about another trip? Just a short one, Barry-man. Need rest... eight... nine... ten... fire... plus one." The timer lights on both panels blinked patterns. Then I was back looking at the panther. In the back of my mind I heard the muffled roar of the gun and felt the shock pass through the springs of the absorbers and diminish to nothing. The link was weak, and the panther was faint and blurry in Schultz's mind. But I saw it suddenly awaken and leap out of the way, just as the flash of the explosion shot through my mind and Schultz's. A miss. I pulled myself back to the airboat. Rodgers had started yelling in triumph, expecting a chorus. Finding himself quite alone, he died out fast. Jesse and I were watching the radar intently, as was Bill in the mount up above. The blip was moving fast and toward the center of the screen. Toward us. I rammed the fans into high and climibed to three hundred feet as fast as it would move. The panther was already visible and closing fast, a black strip streaking through the low grass and brush. "It dodged that shell without blinking twice," Jesse snorted. He clicked off the safety of the #-gauge. I shook my head. "Hold it, Jesse. And Bill, don't cut the laser loose. We'll let it tire itself out jumping at us, and then we'll tail it until it drops. We'll finisih it off." The panther was much closer now; its movements were plain. It was coming in at about four hundred miles an hour and was about one hundred yards away. In a fraction of a second it was under us, leaping. It reached halfway to us, a hundred and fifty feet. You might call that a record of some kind, but at the time I didn't notice that. Rodgers, who had been frozen since the miss, suddenly leaped to the side of the airboat and fired the five shots in his shotgun at the cat. It touched ground as the last shot rang out and bounded off with a roar of pain and rage that shook the airboat like a toy boat in a hurricane. I'd expected Rodgers to crack, but I was surprised at his skill. Three of the slugs hit home. They must have lodged in the thighs or low in the shoulders, because the cat moved away at about two hunfor the airboat to tail, luckily enough. Still, this wouldn't stop Jesse from giving Rodgers a pretty bad time. I glanced back at the spare seat. Jesse had grabbed Rodgers by the collar and hoisted him up from IF where he had fallen after the cat's roar. He had pulled the rancher uip to face level, so that Rodger's feet dangled a few inches from the deck plate. He stared into Rodgers's eyes for a moment, then lowered him back to his seat. When Jesse looks at anyone that way, words are inadequate. At least printable words are. I checked the radar once more and found that the cat had raced ailmost out of range of the screen. L cut the automatic pilot in, to follow the panther at half a mile, with steady compensation for increases and decreases in the speed. I didn't want that cat to turn and fight until it was dead tired, and if we moved in any closer than five hundred yards it would probably do just that. So we would patiently keep up with the animal and kill it when it couldn't fight back. I didn't blame Jesse one bit for humiliatinig Rodgers, but I wanted to clarify a few things with him before he decided not to pay our bills after the hunt was over. "I told you we couldn't afford any trigger-happy idiots on this trip, Mr. Rodgers. It makes no difference that you're a crack shot. That panther is potentially dangerous to neighboring communities, and if he gets past us the responsibility is on your head. But until we're through, you're going to stay put. The only reason we're not taking you back to your ranchhouse now is that we can't spare the time." He stood up and faced me. So now he was going to make his stand, I thought. "Everret, you seem to forget who hired you. As long as I employ you, I do what I want. And if you think that I'm gomig to let myself be pushed around because I shot at the beast, you're crazy. I want that panther dead and its head above my mantle." H is voice was arrogant, and if he had omitted that last sentence I might have slugged him. Not only would Rodgers fail even to come close to bagging that game himself, but mu game is considered varmint game. A mu trophy was a little out of taste, like stuffing and mounting a tomcat, only on a larger scale. "Rodgers, that head goes to nobody. Even if you earned it -- and you won't -- the corpse will be vaporized by a wide-angle laser. If you want a trophy, hire a guide to take you out and find a good-sized mu bear. But I won't give you a panther. Anyway, all you accomplished with the #-gauge was to give that panther. You might as well have injected it with a kilo of adrenalin." "What work? Just turn the laser on that cat." His stupidity was amazing. "Look, Mr, Rodgers, that laser is for use at point-blank range and at that, only for emergencies. If I used it and missed, the beam would keep on going. They've bounced weaker ones than that off the moon, and with small relative divergence. If that laser tore through a town, it would make the Chicago fire look like a marshmallow-roast." I turned away and checked the radar. The panther had dowed down to a himdired miles per hour already. It seemed to be slightly tiring. I hoped. We kept up the chase for another six hours. Jesse and Crawford were standing radar watch while I dozed. Rodgers was out like a light. The next thing I knew, Jesse was shaking me roughly "It's stopped, Barry, We're still a mile from it; I pulled back the extra five htmdred yards when I saw its pace falter and halt. We're hovering now, in the clear." The intercom was already on. 'What do you think. Bill?" I asked. "Want to try to move in and drop a shell from close range or stay back and pick it o from here?" "I'd move in, Barry," replied Bill. "That cat is half-dead, and we've got the speed on it. Closer, I'd have a better chance of getting a good one in, and the cat would have less time to dodge." "Same here, Barry," Jesse said. "Wait any longer, and the cat might rest up enough to put on a fresh bit of speed and get away. But now we've got him." I felt the same way; I gunned the fans forward, and moved in a quarter of a mile closer. No movement on the screen. We moved in the other quarter mile, and there was still no sign of life from the blip. So far, so good. I noticed Schultz at my feet; he seemed nervous. I called to him. Whafs wrong, Schultz? Wrong way, Barry-man, Cat not there. What? Are you saying its dead? No, Cat behind us. T his confused me. I checked the radar and pressed the systemcheck button. It was functioning perfectly. I projected a mental caress to the dog, and silently cursed Rodgers for ruining Schultz's mind. We were about a hundred yards from the panther now; through the infrared sight it was visible plainly, a igiant thing, breathing fast and labored. The intercom buzzed on. It was BiU. "Barry, something's wrong w#th the laser auto control. It's faced # degrees to the south, directly away from the target." I told him to run a circuit check, switch to manual control and junk the auto imtil we returned to the hanger in Denver. "When you're finished with the laser controls," I told him, "get a fix on the panther and lob a shell in." He aimed and gave a ten-second warning. Jesse and I were glued to the radar. The gun fired, and the shell exploded directly on target; through the sniperscopes we could see the corpse. The head was blown off. Then there was a new blip on the screen. I flipped a spotlight on and saw Rodgers running toward the oat. The next few seconds went by very, very fast. I saw the panther's body waver and disappear and stood gawking as Rodgers turned, IF puzzled, then froze in terror. He raised the Sgauge and fired, but he didn't have enough time to get off a second shot. He was smart enough candlepower beacon was impossible; he shielded his face and threw the gun down, turned and ran. A long shadow engulfed the airboat, and the black panther leaped over us at Rodgers. He had time for only one scream... The panther turned back toward us; then I saw the laser's ruby tube swing down fast at the thing in front of us and come alive with scarlet in a long slash as the cat jumped once more, and the beam charred a long, disemboweling slash that clove the panther from head to loins. It fell in front of the boat, almost crushing us. Jesse and I dismounted and ran in front of the burnt corpse. The slit eyes stared at us still, carrying a message of agony and hate. I leveled my shotgun and fired pointblank into the left eye and heard the answering explosion that shattered the skull. I t was a perfect natural defense for a hunted animal. Like Schultz, the panther could project sensory images into our minds, but in this cat the images could be controlled. It showed us nonexistent blips on the radar and false visual images. That's why the laser autocontrol seemed haywire. It was following the real panther. And Schultz couldn't be fooled by the mental broadcasts, any more than we could be fooled by someone whispering into our ears. Schultz must have felt like a two-year-old child trying to warn its parents of a burglar. It could attract their attention but couldn't communicate. Anyway, that's the only mu so far with this type of power. Possibly the first of many, though. If so, it'll be a long season for us. Something new in science fictioni A brand-new magazine devoted to bringing you the best in science fiction from other countries -- a 'must' for collectors, and reading pleasure for any science-fiction readerl Stories from -- on sale at all good newsstands sooni IF  Serial The demons were loose -- on a world that bad no weapon to battle them but technology! Illustrated by Morrow B aines, president of Consolidated Warfare Service, the munitions subsidiary of an international chemical and dye cartel, has magician of the highest repute, for a demonstration of his abilities. Accompanied by his executive assistant, ing skeptic, he visits Wares rented palazzo in the Italian resort town of Positano, where Ware provides a minor exhibition of alchemy, changing two tears successively into blood, gold and lead under controlled circumstances, This does not satisfy Baines, who has something much bigger in mind. Ware warns him that all magic, regardless of degree, is based upon the invocation of angels or demons -- mostly the latter -- and that it is expensive, dangerous and difficult, Baines already knows this from an earlier visit to Monte Albano, a sanctuary of white magicians. Strictly as a further test, Baines commissions Ware to procure by magic the death of the current Governor of California, Ware agrees, Ginsberg, a man of slightly odd tastes, is intrigued by Ware's obvious confidence and, in a private interview, attempts to ask a favor of the magician, but doesn't succeed in specifying what it is. Ware offers him the use of a succubus, but is refused. At Monte Albano, the white magicians have divined something of the nature of Baines's forthcoming major commission and have reason to believe it may be a major disaster for the whole world. Under the terms of the Grand Covenant, under which all magic operates, they are entitled to impose upon Ware . a white magician as an observer, providing that the white magician does not interfere in any way with Ware's blameless man, who does not relish the assignment. In the meantime, Baines, who has returned to Rome, receives news of the death of the Governor of California, as specified. He decides to return to Positano, taking with him this time not only Jack Ginsberg, but also a scientist of his firm, DR. server. Thanks to various delays en route, Baines, Ginsberg, Hess and Fr. Domenico all arrive for the next invocation of Hell at the same time -- during the Christmas season. Baines's second commission is a further test, this time the death of an eminent theoretical physicist with no known enemies, Ware agrees and also consents to allow Baines's party to watch the process of invokiitig the demon involved; he bars Fr, Domenico, however. The monk subsequently divines that this in any case is not the major disaster he has been sent to observe. Prior to the experiment. Ware shows Hess, in whom he sees a potential ally, his laboratory and apparatus and explains to him some of the theory of magic. Hess is unBefore the group, Ware then conhe has pacts, to tempt and destroy the next victim. It is a fearful process and leaves nobody in any doubt that Ware is exactly what he says he is. Then all must wait for the sending to take effect. During this period, Jack Ginsberg succeeds in expressing to Ware what it is that he wants: He would like to learn the Art. Ware', who by now has realized that Baines's next assignment will be so huge that he must have assistants, says he will consider this if Jack will first sample the banquet he thinks he wants. At Ginsberg's assent, Ware does send him the previously profferred succubus, Jack is both revolted and captured -- that is, he becomes addicted. duly dies, and Baines reveab at last what has been at the back of his mind all the time: '# would like to let all the major demons out of Hell for one night, turn them loose in the world with no orders and no restrictions, and see just what it is they would do if they were left on their own hooks like that.' Ware consents, but this time asks Fr. Domenico to be present at the ceremony, in case it should get out of control. Fr. Domenico must agree, but points out that it would be safer if he could call together a whole convocation of white magicians at Monte Albano, to stand by in case of disaster. Ware on reflection decides that this is a wise precaution and assents. Because of the time needed for preparatioyis, and for Fr. Domenico's trip, the experiment is scheduled for Easter. Tather Domenico found getting north to Monte Albano a relatively easy journey despite all the snow; he was able to take the rapido most of the way. Absurdly, he found himseif worrying about the snow. If it lasted, there would be devastating floods in the spring. But that was not the only affliction the spring had in store. After the journey, nothing seemed to go right. Only about half of the world's white magicians, a small number in any case, who had been summoned to the convocation had been able to make it, or had thought it worth the trip. One of the greatest. the aged archivist Fr. Bonfiglioli, had come all the way from Cambridge only to find the rigors of being portaged up the Mount too much for him. He was now in the hospital at the base of the Mount with a coronary infarct, and the prognosis was said to be poor. Luckily, Fr. Uccello had been able to come. So had Fr. Monteith, a venerable master of a great horde of creative (though often ineffectual) spirits of the cislunar sphere; Fr. Boucher, w(ho had commerce with some intellect of the recent past which was neither a mortal nor a Power, a commerce bearing all the earmarks of necromancy and yet not; Fr. Vance, in whose mind floated visions of magics which would not be comprehensible, let years to come! Fr. Anson, a brusque engineer-type who specialized in unclouding the minds of politicians; Fr. Selahny, a terrifying Kabbalist who spoke in parables and of whom it was said that no one since Leviathan had understood his counsel; Fr. Rosenblum, a dour, bearlike man who tersely predicted disasters and was always right about them; Fr. Atheling, a well-eyed grimorian who saw portents in parts of speech and lectured everyone in a tense nasal voice until the Director had to exile him to the library except when business was being conducted; and a gaggle of lesser men and their apprentices. These and the brothers of the Order gathered in the chapel of the monastery to discuss what might be done. There was no agreement from IF the outset. Fr. Boucher was of the firm opinion that Ware would not be permitted to work any such conjuration on Easter and that, hence, only minor precautions were necessary. Fr. Domenico had to point out that Ware's previous sending -- a comparatively minor one to be sure, but what was that saying about the fall of the sparrow? -- had been made without a sign of Divine intervention upon Christmas Eve. Then there was the problem of whether or not to try to mobilize the Oedestiai Princes and their subordinates. Fr. Atheling would have it that just putting these Princes on notice might provoke action against Ware, since there was no predicting what They might do, and hence would be in violation of the Covenant. He was finally olitshouted by Frs. Anson and Vance, with the obvious but not necessarily valid argument that the Princes must know all about the matter anyhow. How shaky that assumption was was revealed that night, when those bright angels were summoned one by one before the convocation for a council of war. Bright, terrible and enigmatic They were at any time, but at this calling They were in a state of spirit beyond the understanding of any of the masters present in the chapel. Aratron, chiefest of Them all, appeared to be indeed imaware of the forthcoming unleashing and disappeared with a roar when it was described. Phaleg, most military of spirits, seemed to know of Ware's plans, but would not discuss them and also vanished when pressed. Opheil the mercurial, too, was preoccupied, as though Ware's plotting were only a neghgihle distraction from some immensely greater thought. His answers grew shorter and shorter, and He finally lapsed into what, in a mortal, Fr. Domenico would have unhesitatingly called surliness. Finally -- although not intended as final, for the convocation had meant to consult all seven of the Olympians -- the water-spirit Phul when called up appeared fearsomely without a head, rendering converse impossible and throwing the chapel into a perilous uproar. "These are not good omens," Fr. Atheling said; and for the first time in his life, everyone agreed with him. It was agreed, also, that everyone but Fr. Domenico would remain at the Mount through the target day, to take whatever steps then appeared to be necessary; but there was precious little hope that they would be effective. Whatever was going on in Heaven, it appeared to leave small concern to spare for pleas from Monte Albano. Father Domenico went south again far earlier than he had planned, unable to think of anything but the mystery of that final, decapitate apparition. The ileaden skies returned him no answer. XV O n that penultimate morning, Theron Ware faced the final choice of which demons to call up, and for this he needed to repair to his laboratory, to check the book of pacts. Otherwise his preparations were all made. He had performed the blood sacrifices the previous evening and then had completely rearranged the furniture in the workroom to accommodate the Grand Circle -- the first time he had had need of it in twenty years -- the Lesser Circles and the Gateway. There were even special preparations for Fr. Domenico -- who had returned early and with a gratifyingly troubled countenance -- should it become necessary to ask the monk to call for Divine intervention; but Ware was tolerably sure it would not be. Though he had never attempted anything of this magnitude before, he felt the work in his fingertips, like a well practiced sonata. He was, however, astonished and disqmeted to find Dr. Hess already in the laboratory -- not only because of the potentialities for contamination, but at the inevitable conclusion that Hess had worked out how to placate the Guardian of the door. This man evidently was even more dangerous than Ware had guessed. "Do you want to ruin us all?" Ware demanded. Hess turned away from the Circle he had been inspecting and looked at Ware frankly. He was pale and hollow-eyed; not only had the fasting been hard on his spare frame -- that was a hazard every neophyte had to come to terms with -- but apparently he had not been sleeping much, either. He said at once: "No indeed. My apologies. Dr. Ware. My curiosity overcame me, I'm afraid.' "You didn't touch anything, P hope?" "Certainly not. I took your warnings about that with great seriousness, I assure you." "Well... probably no harm done, then. I can sympathize with your interest and even approve it, in part. But I'll be instructing you all in detail a little later today, and then you'll have ample time to inspect the arrangements; I do want you to know them intimately. But right now I still have some additional work to do, so if you don't mind..." "Quite." Hess moved obediently toward the door. As he was about to touch the handle. Ware added: "By the way, Dr. Hess: how did you deceive the Guardian?" Hess made no pretense of being puzzled by the question. "With a white pigeon and a pocket mirror I got from Jack." "Hmm. Do you know, that would never have occurred to me; these pagan survivals are mostly a waste of effort. Let's talk about it more, later; you may have something to teach me." Hess made a small bow and finished his departure. Forgetting him instantly. Ware stared at the Grand Circle for a moment and then walked around it clockwise to the lectern and unlocked the book of pacts. The stiff pages bent reassuringly in his hands. Each leaf was headed by the character or sign of a demon; below, in the special ink reserved for such matters -- gall, IF copperas, gum arabic -- was the text of Theron Waie's agreement with that entity, signed at the bottom hy Ware in his own blood and by the character of the demon repeated in its own hand. Leading all the rest was the seal, and also the characters, of Lucifuge Rofocale, which also appeared on the book's cover. There then followed eighty-nine others. It was Ware's sober belief, backed by infernal assurances he had reason to trust, that no previous magician had held so many spirits in thrall. After forty years, true, all the names would change, and Ware would have to force the reexecution of each pact, and so, again and again through the five hundred years of life he had bought from Hagith in his salad days as a white magician. Nevertheless it could be said that in the possession of this book. Ware was at least potentially the wealthiest mortal in all of (history, though to anyone else in the world the book would be worth nothing except as a curiosum. These spirits, not counting Lucifuge Rofocale, comprised the seventeen mfemal archangels of the Grand Grimoire and the sevenitytwo demons of the Descending Hierarchy once confined in the brazen vessel of Solomon the King: a fabulous haul indeed, and each captive commanding troops and armies of lesser spirits and more of them every minute (for these days, virtually everyone was damned; it had been this disoofvery which had first convinced Ware that the Rebellion was in faot going to succeed, probably by the year # A.D.; the many plain symptoms of chiliastic panic almdy being manifested amongst the laity were almost certainly due to be vindicated, for everyone was rushing incontinently into Hellmouth without even the excuse of an AntiChrist to mislead him. As matters stood now, Christ Himself would have to creep stealthily, hoping to be ignored, even into a cathedral to conduct a Mass, as in that panel of Hieronymus Bosch; the number of people who could not pronounce the Divine Name without a betraying stammer -- or their own names, for that matter -- had grown from a torrent to a deluge, and ridiculously, hardly any of them were claiming any fraction of the possible profits in this world. They did not even know that they were on the winning side, or even that there was more than one side. No wonder Ware had found so much fat in the cauldron, waiting to be skimmed.) But as Ware had already warned Baines, not all the spirits in the book were suitable for the experiment at hand. There were some like Marchosias, who hoped after an interval to be returned to the Celestial choirs. In this hope. Ware was grimly certain, they were mistaken, and the only reward they would receive would be from the Emperor of the Pit, that kind of reward customarily given to fair-weather friends and summer soldiers. In the meantime, the evils they could be persuaded or compelled to do were minor and hardly worth the effort of invoking them. One, whom Ware had already mentioned to Baines, Vassago, was even said in the Lesser Key and elsewhere to be "good by nature" -- not too trustworthy an ascription -- and indeed was sometimes called upon by white magicians. Others in the hierarchy, like Phoenix, controlled aspects of reality which were of little relevance to Baines's commission. , Taking up the pen of the Art, Ware made a list. When he was finished, he had written down forty-eight names. Considering the number of the Fallen, that was not a large muster; but he thought it would serve the purpose. He closed and locked the book and, after a pause to rebuke and torment the Guardian of his door, went out into the Easter morning to rehearse his Tanists. N o day, it seemed, had ever gone so slowly for Baines as this Easter, despite the diversion of the rehearsal; but at last it was night and over, and Ware pronounced himself ready to begin. The Grand Circle now on the parquetry of the refectory bore a generic resemblance to the circle Ware had composed on Christmas Eve, but it was a great deal bigger and much different in detail. The circle proper was made of strips of the skin of the sacrificial kid, with the hair still on it, fastened to the floor at the cardinal points with four naUs which. Ware had explained, had been drawn from the coffin of a child. On the northlAL, there rested the strips the body of a male bat which had been drowned in blood; on the norththe skull of a parricide; on the of whose diet they were now all privy. (Indeed, there had not been much of moment to the rehearsal, and Baines had inferred that its chief object had been to impart to the rest of them such items of unpleasant knowledge as this.) The triangle had been drawn inside the circle with a lump of haematite or lodestone. Under its base was drawn a figure consisting of a chi and a rho superimposed, resting IF on the line, with a cross to each side of it. Flanking the other two qides were the great candles of virgin wax, each stick sitting in the center of a crown of vervainThree circles for the operators -- Ware, Baines and Hess; Jack Ginsberg and Fr. Domenico would stand outside, in separate pentacles -- were inside the triangle, connected by a cross; the northern circle had drawn horns on it. At the pinnacle of the triangle sat a new brazier, loaded with newly consecrated charcoal. To the left side of the horned circle, which was to be Ware's, of course, was the lectern and the book of pacts, within easy reach. At the rear of the room, before the curtained door to the kitchen, was another circle, quite as big as the first, in the center of which was a covered altar. That had been empty this afternoon; but there now lay upon it the nude body of the girl Ware had used to address as Gretchen. Her skin was paper-white except for its markings and to Baines gave every appearance of being dead. A small twist of violet silk, nearly transparent and with some crumpled thing like a wad of tissue or a broken matzoh inside it, rested upon her navel. Her body appeared to have been extensively written upon with red and yellow greasepaint; some of the characters might have ibeen astrological, others more like ideograms or cartouches. In default of knowing their meaning or even their provenance, they simply made her look more naked. The main door closed. Everyone was now in place. Ware lit the candles and then the in the brazier. It was the task # Baines and Hess to feed the fire periodically, as the time wore on, the one with brandy, the other with camphor, taking care not to stumble over their swords or leave their circles in the process. As before, they had been enjoined to the strictest silence, especially should any spirit speak to them or threaten them. Ware now reached out to the lectern and opened his book. This time there were no preliminairy gestures and no portents; he simply began to recite in a gravid voice: "I conjure and command thee, Lucifuge Rofocale, by all the names wherewith thou mayest be constrained and bound, Satan, Randarey et per gratiam et diligentiam tuam habuisti ab eo hone nalatimanamilam, as I command thee, usor, dilapidatore, tentatore, seminatore, soignatore, devoratore, concitore, et seductore, where art thou? Thou who imposeth hatred and propagateth enmities, I conjure thee by Him, who hath created thee for this ministry, to fulfill my work! I cite thee, Colriziana, Offina, Alta, Nestera, Fuard, Menuet, Lucifuge Rofocale, arise, arise, arise!" T here was no sound; but suddenly there was standing in the other circle a dim, steaiming figure, perhaps eight or nine feet tidl. It was difficult to be sure what it looked like, partly because some of the altar could still be seen through it. To Baines it resembled a man with a shaven head bearing three long, twisted horns, eyes like a spectral tarsier's, a gaping mouth, a pointed chin. It was wearing a sort of jerkin, coppery in color, with a tattered ruff and a fringed skirt; below the skirt protruded two bandy, hooved legs and a fat, hairy tail which twitched restlessly. "What now?" this creature said in an astonishingly pleasant voice. The words, however, were blurred. "I have not seen my son in many moons." Unexpectedly, it giggled, as though pleased by the pun. "I adjure thee, speak more clearly," Ware said. "And what I wish, thou knowst full well." "Nothing may be known until it is spoken." The voice seemed no less blurred to Baines, but Ware nodded. "I desire then to release, as did the Babylonian from under the seal of the King of Israel, blessed be he, from Hell-mouth into the mortal world all those demons of the False Monarchy whose names I shall subsequently call and whose characters and signs I shall exhibit in my book, providing only that they harm not me and mine and that they shall return whence they came at dawn, as it is always decreed." "Providing no more than that?" the figure said. "No prescriptions? No desires? You were not always so easily satisfied." "None," Ware said firmly. "They shall do as they will for this their period of freedom, except that they harm none here in my circles and obey me when recalled, by rod and pact." The demon glanced over its transparent shoulder. "I see that you have the appropriate fumigant to cense so many great lords; and my servants and satraps will have their several rewards in their deeds. So interesting a commission is new to me. Well. What have you for my hostage, to fulfill the forms?" Ware reached into his vestments. Baines half expected to see produced another tear-vase, but instead Ware brought out by the tail a live mouse, which he threw over the brazier as he had the vase, except not so far. The mouse ran directly toward the demon, circled it frantically three times outside the markings and disappeared in the direction of the rear door, cheeping like a sparrow. Baines looked toward Ahktoi, but the cat did not even lick its chops. "You are skilled and punctilious, my son. Call then when I have left, and I will send my ministers. Let nothing remain undone, and much will be done before the black cock crows." "It is well. By and under this promise I discharge thee. Omgroma, Epyn, Seyok, Satany, Degony, Eparygon, Galliganon, Zogogen, Ferstigon, Lucifuge Rofocale, begone, begone, begone!" "I shall see you at dawn." The prime minister of Lucifer wavered like a flame and, like a flame, went out. Hess promptly cast camphor into the brazier. Recovering with a start from a near paralysis of fasIF cination, Baines sprinkled brandy after it. The fire puffed. Without looking around, Ware brought out his lodestone, which he held in his left hand; with his right, he dipped the iron-headed point of his wand into the coals. Little licking points of blue light ran up it almost to his hand, as though the rod too had been coated with brandy. Holding the tonguing wand out before him like a dowsing-rod, Ware strode ceremoniously out of the Grand Circle toward the altar. As he walked, the air around him began to grumble, as though a storm were gathering about his shaven head, but he paid the noise no attention. He marched on directly to the locus spirifus and on into it. S ilence fell at once. Ware said clearly: "I, Theron Ware, master of masters, Karcist of Karcists, hereby undertake to open the book and the seals thereof, which were forbidden to be broken until the breaking of the Seven Seals before the Seventh Throne. I have beheld Satan as a bolt falling from heaven. I have crushed the dragons of the pit beneath my heel. I have commanded angels and devils. I undertake and command that all shall be accomplished as I bid, and that from beginning to end, alpha to omega, world without end, none shall harm us who abide here in this temple of the Art of Arts. Aglan, Tetraphares retragrammaton olyaram ir ion esytion existion eryona onera orasym mozm messias soter Emanuel Sabaoth Adonay, te adoro, et te invoco. Amen." He took another step forward and touched the flaming tip of the rod to the veil of silk on the belly of the still girl. A little curl of blue-gray smoke began to rise from it, like  ignited incense. Ware now retreated, walking backwards, toward the Grand Circle. As he did so, the fire on the wand died; but in the mortuary silence there now intrude a Ct hissing, much like the dSirst lotion of a squib. And there were indeed fireworks in incqtion. As Baines stared in gluttonous hypnosis, a small fountain of manycolored sparks began to rise from the fuselike tissue on the abdomen of the body on the altar. More smoke poured forth. The air was becoming distinctly hazy. The body itself seemed to be burning now, the skin peeling bade like segments of an orange. Baines heard behind him an aborted retching noise in Jack Ginsberg's voice, but could not himself understand what the occasion for nausea could be. The body -- whatever it had once been -- was now only a simulacrum made of pith or papiermache, and charged with some equivalent of Greek fire. Indeed, there was already a strong taint of gunpowder overriding the previous odors of incense and camphor. Baines rather welcomed it -- not that it was familiar, for it had been centuries since black powder had been used in his trade, but because he had 'begun to find the accumulation of less businesslike perfumes cloying. Gradually, everything melted away into the smoke exceipt an underlay of architectural outline, against which stood a statues lit more along one side than the other by one oif the two sources of fire. Hess coughed briefly; otherwise theic was silence except for the hissing of the pyre. Sparks continued to fly upward, and sometimes, for an instant, they seemed to form scriibbled incomprehensible words in the frame of the unreal wall. Ware's voice sounded remotely from one of the statues: "Baal, great king and commander in the East, of the Order of the Fly; obey me!" Something began to form in the distance. Baines had the clear impacssion that it was ibehind the altar, behind the curtained door, indeed outside the palazzo altogether; but he could see k nevertheless. It came forward, growing, until he could see that it was a thing like a man, in a neat surcoat and snow-white linen, but with two supernumerary heads, the one on the left like a toad's, the Other like a cat's. It swelled soundlessly until at some moment it was inapguably in the rectory and then, still silently, had grown past them and was gone. "Agares, duke in the East, of the Order of the Virtues; obey me!" Again, a distant transparency, and silent. It came on very slowly, manifesting like a comely old man carrying a goshawk upon his wrist. Its slowness was necessitous, for it was ridii astride an amUing croc odile. Its eyes were closed, and its lips moved incessantly. Gradually, it too swelled past. "Gamygyn, marquis and president of Cartagra; obey mei" This grew to be something like a small horse, or perhaps an ass, modest and unassuming. It dragged behind it ten naked men in chains. "Valefor, powerful duke; obey me!" A black-maned lion, again with three heads, the other two human, one wearing the cap of a hunter, the other the wary smile of a thief. It passed in a rush, without even a wind to mark its going. "Barbatos, great count and minister of Satanachia; obey me!" But this was not one figure; it was four, like four crowned kings. With it and past it poured three companies of soldiers, their heads bowed and their expressions shuttered and still under steel caps. When all this troop had vanished, it was impossible to guess which among them had been the demon, or if the demon had ever appeared. "Paimon, great king, of the Order of the Dominions, obey me!" S uddenly after all the hissing silence there was a blast of sound, and the room was full of capering things carrying contorted tubes and bladders which might have been intended as musical instruments. The noise, however, resembled most closely a drove of pigs being driven down the chute of a slaughterhouse. Among the bawling. IF squealing dancers a crowned man rode upon a dromedary, bawling wordlessly in a great hoarse voice. The beast it rode on chewed grimly on some bitter cud, its eyes squeezed shut as if in pain. "Sytry" Ware shouted. Instantly there was darkness and quiet, except for the hissing, which now had a faint overtone as of children's voice. "Jussus secreta libenter detfgit feminarum, eas ridens ludificansque ut se luxorise nudent; great prince, obey me!" This sweet and lissome thing was no less monstrous than the rest; it had a glowing human body, but was winiged and had the ridiculously small, smirking head of a leopard. At the same time, it was beautiful, in some way that made Baines feel both sick and eager at the same time. As it passed. Ware seemed to be pressing a ring against his lips. "Lerajie, powerful marquis; EliAs they were called together, so these three appeared together: the first an archer clad in green, with quiver and a nocked bow whose arrow dripped venom; the second, a knight with a scepter and a pennonbearing lance; the third, an armed soldier clad in red. In contrast to their predecessor, there was nothing in the least monstrous about their appearance, nor any due as to thedr sjeres and offices, but Baines found them no less alarming for all that. "Ayporos,  mighty earl and prince: obey me!" Baines felt himself turning sick even before this creature appeared. and from the sounds around him, so did the others, even including Ware. There wis no sipeoial reason for this apparent in its aspect, which was so grotesque as to have been comic under other oLreumstanoes: it had the body of an angel, with a lion's head, the webbed feet of a goose and the scut of a deer. 'Transform, transform!" Ware cried, thrusting his wand into the brazier. The visitant promptly took on the total appearance of an angel, crown to toe, but the effect of the presenoe of something filthy and obscene remained. "Haborym, strong duke, obey me!" This was another man-thing of the three-headed race -- thou the apparent relationship, Baines realized, must be pure accident -- the human one bearing two stars on its forehead, the others of a serpent and a cat. In its right hand it carried a brazing fire-brand which it shook at them as it passed. "Naberius, valiant marquis, obey me!" At first it seemed to Baines that there had been no response to this call. Then he saw movement near the floor. A black cock with bleeding, empty eye-sockets was fluititediig around the outsidie of the Grand Circle. Ware menaced it with the wand, and it crowed hoarsely and was gone. "Glasyalabolas, mighty president, obey mo! This appeared to be simply a winged man until it smiled, when it could be seen to have the teeth of a dog. There were flecks of fb a m at its mouth. It passed sountSeBsly. ## In the silence, Baines oouiLd hear Ware turning a page in his book of pacts and remembered to cast more brandy into the brazier. The body on the altar had apparently long since been consumed; Baines could not remember how long it had been since he had seen the last of the word-forming sparks. The thick gray haze persisted, however. "Bune, thou strong duke, obey me!" This apparition was the most marvelous yet, for it approached them borne on a galleon, which sank into the floor as it came nearer until they were able to look down through the floor onto its deck. Coiled there was a dragon with the familiar three heads, these being of dog, griffin and man. Shadowy figures, vaguely human, toiled around it. It continued to sink until it was behind them, and presumably thereafter. Its passage left Baines aware that he was trembling -- not from fright, exactly, for he seemed to have passed beyond that, but from the very exhaustion of this and other emotions and possibly also from the sheer weariness of having stood in one spot for so long. Inadvertently, he sighed. "Silence," Ware said in a low voice. "And let nobody weaken or falter at this point. We are but half done with our calling -- and of those remaining to be invoked, many are far more powerful than any we've yet seen. I warned you before, this Art takes physical strength as well as courage." He turned another page. "Astapowerful duke, obey me!" E ven Baines had heard of this demon, though he could not remember where, and watched it materialize with a stirring of curiosity. Yet it was nothing remarkable in the light of what he had seen already: on angelic figure, at once beautlM and foul, seated astride a dragon. It carried a viper in its right hand. He remembered belatedly that these spirits, never having been matter in the first place, had to borrow a body to make appearances like this and would not necessarily pick the same one each time; the previous descriptioa of Astaroth that he bad read, he now recalled, had been that of a piebaM Negro woman riding on an ass. As the creature passed him, it smiled into his face, and the stench of its breath nearly knocked him down. "Asmoday, strong and powerful king, chief of the power of Amaymon, angel of chance, obey me!" As he called. Ware swept off his hot with his left hand, taking care, Baines noted, not to drop the lodestone as he did so. This king also rode a dragon, and also had three heads -- bull, man and ram. All three heads breathed fire. The creature's feet were webbed, as were its hands, in which it carried a lance and pennon; and it had a serpent's tail. Fearsome enough; but Baines was beginning to note a certain narrowness of invention among these infernal artisans. It also occurred to him to wonder, fortunately, whether this very IF repetitiveness was not deliberaite, intended to tire him into inaittenitiveness or lure him into the oairelessness of comtempt. This thing might kill me if I even closed my eyes, he lemanded hims elf. "Furfur, great earl, obey mel" This anigel appeared as a hart and was past them in a single bound, its tail streaming fire like a comet. Halpas, gjeat earl, obey me!" There was nothing to this apparition but a stockdove, also quickly gone. Ware was calling the names now as rapidly as he could manage to turn the pages, perhaps in recognition of the growing weariness of his Tanists, perhaps even of his own. The demons flashed by in nightmare parade: Raym, earl of the Order of the Thrones, a man with a crow's head; Separ, a mermaid wealing a ducal crown; Saburac, a lion-headed soldier upon a pale horse; Bifrons, a great ead in the shape of a gigantic flea; Zagan, a griffm-winged buU; Andras, a raven-headed angel with a bright sword, astride a black wolf; Andrealphus, a peacock appearing amid the noise of many unseen birds; Amduscias, a unicorn among many musicians; Dantalian, a mighty duke in the form of a man but showing many faces both of men and women, with a book in his right band; and at long last, that mighty king created next after Lucifer and the first to fell in battle before Michael, formeriy of the Order of the Virtues, Belial himself, beautiful end #adly in a chariot of fire as he iiad been worshipped in Babykm. "Now, great spirits," Ware said, "because ye have diligently answered me and siwn yoorseilYes to my demands, I do hereby license ye to depart, without injury to any here. ready to come at the appointed hour, when I shall duly exorcise and conjure you by your rites and seals. Until then, ye abide free. Amen." He snuffed out the fire in the brazier with a closely fitting lid on which was graven the Third or Secret Seal of Solomon. The murk in the refectory began to lift. "All right," Ware said in a matter of fact voice. Strangely, he seemed much less tired than he had after the conjuration of Marchosias. over -- or rather, it's begun. Mr. Ginsberg, you can safely leave your circle now and turn on the lig." When Ginsberg had done so. Ware also snuffed the candles. In the loght of the shaded electrics, the hall seemed in the throes of a Peerless dawn, although in fact the time was not past midnight. There was nothing on the altar now but a small heap of fine gray ash. "Do we really have to wait it out in here?" Baines said, feeling himself sagging. "I should think we'd be a lot more comfortable in your office -- and in a ibetter position to find out what's going on, too." "We must remain here," Ware said firmly. "That, Mr. Baines, is why I asked you to bring fai your transistor radio -- to keep track of both the world and the rime. For approxiinside these imniediiate walls will be the only safe place on all the Earth." T rappimigs, litter and all, the refectxwy now reminded Baines incongruously of an initaaition room in a college fraterniity house just after itihe last night of Hell Week. Hess was asleep on the long table that earlier had home Ware's consecrated instruments. Jack Ginsberg lay on the floor near the main door, napping fitfully, mumbling and sweating. Theron Ware, after again warning everyone not to touch anything, had dusted off the altar and gone to sleep -- apparently quite soundly -- upon that, still robed and gowned. Only Baines and Fr. Domenico remained awake. The monk, having prowled once around 'the margins of the room, had found an unsuspected low window behind a curtain and now stood with his back to them all looking out at the black world, hands locked behind his back. Baines sat on the floor with his own back propped against the wall next to the electric furnace, the transistor radio pressed to his ear. He was brutally uncomfortable, but he had found by experiment that this was the 'best place in the hall for radio reception -- barring, of course, his actually entering one of the Circles. Even here, the reception was not very good. It wavered in and out maddeningly, even on powerful stations like Radio Luxembourg, and wias liable to tearing blasts of static. These were usually followed, at intervals of a few seconds to several minutes, by bursts or rolls of thunIF der in the sky outside. Much of the time, too, as was usual,  the dear spaces were occupied by nothing but music and oommerdals. And thus far, what little news he had been able to pick up had been vaguely disappointing. There had been a major train wreck in Colorado; a freighter was foundering in a blizzard in ithe North Sea; in Guatemala, a small dam had burst, burying a town in an enormous mudslide; an earthquake was reported in Corinth -- the usual budget of natural or near-natural disasters for any day. In addition, the Chinese had detonated another hydrogen device; there had been another raiding incident on the Israeili-Jordanian border; black tribesmen had staged a rape and massacre on a government hospital in Rhodesia; the poor were marching on Washington again; the Soviet Union had announced that it would not be able to recover three dogs and a monkey it had put in orbit a week ago; the U.S. gained another bloody inch in Vietnam, and Premier Ky put his foot in it; and... All perfectly ordinary, all going to prove what everyone of good sense already knew, that there was no safe place on the Earth either inside this room or without it, and probably there never had been. What, Baines began to wonder, was the profit in turning loose so many demons, at so enormous an expenditure of time, effort and money, if the only result were to be just like reading any morning's newspaper? Of course, it might be that interesting private outrages were also being committed, but many newspaper and other publishers made fortunes on those in ordinary times, and in any event he could never hear of more than a fraction of them over this idiot machine. Probably he would just have to wait until days or weeks later, when the full record and history of this night had been assembled and digested, when no doubt its full enormity might duly appear. He should have expected nothing else. After all, the full impact of a work of art is never visible in the sketches. All ithe same, he was obstinately disappointed to be deprived of the artist's excitement of watching the work growing on the canvas. Was there anything that Ware could do about that? Almost surely not, or he would have done it already; it was clear that he had understood the motive behind the commission as well as he had understood its nature. Besides, it would be dangerous to wake him -- he would need all his strength for the latter half of the experiment, when the demons began to return. Resentfully, but with some resignation too, Baines realized that he himself had never been the 'artist here. He was only the patron, who could watch the colors being applied and the cartoon being filled; he could own the finished board or ceiling, but had never even in principle been capable of handling the brushes. But here -- what was that? The "A third contingent of apparaIF tus has been dispatched along the Thames to combat the Tate Gallery fire. Expert observers believe there is no hope of saving the Gallery's great collection of Blake paintings, which include most of his illustrations for' the Inferno and Purgatorio of Dante. Hope also appears to be lost for what amount to almost all the world's paintings by Turner, including his water colors of the burning of the Houses of Parliament. The intense and sudden nature of the initial outbreak has lead to the suspicion that the fire is the work of an incendiary." B aines sat up alertly, though all his joints protested painfully, feeling an even more acute stab of hope. There was a crime with real style, a crime with symbolism, a crime with meaning. Excitedly he remembered Haborym, the demon with the dripping firebrand. Now if there were to be more acts that imaginative -- The reception was getting steadily worse; it was extraordinarily tiring to be continuously straining to filter meaning out of it. Radio Luxembourg appeared to have gone off the air or to have been shut out by some atmospheric disturbance. He tried Radio Milan and got it just in time to hear it announce itself about to play all eleven of the symphonies of Gustav Mahler, one right after the other, an insane project for any station and particularly for an Italian one. Was that some demon's idea of a joke? Whatever the answer, it was going to take Radio Milan out of the newscasting business for well over twenty-four hours to come. He cast further about the dial. There seemed to be an extraordinary number of broadcasts going out in languages he did not know or could even recognize, though he could get around passably in seventeen standard tongues and in any given year was fluent in a different set of three, depending on business requirements. It was almost as though someone had jammed an antenna on the crown of Babel. Briefly, he caught a strong outburst of English; but it was only the Voice of America making piously pejorative sermonettes about the Chinese fusion explosion. Baines had known that that was coming for months now. Then the multilingual mumbling and chuntering resumed, interspersed occasionally with squeals of what might indifferently hare been Pakistani jazz or Chinese opera. Another segment of English shouted, " -- with Cyanotabsl Yes, friends, one dose cures all illsl Guaranteed chock-full of crisp, crunchy atoms -- " and was replaced by a large boys' choir singing the Hallelujah Chorus, the words for which, however, seemed to go, "Bison, bison! Rattus, rattus! Cardinalis! Cardinalis!" Then more gabble, marvelously static-free and sometimes hovering just on the edge of intelligibility. The room stank abominably of an amazing mixture of reeks: brandy, camphor, charcoal, vervain, gunpowder, flesh, sweat, perfume, incense, candle-wicks, musk, singed hair. Baines's head ached dully; it was like trying to breathe inside the mouth of a vulture. He longed to take a pull ait the brandy bottle under his rumpled alb, but he did not know how much of what was left would be needed when Ware resumed operations. Across from him, something moved: Fr. Domenico had unlocked his hands and turned away from the small window. He was now taking a few prim steps toward Baines. The slight stir of human life seemed to disturb Jack Ginserg, who thrashed himself into an even more uncomfortable-looking position, shouted hoarsely and then began to snore. Fr. Domenico shot a glance at him and, stopping just short of his side of the Grand Circle, beckoned. "Me?" Baines said. Fr. Domenico nodded patiently. Putting aside the overheated little radio with less reluctance than he would have imagined possible only an hour ago, Biaines heaved himsei arthiitioally to his knees, and then to his feet. As he started to stumble toward the monk, something furry hurtled in front of him and nearly made him fall: Ware's cat. It was darting toward the altar; and in a soaring arc incredible in an animal of its shameless obesity, it leapt up there and settled down on the rump of its sleeping master. It looked greenly at Baines and went itself to sleep, or appeared to. Fr. Domenico beckoned again and went back to the window. Baines limped after him, wishing that he had taken off his shoes; his feet felt as though they had turned into solid blocks of horn. "What's the matter?" he whispered. "Look out there, Mr. Baines." C onfused and aching, Baines peered past his uninvited and unimpressive Virgil. At first he could see nothing but the streaked steam on the inside of the glass, with a spume of fat snowflakes slurrying beyond it. Then he saw that the night was in fact not wholly dark. Somehow he could sense e undersides of turbulent clouds. Below, the window, Hke the one in Ware's office, looked down the side of the diff and out over the sea, which was largely invisible in the snowwhorls; so should the town have (been, but it was in fact faintly luminous. Overhead, from frame to frame of the window, the clouds were overstitclhed with continuous streaks of dim fibre, like phosphorescent oontrails, longlasting and taking no part in the weather. "Well?" Baines said. "You don't see anything?" "I see the meteor-tracks or whatever they are. And the light is odd. Sheet lightning, I suppose, and maybe a fire somewhere in town." "That's all?" "That's all," Baines said, irritaited. "What are you trying to do, panic me into waking Dr. Ware and oaMinig it all quits? Nothing doing. We'H wait it out." "All right," Fr. Domenico said, resuming his vigil. Baines stumped back to his comer and picked up the radio. It said:  now established that the supposed Chinese fusion test was actualIF ly a missile warhead explosion of at least lihirty megaitons, cenitered on Taiwan. Western capitals, already in an uproar because of the napalm murder of the U.S. president's widow in a jammed New York discotheque, are moving quickly to a full war footing, and we expect a series of security blackouts on the news at any moment. Undl that happens we will keep you informed of whatever important events come through. We pause for station identication. Owoo. Eeg. Oh, piggly baby, I caught you -- cheatin' on me -- owoo -- " Baines twisted the dial savagely, but the howling only became more bestial. Down the wall to his right, Hess twisted his long body on the table and suddenly sat upright, swinging his stockinged feet to the floor. "Jesus Christ," he said huskily. "Did I hear what I thought I heard?" "Dead right you did," Baines said quietly, and not without joy; but he too was worried. "Slide over here and sit down. Something's coming to a head, and it's nothing like we'd expected -- or Ware either." "Hadn't we better call a halt, then?" "No, Sit down, goddamn it. I don't think we can call a halt -- and even if we could, I don't want to give our clerical friend over there the satisfaction." "You'd rather have World War Three?" Hess said, sitting down obediently. "I don't know that that's what's going to happen. We contracted for this; let's give it the benefit of the doubt. Either Ware's in control, or he should be. Let's wait and see." "All right' Hess said. He bepm to knead his fingers togeOier. Baines tried the radio once mere, but nothing was coming throui but a mixture of the Messiah, Mahler and The Supremes. Jack Ginsberg whined in his pseudosleep. After a while, Hess said neutrally: "Baines?" "What is it?" "What kind of a thing do you think thit is?" "Well, it's either World War Three or it isn't. How can I know yet?" "I didn't ask you that... not what you think it is. I asked you, what kind of a thing do you tfhhak: it is? You ought to have some sort of notion. After all, you contracted for it." "Oh. Hmm. Father Domemoo said it might turn out to be Armageddon. Ware didn't think so, but he hasn't turned out to be very rigjat up to now. I can't guess, mysdf. I haven't been thinking in these terms very long." # # watefaing his fingers weave themselves in and out. "I'm still trying to make sense of it in the old terms, the ones that used to make sense of the universe to me. It isn't easy. But you'll remember I told you I was interested in the history of science. That involves trying to understand why there wasn't any science for so long, and why it went into eclipse almost every time it was rediscovered. I think I know why now. I thiink the humaii minJ goes ihrougb a sort of cyde of fear, lit can only take so mtich acouamiated knowledge, and theta it panics and starts iaventiiig reasons ito tihixw everything over and go back to a Dark Age... every time with a new, invented mystical leason." "You're not making very much sense," Baines said. He was still also trying to listen to the radio. "I didn't expect you to think so. But it happens. It happens about every thousand years. People start out happy with their gods, even though they're frightened of them. Then, increasiny, the world becomes secularized, and (the gods seem less and less relevant. The temples are deserted. People feel guilty about that, but not much. Then, suddenly, they've had al the secularization they can take, they throw their woodim shoes into the machines, they take to worshipping Satan or the Great Mother, they go into a Hellenistic period or take up Christianity, in hoc signo vinces -- I've got those all out of order, but it happens, Baines, it happens like clockwork, every thousand years. The last time was the chiliastic panics just before the year # A.D., when everyone C#qected the Second Coming of Christ and realized that they didn't dare face up to Him. That was the heart, the center, the whole reason of the Dark Ages. Well, we've got another millenium coming to a dose now, and people ore terrified of our secularization, our nuclear and biological weapons, our computers, our overprotective medicine, everything, and they're turning back to the worship of unreason. Just os you've done -- and I've helped you. Some people these days worsiMp flying saucers because iey don't dare face up to Ohirist. You've turned to black magic. Where's the difference?" "I'll tell you where," Baines said. "Nobody in the whole of time has ever seen a saucer, and the reasons for believing that anybody has ore utterly pitiable. Problly they can be explained just as you've explained them, and never mind about Jung and his thump-headed crowd. But, Adolph, you and I have seen a demon." "Do you think so? I don't deny it. I think it very possible. But Baines, are you sure? How do you know what you think you know? We're on the eve of World War Three, which we engineered. Couldn't all this be a ballucmatiion we conjured up to remove some of our guilt? Or is it possible that it isn't happening at all and that we're as much victims of a chiliastic panic as more formally religious people are? That makes more sense to me than all this medieval mumho-jumbo about demons. I don't mean to deny the evidence of my senses, Baines; I only mean to ask you, what is it worth?" "I'll tdl you what I know," Biaines said equably, "though I can't tell you how I know it, and I won't bother to try. First, something is happening, and that something is real. Second, you and I and Ware and everyone else who wanted to make it happen, therefore did make it 'happen. Third, we'ire turning out to be wrong about the outcome -- # IF but no matter what it is, it's our outcome; we contracted for it. Demons, saucers, fallout -- what's the difference? Those are just signs in the equation, parameters we can fill any way that makes the most intermediate sense to us. Are you happier with electrons than with demons? Okay, ood for you. But what I like, Adolph, what  like is the result; I don't give a damn about the means. I invented it, I called it into being. I'm paying for it -- and no matter how else you describe it, # made it, and ifs mine. Is that clear? Ifs mine. Every other possible fact about it, no matter what that fact might turn out to be, is a stupid footling technicality that I hire people like you and Ware not to bother me with." "It seems to me," Hess said in a leaden monotone, "that we are all insane." At that same moment, the small window burst into an intense white glare, turning Fr. Domenico into the intensest of inky silhouettes. "You may be right," Baines said. "There goes Rome." Fr. Domenico, his eyes streaming, turned away from the dimming frame and picked his way slowly to the altar. After a long moment of distaste, he took Theron Ware by the shoulder and shook him. The cat hissed and jumped sidewise. "Wake up, Theron Ware," Fr. Domenico said formally. "I charge you, awake. Your experiment may now wholly and contractually be said to have gone astray, and the Covenant therefore satisfied. Ware! Ware! Wake up, damn you!" B aines looked at his watch. It was #:# a.m. Ware awoke instantly, swung to his feet with a spring, and without a word started for the window. At the same instant, the agony that had been Rome swept over the building. The shock wave had been attenuated by distance, and the jolt was not heavy; but the window Fr. Domenico had uncurtained sprang inward in a spray of flying glass needles. More glass fell from behind the drapes below the ceiling, like an orchestra of celestes. As far as Baines could see, nobody was more than slightly cut. Not that a serious wound could have made any difference now, with the Last Death already riding on the winds. Ware was not visibly shaken. He simply nodded once and wheeled toward the Grand Circle, stooping to pick up his dented paper hat. No, he was moved -- his lips were pinched white. He beckoned to them all. Baines took a step toward Jack Ginsberg, to kick him awake if necessary. But the special executive assistant was already on his feet, trembling and wild-eyed. He seemed, however, totally unaware of where he was; Baines had to push him bodily into his minor Circle. "And stay there," Baines added, in a voice that should have been able to scar diamonds. But Jack gave no sign of having heard it. Baines went hastily to his Tanist's place, checking for the bottle of brandy. Everyone else was already in position, even the cat, which in fact had vaulted to its post promptly upon having been dumped off Ware's rear. The sorcerer lit the brazier and began to address the dead air. He was hardly more than a senjtence into this invocation before Baines realized for the first time, in his freezing heart, that this was indeed the last effort -- and that indeed they might all still be saved. Ware was making his renunciation, in his own black and twisted way -- the only way his fatally proud soul could ever be brought to make it. He said: "I invoke and conjure thee, Lucifuge Rofocale, and fortified with the Power and the Supreme Majesty, I strongly command thee Paumachie, Apoloresedes and the most potent princes Genio, LiaCHiDE, Ministers of the Tartarean seat, chief princes of the seat of Apologia in the ninth region; I exorcise and command thee, Lucifuge Rofocaie, by Him Who spake and it was done, by the Most Holy and Glorious Names Adonai, El, EloHiM, Elohe, Zebaoth, Elion, Escherce, Jah, Tetragrammaton, Sadai: do thou and thine forthwith appear and show thyself unto me, regardless of how thou art previously charged, from whatever part of the world, without tarrying! "I conjure thee by Him to Whom all creatures are obedient, by this ineffable Name, Tetragrammaton Jehovah, by which the elements are overthrown, the air is shaken, the sea turns back, the fire is generated. the Earth moves and aU the hosts of things celestial, of things teirrestrial, of things infernal, do treanible and are confounded together; come, Adonai, King of kings, commands thee!" There was no answer, ejccept an exterior grumble of thunder. "Now I invoke, conjure and command thee, Lucifuge Rofocale, to appear and show thyself before this Oirdle, by the Name of On; by the Name Y and V, which Adam heard and spake; by the Name of Joth, which Jacob learned from the angd on the night of his wrestling and was delivered from the hands of his brother; by the Name of Agla, which Lot heard and was saved with his family; by the Name Anehexemade wise; by the Name Schemes Amathia, which Joshua invoked and the Sim stayed upon his course; by the Nome Emmanuel, by which the three children were delivered from the fiery furnace; by the Name Alpha-Omega, which Daniel uttered and destroyed Bel and the dragon; by the Name Zebaoth, which Moses named, and all the rivers and the waters in the land of Egypt were turned into blood; by the Name Hagios, by the Seal of A#x)nai, by those others, which are Jetros, Athenoros, Paracletus: by the dreadful Day of Judgment; by the changing sea of glass which is before the face of the Divine Majesty; by the four beasts before the Throne; by qM these Holy and most potent words, come thou, and come thou quickly; come, come! Adonai, King of kings, commands thee!!" Now, at last, there wa u sound; a sound of laughter. It was e taughiter of Something inoapaihle of joy, laughing only because It was compelled by Its nature to terrify. As the lauter grew, that Something formed. I t was not standing in the lesser Circle or appearing from the Gateway, but instead was sitting on the altar, swinging Its cloven feet negjigently. It had a goat's head, with immense horns, a crown that flamed like a torch, level human eyes, and a Star of David on Its forehead. Its haunches too were caprine. Between, the body was human, though hairy and with dragging black pinions like a crow's growing from Its shoulder-blades. On one shaggy forearm was tattooed. Solve; on the other, Coagula, Ware fell slowly to one knee. "Adoramus te, Put Satanachia," he said, laying his wand on the ground before him. "And again . , . ave, ave." Ave, but why do you hail me? the monster said in a petulant bass voice, at once deep and marmered, like a homosexual actor's. It was "No, Baphomet, master and .guest. Never for an instant. It is everywhere said that you can never be called and would never appear." Ware bowed his head lower. "I was wrong." Ah! But there is a first time IF OF thanks; worm though you "No!" Ware cried out. "Oh, living God, no! This cannot be the Timel You break ithe Law! Where is the Antichrist -- " Men have always led them"But -- master and guest -- the Law -- " We shall also do without the Law. Have you not heard? Those Tablets have been broken. There was a hiss of indrawn breath from boith Ware and Fr. Domenico; but if Ware had intended some further argument, he was forestalled. To Baines's right. Dr. Hess said in a voice of high ultraviolet hysteria: "I don't see you. Goat." "Shut up!" Ware shouted, almost turning away from the vision. "I don't see you," Hess said doggedly. "You're nothing but a siHy sooologioal mixture. A mushroom dream. You're not real. Goat. Go away. Poof!" Ware turned in his Karcist's oirdle and lifted his magician's sword against Hess in both hands; but at the last minute, he seemed to be afraid to step out against the wobbling figure of the sdenti'st. Hess did not answer. Instead, he howled like a wolf and charged blindly out of the Grand Circle, his head down, toward the altar. The Sabbath Goat opened Its great mouth and gulped him down tike a fly. Thank you for the sacrifice. It said thickly. Anyone else? Then it is time I left. "Stand to, stupid and disobedient!" Fr. Domenico's voice irang out from Baines's right side. A doth ifiluttered out of the iDOdik's oirde onto the floor. "Behcftd thy confusion, if thou be disobedient! Behold the Pentacle of Soilomon which I have brought into thy presence!" Funny little monk, I was "Hush and be still, fallen star. Bebold in me the person of the Exorcist, who is oaMed Gctinimoes, in the midst of delusion armed by the Lord God and fearless. I am thy master, in the name of the Lord Bathal, rushing upon ABtiic Abeor, coming upon BerorI The Saibbath Goat looked down upon Fr. Domenico almost kindly. His face red, Fr. Domenico reached into his robes and brought out a crucifex, which he thrust toward the altar like a sword. "Back to HeU, devil! In the name of Christ our Lord!" Ibe ivory cross exploded like a Prince Rupp's Drop, strewing Fr. Domenico's robe with dust. He looked down at his bomblly empty hands. College also have failed -- and The great head bent to look down upon Theron Ware. And you are my dearly be"One moment, please," Fr. Domenico said. "If you would be so kind... I see that we have failed... Would you tdl us: Where did we fail?" The Goat laughed, spoke three words, and vanished. T he dawn grew, red, streaked, duM, endless. From Ware's window the sleeping town slumped down in rivers of cold lava toward the sea -- but there was no sea; as Fr. Domenico had seen hours ago, the sea had withdrawn and would not be back again except as a tsunami after the Cbrinth earthquake. Circles of desolation spread away from the ritual Circles. Inside them, the last magicians waited for the now Greatest Powers to come back for them. It would not be long now. In all their minds and hearts echoed those last three words. World without end. End without world. God is dead. Galaxy's #th Anniversary Issue -- All-Star Lineup! Complete Short Novel by Roger Zelazny by George O. Smith by H. L. Gold On safe now -- don't miss it! IF Dear Editor: It is my opinion tliat adults are discriminating against tihe younger generation of science-fiction readers. There are some adults who welcome a youth's view of S.P., 'but they are few and far between. All others either ignore you or criticize the younger generation. They claim ours is but a passing interest unlike their eternal passion for science fiction. I may be only sixteen years old, but I have been reading S.P. for quite a while. I have coUeoted sixty paierback stories and am a subscriber to IF, There is nothing I like better than reading one of the current works. I therefore believe that I too should have the right to be recognized as a S.F. afficionado. I would ber, being only a short distance from New York, but I am deathly afraid of being, thrown out because of my age by the righteous and older fans. Is there any possibility of obtaining a safe-conduct pass? -- Richard Kurzberg, # Crescent Avenue, Passaic, New Jersey. All fans are welcome at all sf conventions -- regardless of age, sex, color or creed. That's one of the nice things about sf conventions! -- Editor.   H U E  Dear Editor: The most irritating letter I have ever read in any sf magazine was Alma McCormick's April '# contribution. Why are so many people turned off science fiction? Absolutely not because the story has dropped to second place in favor of philosophy! The average person will not read sf because of the bad name it acquired in the junk period" of the #'s, when sf did not teach. I disagree emphatically with her idea that the major purpose of sf is pure entertainment. In defense of the books that have "slid off the tracks where story comes first," as Mrs, McCormick stated, I will offer the following list of titles. I defy anyone to say these books don't entertain while at the same time allowing the reader to think: City, by Clifford D. Simak, The Martian Chronicles, by Ray Bradbury, Stranger in a Strange Land, by Robert A. Heinledn, ChiMhoods End, by Arthur C. cWke, A Canticle for Leihowitz, by Walter M. Miller, Jr., Davy, by Edgar Pangbom, Brave New World, by Aidous Huxley, The Lord of the Rings, by J. R. R. Tolkien and Flowers for Algernon, by Daniel Keyes. Mr. Pohl, please don't write what Mrs. McCormick considers a good book. Make us think. Write another Plague of Pythons -- write a book that teaches I -- Frank Flynn, # Walker Lane, Holladay, Utah #.    Dear Editor: I am not a letter writer, but I feel impelled to write by what I see you are hearing about the New Wave of British science fiction. This is very much a minority movement. The British magazines nearly collapsed because no one wanted them, and were saved by a subsidy obtained when Brian Aldiss used his personal prestige. The American magazines are in eV)( shop; the British ones can hiajdly be found. I personally am asibtamed that Britain should be identified with them, and would like to remind you that the lunatic Burroughs came from your side of the AtlanticI! Please print this fast, before our national image is ruined! -- D. C. Jackson, # Cromwell Road, London S. W. #., England.    Dear Editor: I think some comment should be made regarding the letter by Alma McCormick in your April issue. Mrs. McCormick seems quite dissatisfied with the science fiction being wrritten today; I can only assume this is because ie has been reading the wrong stories. Since I'm only eighteen, I can't claim to be as widely read in the field as Mrs. McCormick. I do know one thing, however: The quality of sf today is excellent, and it's getting better all the time. I find it hard to believe that such an obviously intelligent i)erson says today's writers are trying to teach and neglecting the story. This just isn't sol A story written for a totally didactic purpose would sell about as well as a snowball in Alaska. As a case in point, Mrs, McCormick refers to Heinlein's The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, This is probably the best novel Heinlein has written in many a year. And why? Because the author is, as Mrs. McCormick puts it, busy playing sociology professor? Hardly! Because it's a darned good story, that's the reason. Mrs. McCormick is quite right when she says that the Heinlein who wrote The Puppet Masters, etc, is the same one who wrote The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress; except, that is, for the fact that Heinlein is a little more adept at story-telling than he once was. I couldn't agree more with Samuel Goldwyn's remark: "If you've gotta message, use Western Union." However, it just doesn't apply here. Maybe sf writers today are trying to teach; but certainly not to the extent Mrs. McCormick would lead us to believe. Heinlein, Blish and Clarke are better than ever; and if the lady hasn't seen a new Pohl in ages, I refer her to The Age of the Pussyfoot, in Galaxya #th anniversary issue. Regarding her comments about today's writers, I feel that Laumer, Zelazny, Niven, et-ah, are as good as anything the forties produced. Mrs. McCormick concludes by telling you to write to "Write a good book for yourself". Why doesn't she write one? -- Wayne Spiceland Jr., # Stillwood Dr. Nashville, Tenn.  That's it for another month. This month's "First" is Donald Walsh's Mu Panther, Cramped for space -- see you next month! -- The Editor, IP won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! too for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted All Postpaid. Add state sales tax, it any. No. CM-# by Cullen Rapp No. CX-# by Lynd Ward The designs shown above are the only ones we offer! Ordor from Gciloxy #I Hudson street. New York #, N. Y Yo when you oin the Science Fiction  Book Club and agree to accept only four books during the coming year combines three great science fiction classics for the first the most thought-provoking, compelling epics ?ver to come from the pen of the distinguished research biochemist and leading science fiction writer, Isaac Asimov. How to Get This Unusual Value for only # Because you enjoy Science thrillers, the Science Fiction Book Club would like to ac(iuaint you with the most imaginative, informative, entertaining new science fiction books as they are written. That is why we have arranged to send you Subscription to the Club. Here's how the Club works: each month it offers a really superb new science fact or fiction book at a fraction of its regular price. Even though these books sell for #, #, # and up in their original editions. Club members get them full-length, hard-cover editions. Extra-value books cost more. And the Club tells you in advance what each monthly selection will be. During your Trial Subscription you agree to take as few as four books in the next twelve months. After that you may take as few or as many l)ooks as you want, and you may cancel at any time. It's a deal that is hard to beat. Mail Coupon With Only lOt #Q with a short trial membership. After ten days, if you will be. canceled. Otherwise you will be enrolled in the Club as a Trial Member, and you need take only four books in the next twelve months. Mail the coupon today to: Science Fiction Book Club, Garden City, New' York #. collapse. Its myriad worlds had already begun to war among themselves, plunging the universe into barbaric chaos. Civilization seemed doomed. But master scientists laboring to ensure that civilization would be preserved during the dark ages to come, established twin "Foundations" at opposite ends of the Galaxy, to form the nucleus of a new civilization, and in time to unite across the Galaxy to form a new... a stronger... a more enduring Second Empire. In Foundation and Foundation and Empire, we follow the course of the First Foundation as it rekindles the light of civilization in an everincreasing portion of the Galaxy -- and as it is confronted by its greatest crisis: a dangerous soul-eonsuming detire is conquest of the Galaxy! Within a decade, he tyrannized the entire Galaxy except for the Second Foundation. And this became his mania -- to find and conquer the Second Foundation. Everything in the Galaxy must be his!... Please enroil me as a Triil Member in llie Sensnee ing and handling. Then, every month send me the Club's free bulletin, "Things to Come," which describes coming selections. For each book I accept, I will pay #, plus shipping and handling, unless I take an extra-value selection at a higher price. I need take only four books within a year and may resign at any time thereafter. pay nothing, owe nothing, and my membership will be canceled. Print Address City (offer good In U.S.A. only.)  Membership applications subject to acceptance by club. IR-S#IB  Novem! combined with Mail Drop The Shadow of Space And the continuation of Ocean on Top Seated iBennett Cerf, Faith Baldwin, Bergen Evans, Bruce Catton, Mignon G.Eberhart, John Caples, J. D. Ratcliff. Standing: Mark Wiseman, Max Shulman, Rudolf Flesch, Red Smith, Rod Serling. "We're looking for people who want to write" By Gordon Carroll Director, Famous Writers School. Former editor. Reader's Digest, Time, Inc., Coronet If you want to write, my colleagues and I would like to test your writing aptitude. We'll help you find out if you can be trained to become a successful writer. Several years ago, we started the Famous Writers School. Our aim was to help qualified people acquire the skills they need to break into print. We poured everything we knew about writing into a new kind of professional training course, which you take at home and in your free time. After a solid grounding in fundamentals, you get advanced training in the specialty of your choice -- Fiction, Non-Fiction, Advertising or Business Writing. Each of your writing assignments is examined by instructors who are themselves professional writers or editors. Your instructor spends up to two hours analyzing your work. He blue-pencils corrections right on it -- much as an editor does with established writers. Then he returns it to you with a long personal letter of advice and specific recommendations. This training works well. Our students have sold their writing to more than # publications including Reader's Digest, True, Redbook. Stephen Novak of Wayne, N. J., says, "I just received a check from Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine. That's #I stories rold in six months." Doris Stebbins of S. Coventry, Conn., who has sold six stories to Woman's Day for # writes, "Taking your Course has made it all possible." Writing Aptitude Test offered To find out if you can benefit from this training, send for the School's Aptitude Test. If you test well, or offer other evidence of writing ability you may enroll. But there is no obligation to do so. r I Famous Writers School j Dept. #, Westport Connecticut # I I want to know if I have writing aptitude, j Please mail me, free, your Writing Aptitude I Test and #-page illustrated brochure. ! Mr. I Mrs Age I Miss Circle one and please print I Street J City I State Zip j Accredited by the Accrediting Commission I of the National Home Study Council. VoL #, No. #I Frederik Pohl, Editor Robert M. Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by Fred Saberhagen by C. C. MacApp by Philip Jose Farmer by Gary Wright by Piers Anthony by Hal Clement by James Stevens by Frederik Pohl IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #, Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All right, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for . unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # IF  Editorial B y the time we are all a decade older, if the aircraft manufacturers have anything to say about it, we will be able to travel from point to point in a supersonic jet. We We all seen drawings and mocksnoot, swept wing, titanium hull and all, it is planned to cruise at # miles an hour and get us from London to New York in about a hundred and fifty minutes. Lovely idea. ,... H appens that the other day we made that trip. (We were coming back from the Trieste ScienceFiction Film Festival, and if youVe any interest in what went on there you can find out all about it in the first issue of our new magazine. International Science Fiction,) It might be instructive to look at the log of this particular odyssey: #:# AM, London time. Depart hotel in London to arrive at Heathrow Airport one hour before scheduled take off at #:# PM. (Required by all airlines on international flights -- heaven knows why.) Noon, London time. Arrive Heathrow, discover flight will be two and a half hours late because of "late arrival of aircraft." (You know how insistent the airlines are about requiring a telephone contact number from their passengers? Anybody ever find out why they never use them?) #:# PM, London time. Takeoff from Heathrow. Nonstop flight expected to take # hours # minutes; allowing for #-hour time difference. should teuch down at Kennedy Airport in New York at #:# local New York time. #:# PM, New York time. Arrive over Kennedy Airport, late because of (a) headwinds, (b) pilot dawdling because his radio advisories have told him Kennedy is stacked up due to weather and heavy traffic. We go into the stack. #:# PM, New York time. Delay until landing estimated at one and one-half hours. As we have only that much fuel in the tanks and the pilot doesn't like the idea of landing with dry tanks, we divert to Boston. #:#-#:# PM, New York time. We sit on the field in Boston, while fuel arrives and is pumped in. Because of quarantine, customs and immigration restrictions, nobody leaves the aircraft. (The air-conditioning does not work while the plane is on the ground at this airport. It is late July.) #:# PM, New York time. Back in the Kennedy stack. #:# PM, New York time. Land. Wait for assignment of unloading area. #:# PM. Debark. Look for missing baggage. File lost-baggage report. Pass through customs (# inspectors "on duty", four physically present and working.) Attempt to secure taxi. #:# AM, New York time. Arrive at destination, # miles from Kennedy Airport. Adding up the totals, we have: Downtown London to takeoff line at Heathrow, approximately # miles, elapsed time # hours. be generally told -- things you ought to know. Great truths are dangerous to some -- but factors for personal power and accoinplishment in the hands of those who understand them. Behind the tales of the miracles and mysteries of the ancients, lie centuries of their secret probing into nature's laws -- their amazing discoveries of the hidden processes of mans mind, and the mastery of lifers problems. Once shrouded in mystery to avoid their destruction by mass fear and ignorance, these facts remain a useful heritage for the thousands of men and women who privately use them in their homes today. The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) an age-old brotherhood of learning, have preserved this secret wisdom in their archives for centuries. They now invite you to share the practical helpfulness of their teachings. Write today for a free copy of the book, "The Mastery of Life." Within its pages may lie a new life of opportunity for you. Address: Scribe T.B.R. I Scribe T.B.R.  I San Jose, California # I j Please send me the free book. The Mastery  I of Life, which explains how I may learn to  I use my faculties and powers of mind.  I Name  I Address j j City Zip Code I Airborne at Heathrow to airborne over Kennedy, approximately # miles, elapsed time # hours. Airborne over Kennedy to destination in New Jersey, approximately # miles, elapsed time # hours # minutes. (This route, by the way, is served by an air taxi, actual flying time being approximately # minutes. However, the air taxi stops running at #:# PM.) -- You understand that we don't mean to say that there is anything very special or unprecedented about this sort of jet-age odyssey. That's the trouble. It happens every day. for the VC-# we were actually using on this trip. The supersonic transport can cruise at # miles an hour, which means it can do the trip in about # hours thirty minutes, allowing for time to get up to its operating altitude of # feet as it leaves England and get back down as it approaches the northeastern United States. But the VC-# can cruise at nearly # miles an hour and doesn't need as much take-off and landing time. It could have done the trip in # hours, actually took nine from point to point; it's only fair to asing flat-out either. So increase the I)oint-to-point time from # minutes What about the rest of the trip? Ground-transport time? Certainly it will not be less simply because you're boarding a titanium aircraft instead of an aluminum one. Passing through customs? Certainly no less time; it is a fact of life that the heavier the traffic, the longer it takes to get through any sort of estimate it will double traffic. Stacking time? Ah, there's where it at a fantastic rate. It simply cannot stay stacked very long -- which means diversion for refueling, since there is no hope on God's green earth that airport facilities will be better able to cope with the demands of their traffic ten years from now than they are today. If anything, worse. Every major city needs additional air facilities right now. Not one has adequate expansion even planned. an abomination; it wastes all that precious fuel and flight-time. So there you have it. On the most would cut this sort of twenty-hour trans-Atlantic crossing to maybe fifteen hours. In practice, you would most certainly lose back that five-hour saving on diversions and ground time. On any other route (over land, say, or across the Pacipelled to waste its speed because of catastrophic sonic boom (requiring it to operate at the same speed as the VC-# over inhabited land areas) or would be inefficient for other reasons. The big difference, in short, beget out of any airport in the world you would be paying approximately three times as much. W ell, we civilized peoples of the world are spending an awful lot of money awfully foolishily on an incredible variety of things. But on that idiot list, wouldn't you say very high indeed? IF  Complete Short Novel He was sent back in time -- fo protect a famous heretic from destruction by a berserker! Illustrated by he barefoot man in the gray friar's habit topped a rise and paused to survey the country ahead. In that direction the paved road he was traveling continued to run almost straight under a leaden sky, humping over one scrubbily wooded hill after another. The stones of this road had been laid down in the days of expansion of the great Empire, and there was not much else in the world that had survived the centuries between then and now. The friar was of medium height and rather thin. His appearance seemed to have little to do with age; he was somewthere between twenty and forty. His scantily bearded face expressed his tiredness, and his gray robe was spotted with grayer mud. The fields up to the shoulders of the road were all ankle-deep in mud, and most of them showed no sign of having been plowed or planted this spring or last. The only sign of recent human presence visible from where the friar stood now was a heap of low ruined walls at roadside just ahead. Only the ruin was recent; the walls themselves had been old and might have been a caravanserai or legion post in the days of the Empire's strength. But last month or last tenday, new war had passed this way, dissolving one more building into raw tumbled stones. Before grass could start to grow on the stones, it seemed likely that they might sink into the mud without a trace. When he reached the remnant of a wall, the friar sat down on it, resting from his long journey and looking with minor sadness at the minor destruction about him. He leaned Over and picked up one fallen stene; his wiry hands showed strength. With something like a practiced mason's look in his eye, he fitted the stone into a notch in the stump of wall and studied the effect. A distant hail made him raise his head and look back along the way he had come. Another lone figure, dressed in' a habit much like his own, was hastening toward him, waving both arms for attention. The first friar forgot his little game with the stone, returned the wave and waited. T he approaching figure soon resolved itself into a man of middle height, clean shaven and almost stout. "Glory to the Holy One, reverend brother!" puffed this newcomer, arriving at last within easy talking distance. The bearded friar had gotten to his feet, and now his thin face lighted gently. "Glory to His name." The jportly one asked anxiously: "Are you, as I think. Brother Jovann of Ernard?" "That is my name." "Now may the Holy One be praised!" The heavier man made a wedge-sign with his hands and rolled eyes heavenward. "My name is Saile, brother. Now may the Holy One be praised, say I -- " "So be it." " -- for He has led me in mysterious ways to reach your side! Brother Jovann, others will be flocking to your side, for the fame of your heroic virtue has spread afar in many lands. Even in the isolated villages of these remote hills, the peasants are aware now of your passage." "I fear my many faults are known hereabouts, for I was born not far away." "Ah, brother, you are overly modest. From numerous people in this land, as well as elsewhere, I have heard again and again of your ejxploits. How, two months ago, you dared to leave the encampment of the army of the Faithful, to cross no-man's-land boldly into the very ranks of the Infidel, there to enter the tent of the Arch-Infidel himself and preach to him the truth of our Holy Mother Temple!" "And to fail to convert him." Jovann nodded sadly. "You do well to remind me of my failure, for I am prone to the sin of pride." "Ah." Saile lost headway. But it was only for a moment. "My own most humble wish. Brother Jovann, is that I be allowed to be among the very first to join your order. Ah, you are even now on your way to Empire City? To petition our Vicar, IF the most holy Nabur ithe Eighth, for permission to found a new order of your own?" "Truly, God has called me to such a task. Brother Saile." The thin friar's eyes looked into the distance. "Once I labored at rebuilding temples with stones and bricks, but now I am called to rebuild with men." His attention came back, smiling. "As for your becoming a member of the new order when it is formed, I can say nothing yet. But if you should choose to walk with me to Empire City, I will be happy for your company." "I am most highly honored. Brother Jovann!" S aile prolonged his thanks to some length as they walked on together. He had also commented extensively on the chances of yet more rain falling and was discoursing on the question of where they might hope to obtain their next meal, when there came a distraction. A speedy coach that looked as if it might belong to some middle-ranking noble or prelate was overtaking them on the road. The friars's ears gave them plenty of warning to step aside; four agile loadbeasts were making the wheels datter over the leveled stones at a good speed. As the coach sped past. Brother Jovann found his eyes drawn to the face of one occupant who rode facing forward, head and one arm extended slightly out a window. This was an old man, stocky of build -- so far as could be judged -- graybearded, but with the short-cut hair on his head still ginger colored. His thick mouth was twisted slightly as if ready to spit or to dispute. "I had hoped they might give us a lift," Brother Saile muttered unhappily, watching the coach dwindle along the road ahead. "All the seats were not occupied, were they?" Brother Jovann shook his head; he had not noticed how many were in the coach. His attention had been drawn and held by the old man's eyes. Fixed ahead, in the direction o . the Holy City a hundred miles away, those eyes were clear and gray and powerful. And very much afraid. II W hen Derron Odegard walked out on the victory celebration in Time Operation, he found his feet taking him to Lisa, to face her with the news of Matt's death and get it over with. She had only just moved out of the student nurses's quarters at the hospital, to try some job and share a cubicle with another girl in a lowrank, uplevel corridor. Lisa's roommate, in the midst of doing something to her hair, opened the door to Derron and then had to go back inside to pretend not to be listening. Lisa evidently saw Derron's' news in his face or guessed it. Her own face becoming calm as a mask, she stood just inside the half-open door, not asking him in from the corridor. He nodded. "It's Matt -- the battle's won, the berserkers are stopped. But he's dead, he sacrifice himself to do it." She lifted her head proudly, showing no surprise. "Of course; what else could he do? That's the job you gave him." "Understand, Lisa, when I went to him with that salestalk I thought he was going to have a chance." Her voice and her face began to break together. "I -- knew you were going to kiU him." "My God, Lisa! I didn't mean to do that." Breaking up and melting, she leaned against the doorjamb. "And now there's n-nothing to be done." "Hie doctors tried -- but no, nothing. We can't go after his lifelin in the past gain -- it'd wrelok the world to try to pull it out of inm now." not worth it!" trying to console her with some stupidities when the door closed in his face. A few days later he was sitting alone in his tiny private office on the Operations level, slumping in his chair, thinking that if Lisa were the woman he needed he would liave stayed and kicked her door down; it was only a door, and behind it she was still alive. No, the woman he needed, whose image still ruled his secret thoughts, had been for a year and more behind the door of death; and no man had yet found a way of smashing through that. So in the matter of Lisa -- as in everything else -- Derron could no longer care very much. After he had sat in his sdent office for a while, he noticed an IF official-looking envelope, sealed and addressed to him, on the desk. After another while he took the envelope and opened it. Inside was the formal notice of his new promotion, to the rank of colonel. " -- in consideration of your recent outstanding service in Time Operations, and in the expectation that you will continue -- " A set of appropriate collar insignia were enclosed. He sat there a while longer, looking across the room at what rested like a trophy atop his little bookcase -- an ancient battle helmet, ornamented with wings. He was still doing this when the clangor of the alert signal vibrated throughout Operations, pulling him reflexively to his feet. In another moment he was on the way to the briefing room. L atecomers were still hurrying in when a general officer, Time Ops' chief of staff, mounted the dais to get things started. "The third berserker assault has begun, gentlemen. Win or lose, this will be the last. It'll give us the final bearing we need to locate their staging area, twenty-plus thousand years down." There was an optimistic murmur heard. "Don't cheer yet. This third attack gives every indication of being a hard one to beat." The general went through the unveiling of hastely assembled maps and models. "Like the previous attack, this one is aimed at a single man. And again there's no doubt about the target's identity -- this time the name is Vincent Vincento." n There was a murmur at that name. There would have been a reaction from almost any audience that could have been assembled on Sirgol. Even the half-educated of the planet had heard of Vincento, though the man was some three hundred and fifty years dead and he had never ruled a nation or raised an army. Derron's attention became concentrated. In his pre-war historical studies he had specialized in Vincento's time and place. And that locale was also oddly connected with his private grief. The briefing officer spoke on. "Vincento's lifeline is among the very few we have been able to protect by sentry action along their entire effective lengths. Of course, this doesn't mean a berserker can't get near him; but if one tries to kill Vincento or even attacks someone else within a couple of miles of him, we'll be onto its keyhole in a couple of seconds, present-time, and cancel it out. The same if it should try to kidnap or capture Vincentoor take any direct physical action at all against him. The protection extends along Vincento's lifeline from before his birth until the completion of his last imxrtant work at the age of seventy-eight. We can assume the enemy knows about it and is planning something more subtle than direct physical assault." The general went into the technical evidence for this, then moved on to another point. "Chronologically, the enemy penetration is not more than a tenday before the start of Vincento's famous trial before the Defenders of the Faith. There may well be a connection; suppose for example that a berserker could alter the outcome of the trial to get Vincento sentenced to death. It would be practically impossible for us to find a keyhole by tracing anything so indirect. "And an actual death sentence would not seem to be necessary for the enemy's purpose. Vincento is seventy years old at the time of his trial. If it should result in his being put to torture or thrown into a dungeon, his life would be effectively ended." A nother general, seated in the front row, raised a hand. "Doesn't some such treatment happen to him historically?" "No. Historically, Vincento never spends a day of his life in prison. After his recantation at the trial, he spends the remainder of his life in physically comfortable house arrest, where he has time to lay the foundation of the science of dynamics -- and on that, of course, our science and our survival heavily depend." The questioning general shifted once more in his front rank chair. "How in the world is an alien machine going to influence the outcome of a trial?" The briefing officer stared gloomily at his charts. "Frankly we've still a shortage of good ideas on that. We doubt that it'll try to play a supernatural role, since the last such attempt failed. "Here's something to keep in mind. Only one enemy device is engaged in this attack, and from all inIP dications it's physically small, only about the size of a man -- which suggests the possibility ithat this one may be an android. Yes, I know, the berserkers have never, anywhere, been able to fabricate an android that would pass in human society as a normal person. Still, we hardly dare rule out the possibility that this time they've succeeded." The discussion turned to countermeasures. A whole arsenal of devices were being kept in readiness for dropping into the past, but no one could say yet what might be needed. "The one really bright spot, of course, is that this attack's within the time band where we can drop live agents, so we count on men on the spot as our main defense. People who'll keep their eyes on Vincento from a little distance; people able to spot any significant deviation from history. They'll need to know that particular period very well, besides having experience in Time Operations..." Listening, Derron looked down at the new insignia he was still iarrying in his hand. And then he #egan at last to pin them on. B rother Jovann and Brother Saile topped yet another hill, a few miles along from the spot where they had met, and found they were soon to catch up with the coach that had passed them so speedily. Its loadbeasts unharnessed and grazing, it stood empty beside the broken gate of a high-walled enclosure at the foot of the next hill ahead. On top of that hill there towered a great cathedral-temple, its stones too new for moss or weathering. Aloof against the lowering sky, it seemed to float above all human effort and concern. The ancient road, after passing the broken-gated monastery at the foot of the hill, swerved to meet a bridge -- or the stub of a bridge, rather, for all of the spans were gone, with most of the piers that had supported them. The river that had burst its bridge was raging, ravaging the lowlands on either side, obviously swollen to several times its normal flow. On the other side of the river, beyond another stub of bridge, the town of Oibbog sat on secure high ground. A person or two could be seen moving in those distant streets. Coaches and loadbeasts were waiting there, too, interrupted in their journeys that were outbound from the Holy City. Leaden clouds still mounted ominously up the sky. From them the river fled, lashed and goaded by distant flails of lightning, a great swollen, terrified snake that had burst its bonds and carried them away. "Brother River will not let us cross tonight." When he heard this personification, Saile's head turned cautiously sideways, as if he wondered whether he might be expected to laugh. But before he decided, the rain broke again, like a waterfall. Tucking up robes, both friars ran to join the occupants of the coach in whatever shelter the abandoned-looking monastery might afford. Ill A hundred miles away, in the capital of the vanishing Empire and the Holy City of the embattled Temple, the same day was warm and sultry. Only the cold rage of Nabur the Eighth, eighty-first in the sLiccesssion of Vicars of the Holy One, stirred like a storm-wind the air of (is private apartments. The rage had been some time accumulating thought Defender Belam, who now stood waiting for it to be over. Accumulated and saved until now, when it could be discharged harmlessly, vented into the discreet ears of a trusted auditor. The Vicar paused, distracted in his peripatetic tirade against his military opponents by a look down into a courtyard where workmen were unloading massive blocks of marble from a train of carts and a sculptor waited to choose one block for Nabur's ortrait-statue. What matter if his eighty predecessors had decide such matters for them? The Vicar turned suddenly, the skirts of his simple white robe swirling, and caught Belam wearing a disapproving face. In his angry tenor the Vicar snapped: "When the statue is finished we will place it in the city's Great Square, that the majesty of our person may be increased in the eyes of the people!" "Yes, my Vicar." Belam, for decades a defender and prince of the Temple, had seen them come and go. He was not easily perturbed by Vicarial temper. "It is needful that we be shown increased respect. The infidels and heretics are tearing apart the world which has been given by God into our care!" The last sentence came bursting out, a cry from the inner heart. "I have faith, my Vicar, that our prayers and our armies will yet prevail." "Prevail? Of course!" A sarcastic grimace. "Someday! Before the end of time! But now our Holy Temple lies bleeding and suffering, and we... we must bear many burdens. Many, Belam. You cannot began to realize, until you mount our throne." Belam bowed in silent reverence. The Vicar paced again, skirts flapping. This time he had a goal. From his high-piled worktable his shaking fist snatched up a pamphlet already worn from handling -- and perhaps from angry crumpling as well. A contributing and perhaps sufficient cause of today's anger, computed Belam's cool theologian's brain, knowing what the pamphlet was. A small thorn, compared with others. But this one had stabbed Nabur in the tenderest part of his vanity. N abur turned round and shook the paper-covered pamphlet at him. "Because you have been away, Belam, we have not yet had the chance to discuss this with you. This back-stabbing abomination of Messire Vincento's! This so-called Dia logue on the Movement of the Tides! In this he continues to promulgate his heresy-tainted dreams of reducing the solid world beneath IF our feet to a mere speck which flies around the sun. Suit tihait is not enough. No, not for him! No!" Belam frowned now in puzzlement. "What else, my Vicar?" Nabur advanced on him in a glow of anger. "The arguments of the pamphlet are cast in the form of a dialogue among three persons. And Vincento intends one of these fictional debaters -- the one who defends traditional ideas, who therefore is described as 'simple minded' and "below the level of human intelMgence' -- he intends this person to represent ourself!" "My Vicar!" "He even places some of my own words in the mouth of this simpleton, so-caMed!" Belam shook his head douibtfully. "Vincento has never been modenaite in his disputes, which have been many. But I am not convinced that he has ever intended any irreverence to your person." mie no doubt of it!" Vicar Nabur almost screamed. Then the most honored man in the world -- possibly also the most hated, quite possibly also the most strained by what he saw as his appointed tasks -- groaned incontinently and threw himself like a spoiled child into a chair. Arrogance remained, as always, but the spoiled-child aspect did not last long. Irascible humors having been discharged, calm and intelligence returned. "Belam." "My Vicar?" "Have you had a chance to read this pamphlet? It has been widely calculated." Belam gravely inclined his head. "Then give us your considered opinion." "I am a theologian, my Vicar, and not an astronomer. But it seems to me that Vincento's arguments in the pamphlet concerning the tides really prove nothing regarding the movement of the celestial bodies and are not even very accurate as regards the tides themselves -- " "He thinks we are fools, who will accept whatever argument he offers. And who will not realize it when he mocks us!" The Vicar stood up, then tiredly sat down again. Belam ignored for the moment the theory that Vincento had intended personal mockery. "As the Vicar may possibly recall, I bad occasion some years ago to write to Vincento regarding these speculations on the idea of a sun-centered universe. Then as now such theorizing caused me concern in my capacity as a Defender." "We recall very well. Messire Vincento has already been summoned to stand trial for his violation in this pamphlet of your injunction. What exactly did you write him, again?" B elam spoke slowly and thoughtfully. "First, that mathematicians are quite free to calculate and publish whatever they wish regarding the celestial appearances -- provided they remain strictly in the realm of hyopthesis. "Secondly, it is quite a different matter to say that in fact the sun is in the center of the universe -- that in fact our globe spins from west to east each day while revolving round the sun each year. Such statements must be considered very dangerous; though not precisely heretical, they are liable to injure faith by contradicting the Holy Writings." "Your memory, Belam, is even more than usually excellent. Just when did you write this letter of injunction?" "Fifteen years ago, my Vicar." Belam smiled briefly and dryly. "Though I must admit that I reread our archive copy this morning, after perusing the -- um -- pamphlet in question. He became utterly serious again. "Thirdly and lastly, I wrote Vincento that if some real proof existed of the sun-centered universe he champions, we should then be forced to revise our interpretation of those passages in the Holy Writings which would appear to be contradicted. We have in the past revised our thinking, for example in regard to the roundness of the world. "But, in the absence of any real proof, traditional authority and opinion is not to be set aside." NabuV was listening with great attentiveness. "It seems to us, Belam, that you wrote well, as usual." "Thank you, my Vicar." S atisfaction appeared mixed with anger in the Vicarial mien. "Certainly in this pamphlet Vincento has violated your injunction! The debater into whose mouth he puts his own opinions'rgues that in very truth our globe spins like a toy top beneath our feet -- until the very last page. Then our argument, that God may produce what effect he likes in the world, without being bound by scientific causes -- our argument is quoted by the simpleton, who has been wrong about everything else -- quoted as coming from 'a person of high learning and wisdom, supremely above contradiction'. And at this the other debaters piously declare themselves silenced. One cannot fail to see them, and their author, laughing up their sleeves!" Vicar Nabur paused to regain breath and calm. Then he went on. "Now, Belam. Other than this weary argument on tides, which I agree is inconclusive, can there exist anywhere any evidence for Vincento's spinning world? Anything he might impertinently produce at his trial, to... disrupt its course?" Belam frowned thoughtfully at the floor. "My Vicar, I have through the years made an effort to keep abreast of astronomers's thinking. I fear many of them, religious and laymen both, have become Messire Vincento's enemies, largely because of his arrogance in claiming for his own all that these new devices, telescopes, find in the heavens. An arrogant and argumentative man is hard to bear and triply so when he is so often in the right." Belam glanced up for a moment, but Nabur had not taken the description as applying to anyone but Vincento. The Defender of the Faith went on: "But still I believe that most astronomers now perform their calculations using the mathematical asIF sumption that the planets, or some ef them, revolve about the sun. Of course such an idea is not original with Vincente, nor is the idea that ur globe is only a planet. It seems these ideas make the mathematics f celestial movement somewhat more elegant and satisfying; fewer epicycles need be included in the rbits to make them fit the circular form -- " "You say Vincento makes the mathematics more elegant. But can he have proofs mathematical or otherwise? Plain evidence of any kind?" "I would say rather the contrary." "Ha!" Belam gestured with his scholar's hands, frail fingers unsure of technicalities, but till grasping firmly what they had to grasp. "It seems that if our globe did make a yearly journey round the sun, the relative positions of the stars should appear to us to change from month to month as we approached certain constellations or drew away from them. And no such displacement of stars can be observed." "Ha!" "Of course it is possible to argue that the stars are simply too distant for our measurements to show such displacement. My Vicar, I fear that no astronomer can prove Vincento wrong, though some would dearly love to do so. The celestial appearances would seem to be essentially the same, whether we go round the sun or it goes round us. "Now, as I wrote Vincento, where there is lack of centainty we have no excuse for turning our backs on tradition and on the plain meaning of the Holy Writings. We of the Temple have been entrusted by God with the duty to defend the 'truth. And, my Vicar, what I wrote Vincento fifteen years ago is still true today -- I have never been shown any proof of the motion of the world we stand on. And so I cannot believe that any such proof or any such motion exists." T he Vicar raised his hands, then clamped them down upon the arms of his ornate work-chair, though his face had gentled in regret. "Then it is our decision that you and the other Defenders must proceed with the trial." As Nabur spoke on, his anger gradually returned. "No doubt he can be convicted, of violating your injunction against teaching a doctrine liable to injure faith. But understand, we have no wish to visit any great punishment upon our erring son; in charity we grant that he intended no direct insult to our person. He is only headstrong and stubborn. And intemperate in debate! He must learn that he cannot set himself up as a superior authority on all matters, spiritual and tempKral... did he not once even attempt to lecture you on theology?" Belam inclined his head and sharply warned himself to guard against taking any personal satisfaction in Vincento's coming humiliation. "Ah, I could curse the man! In the past, we have been the first to heap praise on his achievements. We have granted him hours of private audience; we have shown him friendliness in a degree we do not always grant to princes. Before our ascending to this dhiaJr, we even wrote a pamphlet in ihis praise! And now, how are we repaid?" "I understand, my Vicar." IV see 'that you have requested X assignment to one particular time. Colonel Odegard," said the examining psychologist. 'The two days Vincento spends near the town of Oihbog on the way to his trial, waiting to cross a flooded river. Had you any particular reason for wanting those two days?" "Just that I know the locale very well. I once spent a long holiday there, and it was one of those places that didn't change much in three or four hundred years." Of course like everything else on the surface, the town land cathedral of Oibbog were in the past tense now. And of course Derron did have his own inner particular reason; the long holiday there had been with her. The psychologist threw one of his fast ibails. "Have you any reason for wanting to be a field agent at all?" One reason seemed to be Matt and Ay, their images blending into one kingly figure as they receded from the moving moment of the present, blending and seeming to grow larger with distance like a mountain when a man walked away from it. Derron didn't know if he could put that into words, and he saw no need to try. "I know the period very well, as I said. I believe I can do a good job. Like everyone else, I want to win the war. I want prestige, I suppose. Accomplishment." "I see." The psychologist ruffled routinely 'through papers on his desk. "Just one more thing I want to bring up before approving you as agent material, Colonel. What are your personal religious views?" "Oh. Well frankly. I think that gods and temples are fine things for people who need crutches. I haven't yet found any necessary." "I see. I raise ithe point because of the dangers inherent in sending back to Vincento's time anyone likely to find himself personally involved in the issues of that time. Taking sides. You as an historian know better than I how thick the air is back there with dogma and doctrine. Religious controversy and warfare." "I understand." Derron shook his head calmly. "No, I'm no fanatic; I'll play any part that's necessary. I'll be a rabid monk and spit on Vincento if required." "That's all right, then. But I rather think you'll do better as a traveling scholar." O perations gave him a name -- Valzay -- and started to build for him a character who had never historically existed and rushed him into preparation with about a dozen other agents, mostly male. Each agent was to stay watchfully near Vincento during a day or so of the critical period of his life. The training and preparation was rushed and rugged, beginning with I? the siurgioal implanitatioa of communications tramsducers in jawbone and skull, so an agent could be in contact with Operations without being seem to mumble aloud. Amid fatigue and concentration Derron noticed almost without surprise that Lisa was now employed in Operations, one of the calmvoiced girls who relayed orders and information to sentries, and would do the same for slave-unit operators or live agents in the field. He had little free time and made no effort to use any of it to speak to her. Then one day as he sat resting between training sessions, Lisa came passing by and stopped. "Derron, I want to wish you success." "Thanks. Pull up a chair, if you like." She did. "Derron, I shouldn't have that wasn't your intention and it wasn't your fault. If Matt's death had caused her anything more than brief sorrov at a friend's loss, she did not show it now. Derron said abruptly: "You and I might have had -- something, Lisa. Perhaps not the whole thing there can be between a man and a woman, but still something good. At least I thought we might." "I had some feeling like that about -- Matt. But that wouldn't have been enough for me." He went on hurriedly: "As far as anyithing permanent and tremendous, well I've tried that already once in my life. And I'm still up to my neck in it, as you may have noticed. I'm sorry. I've got to get moving." And he got up out of his chair and did so. T he experts dressed him in suitable clothing, slightly worn. In his haversack they pHaced a reasonable supply of proper food, and in his wallet a moderate sum of piroper money, coins of silver and gold and a forged letter of credit on an Empire City bank. They hoped he would not need much money nor get as far as the Holy City. But just in case. Hung around Derron's neck was an abominably carved wooden wedge-symbol, big enough to conceal the bulk of his communicator and too ugly for anyone to want to steal. If anyone was moved to wonder, it was a present from his wife. In an arsenal off Stage Three, they issued him a sturdy traveler's staff, which was a more effective weapon by far than it appeared to be, and then at last they were ready to drop him. All the agents were going to be launched within half a minute, to emerge on different days and in diffent places. Their training and preparation had been too humed and too individualized for them to get to know one another very well; but for a few minutes there was joking camaraderie in Stage Three as the masquerade-costumed group bade one another good luck and good berserker-hunting. The launching file formed. Derron stood looking over the head of the agent ahead of him, a short man named Amling, who wore the garb of a traveling friar and who was to watch over Vi nee n to on the two days preceding Derron's shift. n the count, the line moved briskly forward, disappearing one figure ' after another. Amling vanished. Then in a long stride Derron's booted foot swung out over the mercurial circle and came down. H e was standing in darkness, in the open air. Except for a drizzle of rain, there was silence all about him, a lonely shence in which t his materialization must have been unseen. Good. As his eyes grew more accustomed to the gloom, he made out that the hard surface under his boots did seem to be that of the old Empire road which passed ithrough Oibbog. It seemed that the launching people had scored a bull's-eye, spatially. Whether he had arrived at the proper time remained to be seen, though the rain was as it should be. Subvocalizing, he tried to reach Operations for a routine communications check; but some kind of paradox-loop seemed to be blocking contact. One ran into such things, and one would hope they would not last. When he felt sure no one was near, he opened his staff at one end and consulted the compass thus revealed to make sure he had the right direction ahead of him. Then he began to walk. Lightning flashed distantly at intervals, but the rain was slowly diminishing. He drew deep breaths of the washed air. The transducer behind his ear twinged suddenly. "Odegard, can you read me yet? It's plus two days since you dropped. Time scale has been slipping." "Affirmative. I'm about plus five minutes since dropping. Still on the road at night in the rain," Derron was tapping along with his staff to keep from floundering off the pavement into the mud. "You're blurring on the screens. But we think we dropped you about two miles from the cathedral, further than we intended. Have you ascertained your exact location yet?" "Negative. How's the game going?" "All the agents ahead of you are back with us, no problems. Except Amling. We haven't been able to reach him, maybe just because of the time-slippage. Listen, Odegard, keep your eyes open. If you're more than about two miles from Vincento, a violent attack on you will be possible -- " The waning lightning flared up, obligingly showing Derron his road running straight for some distance ahead, with the dim brooding cathedral at last visible to him on its faroff hill. Much nearer, the lightning also showed him a shiny object lying in the center of the road, lying atop what seemed to be a line scratched or dug perpendicularly across the way. "Stand by. Operations." Derron made his way cautiously up to the wet, soft thing, prodded it with a toe and waited for the lightning, which came again to show him Amling's naked body. "Never mind looking in the blur for Amling's lifeline. I guess he came down outside the safety zone too." He knelt briefly over the body, gripping his weapons staff while his IF eyes searched the rainy night as best they could, and described the situation. The line had been scratched at precise depth across the road by some tool or cybernetic limb that sliced stone like cheese; quite likely the same implement that had removed the back of Amling"s head. "Maybe it marked the boundary line of violence for us; just to let us know that it's aware of it." Derron did not dawdle there. For a time he walked backward toward Oibbog, staff ready, trying to probe with eyes and ears the rainy night as he recreated from it. Not that his senses, or his reactions, were likely to be good enough if the enemy was there. But he was spared. The berserker had killed in passing, where it could do so safely, and then had gone on about its real business. V B y the time Derron reached the place where the road bent sharply to the left toward the wash-out bridge, the lightning had gone on over the horizon, so he felt rather than saw the bulk of the hill and cathedral ahead of him and above. But close by the side of the road he could now make out the monastery wall, the broken gate and, just inside the gateway, Vincento's coach deserted in the puddles. From the shelter of a cloister came the gentle mumbling and grunting of loadbeasts. Derron paused only a moment before plodding through the gate and across the soggy earth to the entrance of the main building. He made no effort to be quiet, and the dark entrance promptly emitted a challenge: "Who's there? Stand and give our name!" The dialect was one Derron had expected. He stopped, and as the beam of a lantern flicked out at him, he answered: "I am Valzay of Mosnar, mathematicus and scholar. From the coach and animals I see here, I judge that you within are honest men. And I have need of shelter." A door creaked, and behind the door the lantern retreated. "Step for'ard, then." Derron advanced slowly. When he had gotten in out of the rain he found himself in what had been the common room of the monastery, facing a pair of soldiers. One of these was armed with a crude pistol and the Other with a short sword; judging by their uniforms, they were from a mercenary company. When they could see his gentleman's clothes more plainly, their manner became more or less respectful. "Well, sir, how d'you come to be a-wandering afoot and alone?" He told how his skittish loadbeast, scared by lightning, had run off with his light sulky. A plague on the animal! If he could catch it in the morning, he'd have some of its hide off! With whip-cracking vehemence he shook water from his hat. Derron had an effortless feel for acting when there was a need. The soldiers chuckled, relaxed most of chat. There was certainly plenty of room here for another boarder -- the proprietary monks had left long ago. The place was no tavern with girls and ale; even firewood was in short supply, but the roof did keep the rain off. Yes, they were from a mercenary company, one now in the pay of the Holy Temple. Their captain with the builk of his men was in Oibbog, which was just across the river. They still harbored some suspicion of Derron -- he might conceivably be a scout for some well organized band of brigands -- so they did not. tell him how many soldiers had been caugiht on this side of the torrent when the bridge collapsed. He did not ask, of course, but he gathered that there were not very many. "And if the cap'n can't do more'n wave to us for the next couple days, why that's all right with us, hey what?" "Naw, no one else but the old gentletnan as owns the coach and his servant an' his driver. And a pair of friars. Plenty empty cells, sir, so take your pick. One's about as damp as the next." Derron murmured his thanks and, with some brief help from the lantern, groped his way down a passage and into a vacant cell, doorless now like all the others. Built against ithe rear wall was a wooden bunk frame that had not yet been ripped out for firewood, and on that he sat down. The rush of events had left him a little numb; he still could not quite grasp that Vincent Vincento was here somewhere within a few meters of 'him, might ev be the author of the snore that echoed faintly down the passage. D erron streached out on the wooden frame, knapsack under his head; genuinely iired, he found himself dozing toward sleep. His thoughts as consciousness dulled were filled not with Vincento or time travel or even berserkers, but simply with the sound of fading rain and the freshness of the infinite dean atmosphere around him. It was the theme of resurrection... He had been asleep for a few minutes when Operations put a throbbing behind his right ear. He came wide awake at once and tucked his carven wedge-symbol doser under his chin. "Odegard, you'rd in the monastery all right?" "Affirmative." "Good. Now we're getting our screens tuned in. There lare (fourteen lifelines in or near that monasterytemple complex, counting your own. One of course is Vincento's. One seems to be an unborn child's, you know how th'cy show on a screen in dots and daes." Derron mused sulbvocally. "Let's see. Me, Vincento, his two servants, and the two soldiers I've seen. That makes six. And they said there were two friars. Eight, which would leave six more unaccounted for. Probably four more soldiers and a campfollower who's picked up something she won't want to carry -- though that one soldier did say something about there being no girls. Anyway, I suppose your idea is there may be some apparent person here who has no 'Hfdine showing on your screens -- our hypothetical berserker-android." IF 'That's precisely our idea, yes." "Tomorrow I can count noses and ve'll see... wait." At the entrance of Derron's cell  shape of lesser blackness became screte and moved. The figure of a tiooded friar, utterly faceless in the oom, came a halfstep inside before halting abruptly and muttered a few indistinguishable words that might have been an apology for entering the wrong cell. The figure then withdrew as silently it had come. Derr on was gripping his staff, pointing it at the dooiway. "Just had a short visit from someone. Or maybe from something. Maybe that's where Amling's robe went." Hours passed before Derron dozed again. W hen Vincento was awakened in darkness to find himself bedded amid damp straw, with bare stone walls close about him, he knew a moment of sinking terror. The worst had already hapened, and he lay in the Defender's dungeon. The terror was deepened when he saw the monk-hooded figure bending over him. He could see in the moonlight which filtered now through the tiny window. Evidently the rain was over -- The rain -- of course, he was still on his way to the Holy City for his trial! The intensity of his relief was such that Vincento accepted his being awakened almost with courtesy. "What is it?" he gasped, sitting up on his shelf of a t, pulling his traveling-rug closer about his shoulders. His manservant Will slept on a bundled mound on the dark floor. The visitor's hooded face could not be seen; the visitor's voice was a sepulchral whisper; "Messire Vincento, come alone to the cathedral tomorrow. At the crossways of nave and transepts you will receive good news, from your friends in high places." Could Nabur or Belam be sending him some secret word? Or, more likely, was this some Defenders's trickery? A man summoned to trial was not supposed to discuss the matter with anyone. "It will be good news, Messire Vincento. Come alone and be willing to wait if you are not met at once. And do not seek to know my name or face." Vincento held his silence; he would commit himself to nothing. But the visitor, satisfied that the message had been heard, melted away into the night. W hen Vincento awakened again, it was from a pleasant dream. He had been back on the estate provided for him by the Senate of his city, safe in his own bed, with his mistress's warm body solid and comforting beside him. In reality the woman had been gone for some time -- women no longer meant very much -- but the estate was still there. If only they would let him return to it in peace! He had been awakened this time by the touch on his face of a shaft of morning sunlight, which came striking into his cell from the high thin window of the opposite cell across the corridor. As he lay recaUing with curiosity his strange midnight visitor, the sun-shaft was fiik)wly moving away from his face. That motion made it instantly, for him, a golden pendulum of subtle torture. He faced also the pendulum of choice. His mind could swing one way, tick, and meet in foresight the shame of swallowed truth and pride, the humiliation of an enforced recanting. And the other way, tock, there would be the breaking agony of the boot or the rack, or slower destruction in a buried cell. Oh, of course, the crude physical torture was a remote threat only. He would have to be very obstinate and outspoken before the Defenders would go that far with him. But it was not impossible. They would say that a stubborn defendant forced them to employ such means. So his pendulum of choice was not real; he had no real choice but to recant. Let the sun move as they want it to. Let it whirl round the globe in an insane yearly spiral, to please arrogant fools who thought they could read all the secrets of the universe in a few dusty pages of the Holy Writings. Lying on his back, Vincento rais a hand veined with ropy vessels against the slow-swiveling torture-blade of the sun. But the sun would not be stopped in its motion by any man's hand. It mocked him all the more, making bright translucent wax out of the oldness of his fingers. On the floor. Will stirred sluggishly in his rug-cocoon. Vincento barked him awake and chased him out to rouse the coachman Rudd, who slept beside the beasts -- Rudd to look at the river's level. Will to start getting something together for breakfast. Left alone, he began the slow humiliating process of getting his aging bones unlimbered and ready for what the day might bring. In recent years his health had been poor. But he was not sick now, only old. And yes, he was afraid. By the time Will came to inform him that a fire and hot tea were ready in the monastery's common room, Vincento was ready also. W ith mild surprise he found a new arrival in the common room, a youngster who introduced himself as Valzay of the distant land of Mosnar. Valzay made, as he put it, a modest claim to scholarship. And for a wonder he was decently respectful -- he looked at Vincento with genuine, if restrained, awe and murmured that even in bis distant homeland Vincento's discoveries were known and praised. Vincento acknowledged all this with pleasant nods, sipping his morning tea, wondering if this Valzay was the bearer of the good news he was supposed to hear from someone in the cathedral. Anyway he was not going to rush up there at once; Rudd reported that the river was no longer rising, but still too high and dangerous at this point for anyone to think of fording it. One more day, maybe. So Vincento took his time consuming tea and a little food, told Rudd to give the two friars something if IP they came round, then strolled leisurely out into the sunshine to warm his bones. If he came late to his trial, there were plenty of witnesses here to tell the reason. Let the Defenders inveigh against the river, if they liked. No doubt it would dry up for them. No doubt all of nature could be made to do their bidding if they but threatened it enough. But he must begin to practice his humility. He called to WiU to bring him his writing materials from the coach, and he went to sit alone in the sun outside the broken monastery gate, with one tumbled block of stone for a bench and another for a table. It was really about time he started writing his statement of recantation for the trial. Of course, the accused was not supposed to know why he had been summoned -- probably the Defenders's first question would be whether he had any idea of what he was charged with. But in his case there could hardly be any doubt. It had been fifteen years since the warning, which Vincento had halfforgotten; but when the summons came, he realized he had made enemies among men who never forgot anything. T he first paper he pulled from his portable escritoire was the old letter from Defender Belam. Involuntarily Vinoento's eye went at once to the words: "... no proof of our globe's motion exists, as I believe, since none has been shown to me." No proof. Vincento wiped at his forehead with a tremulous hand. Now, with mortal fear to enforce bleak clarity of thought, he could see that the arguments he had conjured up from tides and sunspots really proved nothing about the motion of sun and planets. The truth about those motions had come to him before he had ever thought of proving it -- he had looked long through telescopes, he had thought long and deeply, his mind weighing the sun and grasping at stars and comets; and truth had come through some inward door, like -- just like a revelation. His enemies who cried him down were blind and stupid in their refusal, or their inability, to see. And yet he knew that those who were to sit as his judges were shrewd logicians, within their limitations. If only there were something firm that he could set simply and incontrovertibly before them... oh, what would he not give! His mind ached, and his fists clenched, his very guts contracted at the thought. If he had one solid simple proof he would risk all, he would dare anything to confront and confound them with it, to rub their long arrogant noses in the very obvious truth! But since there was nothing to support this mood of glorious defiance, it soon passed. The truth was he was old and afraid, and he would recant. Slowly he got out pen and ink, and slowly he began his first draft. From time to time he paused, sitting in the sun with closed eyes, trying not to think. VI D erron counted seven soldiers round the breakfast fire and found each of them overjoyed to accept a swallow of brandy from to talk. No, there was no one else in the monastery or cathedral or nearer than the town across the river. Not that they knew of. When he was alone a few minutes later, Derron did some subvocal mumbling. "Operations? Count the lifelines here again. I make it thirteen of us. If you can make it twelve, then one of my smiling companions has clockwork for guts. But if you come out with fourteen again, th either there's some bandit or deserter lurking in a corner or you're misreading. I think you're misreading that dotted line, anyway; I consider it unlikely that any of us here is pregnant, since we're all men." Operations was apologetic. "We'll recheck right away; you know it's not easy reading these things." After finishing their morning meal and emptying Derron's brandy flask, most of the soldiers settled down to serious loafing. Rudd, Vincento's coachman, led his loadbeasts forth in search of grass. Following them through the gate, Derron located Vincento, sitting peacefully alone and apart. Well and good. Remembering his mythical loadbeast and sulky, Derron put on an exasperated expression and strolled along the road toward the bridgestump, scanning the muddy fields on either side as if in search of his property. At the bridge-stump were the two friars, gray cowls thrown back from their unremarkable heads. They seemed to be talking of ways in which the bridge might sometime be rebuilt. Derron knew that within a year or two, the river would be spanned here by new arches of stone. And those arches would still be standing solidly more than three hundred years later, when a young postgraduate history student would come on a hiking tour with the girl he loved, enthusiastic about seeing the town and cathedral of Oibbog... the river would look much different then, gentler of course and with more trees along its banks. While the stones of the road would still look much the same... yTay the Holy One give you a iVl good day, esteemed sir!" It was the stouter of the friars whose voice broke in upon the start of reverie. The interruption was welcome. "Good day to you also, reverend brothers, in His name. Does the river stiU rise?" The thinner friar had a loving face. In hands all bone and tendon he held a chunk of masonry, as if he meant to start this minute fo rebuild the bridge. 'The river falls now, sir. How goes the path of your life, up or down?" The falsehood about beast and buggy seemed dreary and unnecessary. "That can hardly be an easy question for any man to answer." Seven or eight of the local peasantry had materialized out of mud and distance and were plodding their IF barefoot way along the drying bank of the torrent toward the bridgestump. One walking in front swung proudly in his hand a string of large and silvery fish, fresh enough to be still twitching and twisting. A few paces away the peasants halted. Together they bowed rather perfunctorily in Derron's direction; he was not dressed finely enough to overawe anyone, and plainly he was not the one hey had come to see. The man with the fish began talking to the friars, and almost at once others interrupted him, all squabbling over who had the right to speak first and who the right of disposal of the fish. They had come to strike a bargain. Would the holy brothers accept one of these fine fish ("From me!" "From me, Holy Brother, it was my fishline!") and in return say some potent prayers for the giver's crops? Derron turned away from what gave promise of becoming a nasty quarrel among the peasants to see that Vincento was still alone. And the full sunlit view of the Cathedral of Oibbog caught Derron unawares. The tip of the central spire held its symbolic wedge two hundred and sixty feet above the flattened hilltop. The stones of tower and wall, of arch and flying buttress were rich clear gray, almost shining in the morning light. Inside, the stained glass would be living flame along the eastern wall. There was only one sight in all the world like this, and he had seen it only once before, with his beloved at his side. If air and grass were now aJive again, surely she too must be alive and somewhere near where he might reach her. The resurrected reality before him was at the moment more convincing than any thought or, logic. At any moment now he might hear her voice, might be able to reach out and touch... There was a splash nearby. The stout friar was wearing a caricature expression of anger, disappointment and surprise, while the t hinn er one stood with a hand stretched out over the water. As Derron watched, a big fish jumped and splashed again; one of the slippery catch had evidently escaped... touch her warm and living skin. The way her hair moved in the wind came back to him now, with the clarity of something seen only a minute ago. His feet took him away from the bridge, back along the road. He saw without really thinking that Vincento still sat alone in the sun. The hill raised its cathedral before Derron, and his feet began a steady climb. J ovann was looking sadly at the peasants, while he addressed the splasher in the water. "Brother Fish, I have given you liberty not because we do not need food, but so you may be able to praise God, who sends all blessings -- the fish to the angler, or freedom to the fish. We men so often forget to be thankful!" The fish splashed and leaped and splashed again. As if the pain of air -- or something else -- had driven it quite mad. Jovann looked down at this watery uproar in distress. "Be still now, Brother Fish. Enough! Live in the water, not the painful air. Give praise and thanks as a fish may naturally do!" The splashing stopped. The last ripples and foam were swept away downstream. Every peasant's hands were raised in the wedge-sign, and they darted their eyes at one another as if they would have liked to run but dared not. Brother Saile's face gaped as blankly as had the fish's, as his eyes ung from Jovann to the river and back again. Jovann beckoned Saile away and said to him: "I am going apart for an hour, to pray the Holy One to cleanse me of anger and pride. And for these poor men's crops. Do you likewise." And Jovann walked away alone, following the riverbank in the opposite direction from the peasants. A s Derron climbed the steps that switchbacked up the face of the cathedral hill, it crossed his mind that at this moment in time the genes of the girl he loved were scattered in the chromosomes of some two thousand ancestors. Only in such a tenuous sense was she alive today. He had never forgiven her for dying, for being helplessly killed emptying his world. So, he told himself, forgive her now, today. Get it all over with, out of your system once and for all, so you can be some good to yourself. Now the roof of the monastery was below the level of his climbing feet. And now his eyes rose above the level of the paved space before the cathedral door. Here all seemed to him just as he remembered it. He stood upon the very stones where her feet and his would one day stand, facing the same hedges and statues along the cathedral's front. Holiday and love might still be true, war and grief no more than bad dreams. But it was she who was the dream now, who would never again be anything more. For a moment the knowledge was almost too much, still -- he thought he might be going to kneel down or fall down or cry aloud -- but then it could be accepted, at last, at long long last. He was not going to collapse or even cry out. They had looked out over the valley from here and talked about building their home on some nearby spot, the home for the kids they were going to have. Now he was just going to stand here and go on living. The crisis building up in him since he had known he might see Oibbog again slowly faded. Peace and stillness reigned. He had still to go into the building, where he had spent a morning helping her photograph stained glass. He wished he could be lucky enough to find the supposed author of the universe inside; Derron would have a few pointed questions to ask. The main door was just as solidly hung as he remembered it; he wondered briefly if a wooden door might last three hundred years. No matter. IF He tugged it open and heard the booming reverberation of the broken closure come back from the cavernous interior. And only then did he recall that his staff with all its weaponry was resting back in his monastery cell. No matter; immediate violence from the berserker was not a danger. H e went in and paced down the center of the enormous nave. There was nothing to be seen of God or berserker, nor for that matter of deserter or pregnant waif whose lifeline might be showing up to confuse operations. There would seem to be room in here for all of them to hide. The arched nave was about three hundred feet long and a hundred feet high for most of that length. Construction had not been quite completed when the workmen had been ordered or frightened off the job; much scaffolding still surrounded columns and clung to walls, and a few abandoned tools were very slowly gathering dust where they had been set down. Whether because of the combatants's reverence or superstitious awe, or only by chance, war had not trampl here. Even the stained glass was all intact, splintered only by the sun coming in to fire the gloom with richness. This main body of the temple was now no more than a few decades old. The paving stones of the nave, the wide steps leading to side chapels, all were flat and unworn; three centuries and more of random footsteps would be needed to shape them into standard distribution curves. Here and there the workmen's cables and ropes hung from the scaffolding, as steady in the motionless air as if carved from stone themselves. As Derron approached the intersection of transepts and nave, a movement caught the corner of his eye. One of the friars, hood worn over his head, here in God's house, was approaching him. Derron cleared his throat. "Reverend Brother." And then it struck him as odd, that one of the two men he had left at the bridge should have hurried here ahead of him. Peering closely, he saw that the face beneath the cowl was not quite a face. The hands reaching to grab him as the figure shot forward were dummy flesh, split open now to show the steel claws. A little mob of peasants was coming up the road from the bridgehead, babbling loudly of miracles and fish. The noise was distracting, and in truth Vincento was only too ready to let himself be distracted from his humiliating task. He summoned Will, gave him the escritoire and papers to take in charge and then turned his own steps restlessly upward in the fine sunlight. He had decided that the meeting supposedly arranged in the cathedral was probably some Defenders's snare. Let them try! he would see through it before they had gotten very far. No more than the oafs who called themselves scholars were clerics Vincento's equals in cleverness. It was only the Defenders's power he respected and feared, never their brains. IP He was patient with his old legs, and so they served him well enough,on the climb. After a pause at the top to breathe, he entered at the cathedral's main door, tugging it firmly closed behind him. He devoutly hoped that no one was going to meet him to offer sympathy. A sympathizer always had at least some implied claim to be the equal -- or even the superior! -- of the one he tried to console. Pah! Vincento strolled through the nave, a stone-sealed space too vast to give the least sense of confinement. To his right and left, columns towered in their parallel rows. With distance the apparent gap between each column and the next diminished, until at fifty paces each row became opaque as a wall. No matter where a man stood inside this unpartitioned space, half of it would always be blocked from his view -- more than half, if one counted the areas of the transept-arms and the chapels. W hen he reached the appointed meeting place, the crossways of nave and transepts, Vincento could look directly up nearly two hundred feet, into the shadowed interior of the mighty spire. There were workmen's platforms there too, reached by ladders mounting from the clerestory level, where must be the upper end of some stair that coiled up within the wall from floor level. In this temple ithere were no chandeliers and no breezes to swing them if they had existed. If in Vincento's youth this had been his parish house of worship, he could hardly have begun, during a drowsy Sabbath sermon, to discover the laws of pendulums. A single cable of great length descended thinly from the uttermost dark interior of the spire. Vincento's eye followed it down, to find that after all there was a pendulum here, at least in potential. For a bob, there hung on the end of the long cable a ball of metal that would be heavy as a man. This weight was caught and held by the merest loop of cord to one of the huge columns at a corner of the nave-transept intersection. Looking up and down, up and down again tended to make an old man dizzy. Vincento rubbed his neck. But what use could the builders have had for such a patriarch of pendulums? It could, Vincento supposed, be something they swung when hard stone and mortar had to be demolished. Or was it only a plumb-line made gigantic? Whatever they had intended it for, it was a pendulum. The restraining tether of cord, with its single knot, looked insubstantial. Vincento thrummed the taut little cord with his finger, and gently the long long cable whipped and swayed. The massive weight made tiny bobbing motions, dipping like a ship at anchor. Quickly the oscillations died away; the cathedral stillness regained ascendancy. Cord and weight and cable were once more as steady as the stone columns in the still gray air. The pendulum-ship was dry docked. Set sail, then! On impulse Vincento tugged once at the end of the knotted restraining cord. And with startling ease the knot dissolved. Starting from rest, the weight for a moment seemed reluctant to move. Even after it had undeniably begun its first swing, it still moved so slowly that Vincento's eye raced involuntarily once more up into the shadows of the spire, to see how it was possible that mere length of cord should so delay things. A man might have counted four without haste before the weight for the first time reached the center, the low-point, of its swing. Almost touching the floor, it passed that center in a smooth fast rush and immediately began to slow again, so that it needed four more counts to climb the gentle gradient of the far half of its arc. Then an unmeasurable instant's pause, not quite touching a column on the other side of the crossways, before the weight edged into its returning motion. Back and forth it went, in a perfectly straight track about ten yards in length. Vincento's eye could find no diminution in the amplitude of the first half-dozen swings. He supposed that a heavy weight swinging so freely might continue to oscillate for many hours or even for days. But wait. Vincento squinted at the pendulum. Holding hjs head motionless he watched it closely through another half dozen swings. W hat was it he had come in here for? Oh yes, someone was perhaps going to meet him. But this pendulum. He frowned at it and shook his head. He was going to have to make sure of something that he thought hesaw. Workmen's sawhorses stood not far away. He dragged a pair of these to where he wanted them, then spanned them with a plank, which lay beneath the end of the pendulum's arc and perpendicular to its direction. On the bottom of the swinging weight he had noticed a projection like a small spike -- whatever it had been designed for, it would serve Vincento's present purpose well. He laid a second board atop the first and readjusted his whole structure slightly. Now on each swing the spike passed within an inch of the topmost board. Somewhere in here he had seen sand... yes, piled there in a mixing-trough, by the entrance to the first side-chapel. The sand was damp with the long spell of wet weather; he brought handfuls and dumped them on the upper board, where he patted and built the sand into a small wall, an inch or two high, along the board's length. Then in an interval between swings he slid his upper board slightly forward, taking his sandwall into the edge of the pendulum's arc. A neatly designed experiment, he thought. On its first return the moving spike notched his little sand wall delicately, tumbling a tiny clot of grains down tlie minute slope. Then the weight pulled its taut cable away again, taking another nibble of eternity. Vincento held his breath, held his eyes from blinking as he watched the pendulum's return. Now he heard IF for the first time the faint ghostly hissing of its passage. The spike coming back to the wall f sand made a new notch, though one contiguous to the first. Then in movement huge and regular enough to be the cathedral's stately pulse, the weight once more departed. And the third notch was new again, by the same margin and in the same direction as the second. In three vibrations the plane of the pendulum had shifted its extremity sideways by half a finger width. His eyes had not deceived him earlier; it was creeping regularly clockwise. Perhaps some slow untwisting of the cable? Then it should soon reverse itself, Vincento thought, or at least vary in amplitude. Again he stared up into the high shadows. He would have to hang another pendulur. like this somewhere, someday, and study it at leisure. If he could. Even supposing that his health held out and he was spared prison, it would be difficult. Enclosed towers of this height were anything but common. In another temple or at some university, perhaps... but he had no intention of stooping to collaboration... suppose now that the sideways progression was not due to the cable unwinding. He thought he could feel that it was not -- in somewhat the same way as, after study, he had come to feel the stability of the sun. This clockwise creeping had something too elemental about it for him to be able to credit a trivial cause. Already the width of two fingers had been nibbled from the top of his little parapet of sand. He wondered how the cable was fastened at the top. Younger legs than his would be required to find that out, and Vincento departed to get them. Several times in his passage down the nave he turned, frowning back at the pendulum as he might have stared at an unexpected star. O f it all, Derron had seen only an upper segment of the moving cable. He saw even that much with only one eye, for his face was being held with steady force against the rough planking of the high platform to which the berserker had carried him, helpless as a kicking infant. Inhumanly motionless, it crouched over him now, one chill hand gripping his neck and holding part of his garment gaglike in his mouth, the other hand twisting one of his arms just to the point of pain. Obviously it had no intention of captivity felt more like eternity than time, though measured by the meaningless regularity of the swinging cable. Having his prisoner, the berserker was content to wait, which meant that he had failed. It had at once known his communicator for what it was, had ripped the wooden carving from his neck and cracked it like a thin-shelled nut, squeezing the meat of metal and components into trash between its fingers. Only when the cathedral door far below had boomed shut once more did eternity begin to come to an end. The berserker then let him go. Slowly and painfully he raised his numbed body from the wood. Rubbing the arm that had been twisted, he turned to face his enemy. Under the cowl he saw a pattern of seamed metal that looked as if it might be able to open and slide and reshape itself. Was there plastic somewhere inside that could evert to become  the mask of a human face? There  was no way to tell that much, let  alone guess what identity it might be able to wear. "Colonel Odegard," it said, in a voice machine-tailored to neutrality. He waited for more, while the thing facing him on the high platform squatted on its heels, arms hanging limp. Like the face, the hands were ambiguous; they were not human now, but there was no saying what they might be able to become. The rest of the thing was hidden under the shapeless robe, which had probably once been Amling's. "Colonel Odegard, do you fear the passage from life to not-life?" He didn't know what he had expected to hear, but hardly that. "And if I do, what difference does it make?" "Yes," said the berserker. "What is programmed goes on regardless of any passage." Before he could try to make any sense out of that, the machine jumped precisely forward and grabbed him again. He struggled again, which of course made no difference. It tore strips from his coat, ripping the tough cloth with precise and even sounds. With the strips it gagged him IF again and tied him hand and foot tightly, buit still not so tihat h felt hopeless of ever working free. It would not blunder into causing his death, here where it must be careful not to kill. When it had bound him, the machine paused for a moment, moving its cowled head like a listening man, searching the area with senses far beyond the human. And then it was gone, down the ladder in utter silence, like a giant cat or ape. He strained desperately to get loose, choking curses on his gag. F rom some village in the hills a second group of peasants had come along the road to the cathedral. It was Brother Saile they met first; their anxious faces fell even further when they learned he was not the saint and niiracle-worker of whom the whole countryside was talking. 'Tell me, what is it you wish to see Brother Jovann about?" Saile inquired, his hands clasped with dignity across his belly. They clamored piteously. For the past several xdays a great wolf had cattle and even a child and even -- they swore it! -- uprooting crops. They were isolated and very poor, with no powerful patron to give them aid of any kind, save only the Holy One himself! And now the saintly Jovann, who must and would do something. They were utterly desperate. Brother Sale nodded, ihis face showing sympathy mixed with relucmiles distant? In die bills. Well -- we sihall see. Come wiitih me, and I will put your case before good Brother Jovann." W ith a puzzled Will beside him, Vincento entered the cathedral once more and hurried down the nave. Rudd had bothered him, complaining of ithe scarcity of food for the loadbeasts. And then his old legs had rebelled against climbing the hill a second time. Now, when he got back to the still-swinging penduiium, more than an hour had passed since he had first set it in motion. The tiny ibattlement of sand had been demolished by continuous notches, up to the point where the pendulum's plane had left it ibehind altogether. By now that plane had inched clockwise through ten or twelve degrees of arc. "Will, you've helped me in the workshop. Now this is another such case, where you must do precisely what I say." "Aye, master." "First, keep in mind that you are not to stop or disturb the swinging of the cable here. Understood?" "Aye." "Now I want you to climb; there seem to be ladders and platforms enough for you to go up all the way. I want to learn how this swinging cable is mounted, what holds it at the top. Look at it until you can draw me a sketch, you're good at that." "Aye, I understand, sir." Will craned his neck unhappily. "It's a long bit o' climbing, though." "Yes, yes, a coin for you when you're down. Another when you've given me a good sketch. Take your time now and use your eyes. And do not disturb the cable's swing." Derroo had made only slight progress toward' loosing his 'hands, when he heard clumsier feet than the berserker's olimibing toward him. Then between the uprights of the ladder Wni's honest face came into view to predictably register shock. "... bandit!" Derron spat, when his hands had been cut free and he could rid himself of the gag. "Must've been hiding in here somewhere... forced me up here and tied me up." Wondering and sympathetic. Will shook his head. "Likely he'd 'a slit your throat, sir, but didn't want to do no sacrilege. Think he might still be here about?" "No, I'm sure he was running away." "Long gone, then, by this time." Will shook his head. "You'd better liven up your limbs, sir, before you starts to climb down. I'm going on up, bit of a job to do for master." "Job?" "Aye." Will was already climbing again, right into the spire. Still on all fours, Derron peered over the edge of the platform. Vincento's ginger-colored hair marked a toy figure more than a hundred feet below. Down there the mysterious moving cable ended in a dot which traced back and forth with sedate regularity... Derron's muscles locked, and he felt himself near falMng. He had suddenly understood what Vincento was looking at, what Vincento had IF probably been studying all tihe while the berserker held Derron captive. Its earliest designers on old Earth had called it a Foucault pendulum. vm C  T T onorable Vincento!" jni Vincento looked around in surprise and some annoyance as the young man, Alzay or Valzay or whatever his name was, came hurrying toward him from the foot of the tiny stair by which Will had begun his climb. Valzay rushed up, babbling some imbecilic story about a bandit, spouting pestiferous wordage that threatened to tangle Vincento's thoughts. "Young man, I suggest you give your recitation to the soldiers." Now, if it was not the cable untwisting, and proved to be not some trick of the mounting above... certainly the bones of the cathedral were not creeping counterclockwise... but yet his mind strained forward into unknown territory... "I see, Messire Vincento, that you have discovered my little surprise." Derron saw very clearly how the game was certain to go, perhaps had gone already. But one desperate gamble was still open to him, and he took it. "Your little surprise?" Vincento's words became low and measured, while his brows knit as if presaging thunder. "Then it was you who sent that rascally friar to me in the night?" Derron let the question of the friar pass. "It was I who arranged -- this." He gestured with proprietary pride at the pendulum, and m a few words he sketched the outline of a huge lie. How he had really been here a day before the other refu gees, with friends to help him (this lie would not stand investigation, but if Derron's plan succeeded, Vincento would never want to investigate) install the pendulum -- while in his mind Derron visualized the berserker here, catlike, monkeylike, devilish, arranging mounting and cable and weight in order that: "... you see before you, Messire Vincento, a firm proof of the rotation of the globe!" There was a start in the old eyes, but no real surprise; a desperate gamble had been justified, all right. Now Vincento had become a waiting statue, mouth twisted and eyes unblinking. Derron went on: "Of course I have followed your example, distinguished sir, and that of a number of our contemporaries, in protecting my rightful claim to this discovery while keeping it secret yet a while, for my own advantage in further research. To this end have I sent anagram messages encoding the truth to distinguished persons in several parts of the world. "Though as I say, sir, I had meant to reserve the secret yet a while, I cannot stand idly by during your present difficulties." "A proof of our Robe's rotation, you say." The tone was blank, suspended. "Ah, forgive me for not exiplaining! I had hot thought it necessary -- you see, the plane of the penduI'um does not rotate, k is our globe that rotates beneath it." Derron hesitated, as if it had just occurred to him that Vincento might be getting just a little slow and senile. Then he spoke on, more slowly and distinctly. "At the poles, this device will trace daily a full circle of three hundred and sixty degrees. At the equator it will appear not to rotate at all." Mercilessly he poured out in detail his three-and-ahalfcenturies' advantage of accumulated knowledge. "Between these extremes the rate of rotation is proportional to the latitude; here, it is about ten degrees per hour. And since we are in the northern hemisphere the direction of apparent rotation is clockwise..." W ill was shouting at his master from high above: "... she be mounted free to turn any way, but there be nothing turning her!" Vincento shouted up: "Come down!" "... bit more study if 'ee wants a sketch..." "Come down!" The thick lips spat it out. Derron kept the pressure on, switching his emphasis now to remorseless generosity. "... my only wish of course now being to help you, sir, to come to your rescue. In bygone years you have accomplished very substantial things, very substantial, and you must not now be cast aside. My lance is at your disposal; I will gliadly repeat this demonstration of my discovery for the authorities inthe Holy City, so that the world may witness -- " "Enough! I have no need of helpr Vincento's tone madethe last word an obscenity. "You will not -- meddle -- in -- my -- affairs. Not in the least degree!" Before Vincento's terrible contempt and wrath, Derron found himself physically retreating, even as he realized that he had won his gamble -- his wager that the old man's pride was as monumental as his genius. Derron stood in silence as Vincento, shrinking once more under his bufdens of age and weariness and fear, turned away with a parting look of hatred. Vincento would never usethe Foucault proof; he would never believe it. It was one direction in which he would nevermore want to investigate; he would force the whole thing from his mind if he could. The smallness and jealousy that were leading him to trial and humiliation existed not only in other men, but in himself. Derron knew that Vincento at his historical trial would not only recant, he would go beyond what his judges asked or want of him and offer to wriite a new pamphlet, proving that the sun did after all move around the world of men. My only wishbeing to help you, sir. Vincento's figure dwindled to the end of the nave, and at last the door boomed shut behind him. Now even Vincento couldbe forgotten for the moment, for real victory and hope were heady things. Getting away ahead of Will's questions, Derron hurried out of the cathedral by a side door and skipped down the steep stairs toward IF the monastery. If the 'berserker had not also smashed the backup communicator hidden in his staff, he could tell the Modern world of victory. The enemy had not bothered with anything in his cell. As he came near it, an emergency summons from Operations began to throb in the bone behind his ear. B rother Saile was puffing, though he was making no effort to hurry along the narrow cattle-path that wound up and down hill through scrubby bushes and thin woods. Instead he hung back and with almost every puff of breath tried to discourage Brother Jovann's progress. "I thought -- to say a few prayers in the village -- would have been sufficient. These peasants, as you know -- are often foolish. They may have -- greatly exaggerated -- the depredations of this supposed wolf." "Then my own peasant foolishness is not likely to cause any harm," said Jovann, leading on implacably. They were deep in the wolfs supposed domain; their peasant supplicants and guides had turned back through fear a quarter of a mile earlier. "I spoke too harshly of them, may the Holy One forgive me." Saile wheezed to the top of a hilf and gathered breath for readier speech on the descent. "Now if this one beast has really caused in a few days all the death and damage they claim for it, or even half so much, it would be utter folly for us to approach it unarmed as we are. It is not that I doubt for an instant the inscrutable wisdom of Providence which can cause a fish to leap for joy after you have released it, noc do I doubt the story I once heard of the gentle little birds listening to your preaching. But a wolf, any wolf, is quite another..." Brother Jovann did not appear to be listening very closely. He had paused briefly to follow with his eyes a train of scavenger-insects which crossed the path and vanished into the brush. Then he went on, more slowly, until a similar train appeared a little further along the trail. There Brother Jovann turned, walking noisily into the brush, leading his companion toward the spot where it seemed the two lines of insects must intersect. IX S taff in hand, Derron made the best cross-country time he could, running fifty steps and walking fifty. "Odegard!" Operations had cried out. "There's another lifeline just as vital as Vincento's there with you. Or he was with you. Now he and one of the others have moved out a couple of miles. They're about to leave the safety zone. You'll have to protect them. They'll be at the berserker's mercy if it's out there waiting." And of course it would be out there, in ambush or pursuit. The attack on Vincento had been in deadly earnest, like the first punch in a good one-two. But it was the second punch that was really intended as the killer. And humanity had left itself wide open. Running fifty, walking fifty, Derron covered ground steadily along the (bearing Operations had given him. He asked: "Just who am I looking for?" And when they told him, he thought he should have guessed the name, should have been 'alerted by his first look into that gentle and loving face. I n the midst of the thicket there had been havoc. Days ago it had happened, for the tree branches that had been broken were now dead. And though insects were still busy among the wreckage of bone and gray fur on the ground, there was no 'longer much left for them to scavenge. "This was a very big wolf," said Brother Jovann, bending to pick up a piece of jawbone. The tone had been shattered by some violent blow, but this fragment still contained teeth of impressive size. "Very big, certainly," said Brother Saile, though he knew very little about wolves. He did not care to learn more and kept looking around him nervously. Jovann was musing aloud. "Now, what manner of creature can it be that deals thus with a big male wolf? Even as I in my greed have sometimes dealt with the tones of a 'little roast fowl... but no, these bones 'have not been gnawed for nourishment. Only broken and broken again, as if by some creature who is even more wantonly savage than a wolf." T he name of Brother Jovann, saint, symbol of gentleness and love meant something to Modern skeptics as well as 'believers, to both historians and laymen. Like Vincento, he had become a towering folkfigure, imperfectly understood. "We're just catching on to Joviann's practical importance," said Time Ops' voice in Derrcn's head. "Historically his lifeline goes on about fifteen years from your point, and all along the way it radiates support to other Knes. What has been described as 'good-turn-a-day stuff.' These other lines tend to reradiate life support in turn, and the process propagates up through history. Our best judgment now is that the disarmament treaty three hundred years after Jovann's death will fall through and an international nuclear war will wipe us all out in pre-Modern times if St. Jovann is terminated at your point." A girl's voice came in briskly: "A new report for Colonel Odegard." Derron asked: "Lisa?" She hesitated for just an instant; then, business first. "Colonel -- the lifeline that was described to you earlier as having an embryonic appearance is moving out of the safety z#one after the other two, at what seems an unaccountably high speed. We can give no explanation. You're to bear five degrees left, also."J. "Understand." Derron tore five degrees left, as near as he could judge. "Lisa?" "Derron, they put me on because I said I'd tend strictly to business." "You do that." He began to run IF once more, his breath coming in gasps. 'I just wish -- you were carrying my baby." There was a faint, completely feminine sound. But when Lisa's voice came back intelligibly it was all business again, with more bearings to be given. F rom the corner of his eye Brother Saile caught the movement of something coming toward them through the trees and bush; he turned, squinting under the afternoon sun, and with surprise at his own relative calm he saw that their search for a killer wolf had come to an end. Monster instead of wolf, Ierhaps, but he could not doubt it was the killer, come now to find the searchers. Silent, poisonous and deadlylooking as a silver wasp, the mansized creature came at a catlike run through the scrub forest. Brother Saile understood that he should now try to lay down his life for his friend, he should shove Brother Jovann back and rush forward himself to distract the thing. And something in Brother Saile wanted to be that heroic, but his belly and his feet had turned to lead and would not let him. He tried at least to shout a warning, but even his throat was paralyzed by fear. At last he' did manage to seize Brother Jovann by the arm and point. "Ah," said Jovann, coming out of a reverie and turning to see. A score of paces away the monster crouched on its four legs. Peasants glimpsing it might call it wolf. Shreds of gray cloth clung to it, as if it had been dressed and then had wolf-like torn itself out of the garment. Terrible and beauitifuil at once, it flowed like quicksilver two rapid strides closer to the men and then settled again into a crouching, silent statue. "In God's n-name come away!" Brother SaUe whispered, through shivering jaws. "It is no natural beast. Come away. Brother Jovann!" But Jovann only raised his hands and signed 'the horror with the wedge; he seemed to be blessing it rather than exorcising. "Brother Wolf," he said lovingly, "you do indeed look unlike any beast I have ever seen before, and I know not from what worldly parentage you may have sprung. But there is in you the spirit of life; therefore never forget that our Father above has created you, as He has created ah other creatures, according to his own plan, so we are all children of the one Father." The wolf darted forward and stopped, stepped and stopped, inched and stopped again, in a fading oscillation. In its open mouth Saile thought he saw fangs not only long and sharp, but blurring with vicious motion like the teeth of some incredible saw. At last there came forth a sound, and Saile was reminded simultaneously of ringing swordblades and of human agony. Jovann dropped to one knee, facing the monster more on a level. He embrace. The thing bounded in a blur of speed toward ihkn, then stopped as if caught by a leash. It was still six or eight paces from the kneeling man. Again it uttered sound; Saile, halffainting, seemed to hear the creak of the torture rack and the cry of the victim rise together. Jovann's voice had nothing to do with fear, but only blended sternness with its love. "Brother Wolf, you have killed and pillaged hke a wanton crimi-nal, and for that you deserve punishment! But accept instead the forgiveness of all ithe men you have wronged. Come now, here is my hand. In the name of the Hdy One, come to me and pledge that from this day on you live in peace with men. Come!" X A s Derron came up at a staggering, exhauted run, he first heard a murmur of speech and then saw the figure of Brother Saile standing motiontess. Derron then lurched to a halt, raising his staff; but Saile was not looking at him, and Derron knew now that Saile was not the berserker. What Operations had said about the embryonic lifeline and what the berserker had said in the cathedral had at last fitted together to make a wondrous kind of sense. Three steps sideways brought Derron to where he could see what Saile was gaping at. He was only in time to see the berserker-wolf take the last hesitant step of its advance. To see it raise one metal paw -- and with its steel claw-fingers gently touch the kneeling friar's extended hand. #Qo, my guess was right, it had O become a living thing," said Derron. His head rested in lisa's lap, and he looked up past her face at the park's treetops and imitation sun. "And as such, susceptible to St. Jovann's domination. To his love. There's no other way to put it." Lisa stroked his forehead. "Are you eating up the pious legends?" "Oh, there are rational explanations. The most complex and compact machine the terser kers ever built, shot up through twenty thousand years evoluntionary gradient -- something like life was bound to happen to it. Or so we say now. And Jovann and some other men have had amazing power over living things." "I looked up this particular pious legend," said Lisa. "It says that after being tamed by St. Jovann, it lived like a pet dog in the village." "That would have been the original wolf. I suppose the berserker meant all along to kill the animal and take its place during the taming episode. But tearing the real wolf into little bits was an irrational, thing to do -- if we'd known about that sooner we might have guessed. I might have guessed in the cathedral, when it babbled to me about passages between life and notlife. Or when it came to my cell in the night, for no reason valid to a machine. Anyway, Operations isn't as trusting as Jovann and his biographers. We've got the thing in a cage in present-time while the scienitisits try to decide..." Derron had to pause, for a young lady was bending over him with the IF  Novelette Illustrated by It was just a little problem of misrouted mail -- too bad it was destroying the galaxy! K lonit-#-Z-Bih slithered vtly (from his ofifice out onto the steel-decked veranda, contracting the laifter part of his long body so his last few legs could squeeze out. He cpiled himself into a spiral, letting 'his soaiey chin rest on the railing while his slitted, amber eyes roved boredly over his domain. A pair of plinch birds -- four-winged, fourlegged, pink-(feathered -- sailed around the building, saw him, slowed a little and fluted in unison: "Good morning, Director." "Mominig," he rumbled, keeping his voice down so he wouldn't turbulate the air around him. "Something up?" "No, Director. Just taking lunches to a couple of blens, One of the birds hefted the carton in its talons. "Oh," Klonit sighed. That was the hell of it. Galkbar wasn't too bad, for an uninhabited, remote planet -- though at times he'd give a foozlunk of his salary for a bake under the huge orange sun of his home world -- but nothing ever happened. It had been over a year since anyone even appeared to claim mail in person. Just stasis-parcels warping in, warping out or being held in storage; routine reports, things his Central Computer and the various workrobots could have handled without supervision. The only reason he had any live personnel at all was that certain races who were members of the Sector Customs And Mail Union had prejudices against robots. Seveiral of his toe-daiws scratched idly at joints between his bodyscaJes, while others taipped a bored little rhythm on the steel decking. He watched the two plinch birds pause in flight for a moment to tease one of the planet's huge greenand-yellow butterflies, then continue on toward Sundry Warehouse No. Six, one of the few buildings above ground. A pair of blens -- muscular, brown, hairless bipeds, apparently quite conufortable nude in Galkbar's coolish lavender sunlight -- stepped into sight from behind Warehouse Six, where the pens were that held Live Unclaimed Mail. The plinch birds fluttered down toward them. H opefully, Klonit filled his forebody with air and let his full voice roll out. "Ho, you blens Anything up?" The brown bipeds jumiped as the blast of sound hit them. Their voices came from the communication-box Klonit wore at his throat. "N-no, Director. Just inventorying the Live Mail again. There's a new litter, just bom, of those big-eared things." Klonit growled. He knew for a certainty that much of the Live Mail being held would never be claimed. What he'd like to do was turn it loose on the rising brush-covered slope, whence came the smells of ripening berries and small indigenous animal life. But regulations said it had to be held three years. A sigh rippled back along his body. He supposed he ought to order lunch and get it over with. He didn't really know, though, what he wanted to eat, nor what he'd do with the afternoon. S ome thousands of light-years from Galkbar, Barth's first manned ship to Itfars settled slowly toward the floor of a crater. The skipper. Colonel Jason Glook, sat at the control console, peering at meters and viewscreens and making little motions of his fingers over various studs. Actually, the ship was landing herself, and he was only trying to look busy. In his mind he was going over the speech he'd soon tape for radioing, when possible, to Earth. He was a rather large man, well muscled, slightly gray at the temples. His tailored uniform was as neat as his small moustache. The tight curl of his hair, and the fullness of his lips, hinted at possible Negro blood, though his irises were agategray. His skin, with its careful tan, coiild be Caucasian. Something about the shape of his eyes, though, suggested an Oriental admixture; or ipossibly Semitic. Or, he could be an American Indian. Major Sarah Tolberg, dainty and feminine, stood a few steps back of him, her dark eyes, a little wide with excitement, fixed on the viewscreens. Beside her stood Lieutenant David Lobell. His boyish blue eyes and blond good looks contrasted piquantly with her dark beauty. He squeezed back and, to hide his confusion, said, "Uh, Colonel, that dust storm's beginning to spill over the rim of the crater." "All right. Lieutenant." Glock kept his voice languid, even as he shot an unobtrusive glance at a IF viewscreen. The sandstorm couldn't really harm the ship, of course, but it might sandblast off the name and other lettering on the outside, which were only painted on. He did have his heart set on a photograph of himself in a spacesuit with the justlanded ship as a background. Nervously, he twisted dials to swivel an outside telescope. "Maybe we can find shelter. That looks like a cave in the crater wall. Let's hop over and have a look, eh?" He sent the ship skimming in that direction. "Quite solid rock over it, wouldn't you say?" David Lobel said a trifle wistfully, "Looks almost artificial, doesn't it, sir?" G lock gave Sarah Tolberg his smile-f or-J unior-Off icers-female, tfien turned a more condescending one on David. "Always the romantic, eh. Lieutenant? No; your grandfather could speculate about Mardans; but now we know better. Lifeless world and always has been. Conditions absolutely wrong, you know. And as for anything coming from beyond the Sol System... well..." He shrugged to show how ridiculous that was. "Here we go in. Man that forward spotlight, will you. Lieutenant? Raise k a little, toward the ceiling. Right. Solid rock. Mm. We'll ease in here where it narrows, nice and snug. Now we'll put her down, gently... so." He raised his head and beamed at the two of them. For an instant he felt a twinge of masculine resentment that Sarah stood so dose to David, but it passed quickly. There were plenty of women, and anyway they were really (though one wouldn't say so, in public) more trouble than they were worth. Besides, with the pair of them so wrapped up in each other, they wouldn't be competing with him for the limelight, once the ship got back to Barth. "Well. Here we are! Lieutenant, you may os well begin getting the suits in order. And, Major -- perhaps, that bottle of wine we've been saving, eh?" He smiled brightly. At that moment his face went absolutely motionless, frozen in the smile. So did everything else in the ship. The drift of electrons, in wires, stopped. The molecules of the air halted their wild rebounding. The three occupants of the ship could not know of the sudden interruption, for it was a complete Time Stasis. When it was released, every molecule, every body cell, every thought, would resume as instantly as it bad halted. But, for now, nothing within the ship, not even Time, moved. The ship itself, though, and the capsule of strange forces that surrounded it moved, in an instant, some thousands of light-years. II K lonit toyed listlessly with his dessert of candied matl paws. He lifted a morsel toward his eatingparts, then let it stop in mid-air as a 'ping' came from the corn-box at his throat. "Yes?" Klonit listens." "Ah, ahem." Central Computer's voice, with a few lifelike flaws built into it, might have belon'ged to a blen or to any of a hundred other vocalizing species. "I tihought I'd better tell you, Director, that we're going to be visited by two battlefleets within the next three hours. The Selidae and the Medanjians." Kllonit's eating-utensil fell with a clatter as a shriek exploded from him. His long body reared up. Half a dozen legs swept across the desk, knocking plates from it, as one claw jabbed frantically at a large red button. "Mayday! Mayday!" he bellowed. "All personnel to the shelters! Man the evacuation capsules! Check all power sources and emergency supplies; test air-regenerating machinery! Transfer all mail possible to the Outposts! Central, activate my Maximum Security Quarters! ni be down in a couple of -- as soon as I take care of those confidential files -- " In 'his wild darting about, he got ihimself wound around the desk so that his own forward legs scrabbled over his tailpart. He let loose a rattling series of oaths. "Great Oopulating Novae!" "Director," Central Computer said calmly, "I've already taken care of everything. Will you let me report the situation?" "Aaargh!" Klonit struggled to untangle himself; kicked haphazardly at the plates strewn on the floor. "Three hours, you say? Get someone or something up here to clean up this mess!" He snorted a couple of times and felt calmer. "All right. What's up?" "Well, Director, it didn't seem anything to ibother you about. A stasis-capsule arrived, bearing three live creatures in an unfamiliar kind of package. There was no addressee and no returnee, so I sent out routine queries to the two catalogued space societies in the sector of the capsule's origin. Those were the Selidae and the Medanjians. Neither was within fifty light-years of the origin, so it's probable there was some malfunction in the mailing. However, there's nobody else even reasonably close. But now both races have claimed the parcel." Klonit blinked, his chitinous eyelids, making an almost metallic sound. "They have? Uh, did you describe the parcel's contents?" "No more and no less than prescribed by regulations. Director. A package, arriving by Translocation, containing three bipeds, advanced enough to wear clothing and prepare their own meals from foods stocked in the package." K lonit scratched irritably at his chin. "Now, why in... Central, did you inform each that the other was also being queried?" "Of course. Regulations -- " "Idiot! Don't you know how they hate each other?" "I'm aware of that." "Well, for hydrogen's sake! Didn't you foresee what would happen? Of course they'd both claim it! Whichever one it doesn't belong to -- if it belongs to either -- will hope to steal some bit of new technology or learn about some new species the other's enslaved; don't you see? They both raise food animals, don't you know?" IF "Answering in order: no, yes and yes." Klonit snarled. "Well, one more question. Exactly where did the capsule come from?" "Point of origin. Delta five nine two log one seven five four, Upsilon two six eight log three zero one, Zeta one zero four log nine seven two. Click." "Hey! Pm not through with you!" "Oh? You said one more question. I answered it and turned my voice-circuit off." "Well, damn it, this is a complex question, with several parts. I don't remember any Translocator Station in that spot! It's out beyond either the Selidae or the Medanjians!" "Correct. The race that maintained an outpost there has not been heard from for several thousaed of your lifetimes, and it is probably extinct. However -- " "However, plinch droppings!" Klonit roared. "If the Station's still operative, why haven't you sent a drone to investigate?" "I have. Director. The planet is desolate, very low in atmosphere and without artifacts other than the Station. That is inside a natural cave, well disguised, well protected and operated on automatics. There is no sign whether some other race has just discovered it and placed this parcel in it, or whether the parcel has been there for ages, with a planetquake or something just now jarring the machinery into operation. The data -- " "Stuff the data in your memory banks. Send a platform to bring me down to wherever you've put tbe parcel. I definitely want to take a look at it." T here were peep instruments, f course; but Klonit decided also to relax the Time Stasis briefly to observe the three bipeds in action. They'd never know the difference. He 'watched them for a few moments, then quickly restored the Stasis. "Central! You complete boob! Can't you see these are civilized beings? Look how the young female and male are holding hands! Doesn't that rouse any feeling in you? Are you proposing to turn them over to barbarians like the Selidae or the Medanjians? And this -- this thing you call a package. Can't you see it's a ship -- their ship? Primitive, but a ship; suitable for voyaging within a planetary system. Answer me!" "A ship, after all, is a package, Director." "Arrgh! Huh. Well, when are those battle fleets due? Which one first?" point eight six three hours from now." "All right. Ready me a surveycapsule. I want to see this "desolate" planet you describe. I'll be back within two hours. Meanwhile, I want you to send a resume of this whole mess to the Chief Of Council. Ask him if any members have fleets close enough to get here ahead of the Selidae." "I've already done that. Director. There should be a reply before you get back." T he abandoned station was pretty much as Klonit expected, marvelous only in that it had remained in working order so long. He eased his capsule out of the cave, sensors probing ahead for danger. The sandstorm, he wrote off; but, because it interfered with vision, moved clear of it. A quick look around told him this planet was too far out from its sun and unsuitable in other ways to be the home world of the three bipeds. Maybe the next one in. Yes. There it was, to one side of the sun; an aired, blue-scatter world of about the right temperature and mass. He listened to the jumble of static and communication on its radio bands. Highly industrialized. The Selidae and the Medan ians would certainly consider it a rich plum. Now, if he could get fairly close without being detected. He used the planet's single moon for cover, avoiding various artifacts, and took up a position. Radar would see him, hut he wasn't staying long, and probably they'd write him off as some bit of debris or a malfunction. From the ship he'd examined on Galkbar, he had grasped the technology of their television. He tuned about the channels, found himself watching a play-drama in which several of the bipeds -- male -- with masks over their faces walked into a wooden building and pointed hand-weapons at other bipeds inside. There was some talk and some facial miming, then bipeds behind partitions with grill-protected windows began scooping small silvery discs from drawers and from a big thick-metal box, into little fabric bags. One biped behind the partition stealthily drew from concealment a hand-weapon of his own. One of the masked bipeds saw him, and the latter's hand-weapon jumped a little, with a terrible bang and an eruption of smoke. The biped behind the partition collapsed, clutching at his chest. Now the masked bipeds grabbed the fabric bags and ran from the building. Just outside were some larger creatures, quadruped and rather splendid looking. Each of the masked bipeds seized a quadruped, heaved himself up and bestraddled it. Klonit gaped. Then the quadrupeds were galloping loudly down the street, raising clouds of dust, bearing the masked bipeds away. Other bipeds came running from wooden buildings, with hand weapons and with longfcr weapons which they steadied against their shoulders, to shoot after the fleeing mounted bipeds. Male bipeds were shouting, and females were screaming, and the weapons made an awful din, and there was an absolute bedlam of dashing about. Klonit found himself crouched, tense, his claws scrabbling at the deck. In sudden irritation, he darted a leg out to turn off the drama, then relaxed determinedly, to calm himself. Presently be growled and reached out for control-studs. A person could forget the time, watching such childish entertainment. L ess than two hours later, back on Galkbar, he emerged from IF the survey capsule and stared round him. "Central! Why am I confined here in my Maximum Security Quarters?" "Because, Director, the Selidae arrived ahead of time. Their fleet's in orbit right now." Klonit reared up and glared at the ceiling. "I should have known they'd lie about their arrival and sneak in sooner! Did you find any Member fleets?" "No, Director. And you'd better talk to Admiral Feyooch, who's still the Selidan commander. He's threatening to annihilate us. But first, there are three messages from our Chief Of Council." "Huh? Oh. Well, all right; let's have them!" "First. Utmost confidential. Klonit, the military, political and technological situation makes it imperative you avoid antagonizing the Selidae or the Medanjian at this time. Give them whatever they demand. If necessary, evacuate Galkhar and all the mail you can and let them have the place. Second -- Director, I 'believe this second messageas sent in a different context -- Utmost confidential. All Station Directors. Interstellar situation demands our outlying Centers carry on at this time with no hint of unusual activity. An air of complete ordinariness must be preserved. No unusual leaves are to be granted; nor is there to be any unusual efflux of mail. Third -- A sound like a gulp, amplified a hundred times, came from Klonit. "Hold on a minute! Did I hear you right?" "I imagine you did. Director. Wait until you hear the third. All Station Directors. There has been too much laxity lately in the matter of misdirected mail. Too many parcels have been yielded to the wrong claimants. Steps must be taken to halt this laxity. Mail is not to be yielded to claimants without thorough proof of ownership. Be firm. Signed, Chief of Council." "Gaaak!" Klonit got seven or eight legs under the edge of his desk, preparatory to overturning it. Central said, "It may be better if your office is not mussed up. Director. I can't stall off Feyooch much longer." "Feyooch! Tell him to -- uh, no; I guess not. Better put him on before he atomizes us!" A viewscreen crackled and glowed to life. The picture showed a huge, thick-mandibled arthropod. The pincers, which were awesome enough in themselves, even to Klonit, had energy-weapons riveted to them. Klonit said weakly, "Fey-Feyooch?" First one, then the other, of the buttonlike eyes cocked at him. "Klonit? Of course it's me! Why do you ask? Who else would it be? What are you implying? Have you heard something?" "No, no. Admiral! It's just that, uh, it's been four years. I -- I'm glad to see you looking so well." "Humph. Klonit, It's a good thing you're back from whatever fool's errand you were on. I was about to come down and get that parcel of mine. Send it up here at Ill once, and we'll say no more about your illegal and highly impudent possession of it." "Uh... Klonit tried not to squirm. "Er, as a matter of fact. Admiral, it isn't, uh, here." Noting the signs of rage, he lied on hurriedly. "There, uh, seemed to be, er, some sort of stasis-inerter field around it that we aren't familiar with. The best we could dv was to get it to an outpost." Feyooch fixed him with an uncertain glance. "Stasis-inerter field? Oh. Uh, that. Yes, I suppose your miserable technology would find it hard to, uh, cope with. Just give me the location, then, and I'll..." Klonit, his eyes darting about the background of the picture, which seemed to be full of weapons-controls, said, "It's, er," and rattled off the co-ordinates of an unoccupied outpost. If he could just get rid of the Selidae before the Medanjians got here..." But it wasn't going to work. Feyoodh stared at him beadily. "Klonit, you're a miserably incompetent liar. Send that parcel up right now, and no more nonsense! You don't want to be slagged, Klonit, now do you?" "No, no. Admiral, certainly not! I swear there's nothing I want more than to see this parcel delivered to its rightful owner! I mean -- uh -- " He went silent, mouthparts working, as a second screen lit up. "Central! What -- " "Admiral Vinitassin, Director. He begs you to talk to him at once, so he won't have to launch his missiles." T he Medanjian looked like S rosy, soft-shelled egg with a firmge of arms around the top and four short legs at the bottom. The head w'as a mere excresence. But the eyes were clear and intelligent -- round and innocently blue -- and the rose bud mouth smiled beatifioally. "Oh, there you are, Klonit. I'ni so happy your computer was ab' to find you. And it's delightful to see you looking so well; I swear Tve never seen your scales shinier. I observe that you have a deplorable .infestation of vermin around your planet. I'd be delighted to eradicate it for you, but I fear it would be impossible without crisping the planet as well. Oh; and if you're expecting anyone via nornial space, warn them, will you? I have the area rather thickly mined." A sound like a rusty hacksaw ripping tin cans came from Feyooch. "Klonit, you tell that hors-d'oeuvre the smallest of my landingboats could sweep all his mines out of the way and wipe out his fleet at the same time! And I warn you again -- " Vinitassin broke in sweetly, "What debasements you permit yourself to endure, Klonit! Why don't you let one of your janitors handle such interviews? Meanwhile, I don't want to be rude, but I really must have that lost parcel of mine. A trifling thing -- not nearly worth your attention, really -- but you know how Governments are, and mine is no exception. So if you'll just tell me, privately, a spot clear of all this mildew, where you can warp it, I'll go and -- " "Klonit!" Feyooch shrieked, "If you give him that parcel. I'll --  Klonit swelled up to bellow but instead, thinking of the massed hostile weaponry around Galkbar at the moment, produced instead a thin squeal. "'Uh, gentlemen... I wonder if you'd excuse me for just the shortest moment? Urgent Special Delivery coming in. I'll be right -- " He let out a long sigh of relief as Central blanked out both screens. "Thanks! If I can just iget a minute to think." He ran around the edges of the room, his ibody almost forming a square. "Damn it... Send another message to all Members -- " "I'm sending resumes every minute, Director. There are no Member fleets within several hours. Anyway, we couldn't survive a battle nearby, you know." K lonit collapsed in a groaning heap. "I know, I know! What's Feyooch doing?" "He's forming a spearhead to come down. He says he'll wait ten minutes. Not one second more." "Oh! Oh! And Vinitassin?" "He seems to be leaking to us a part of his orders to his fleet. It involves battle tactics. Apparently, Director, he's given up hope of getting the parcel, if you don't warp it out to him. It seems he intends just to fire all his missiles in and vaporize Galkbar, the Selidan fleet and everything. Director, you're simply temporizing, you know." "Damn it! Of course I'm temporizing! I've got to -- you got us into this! Start racking your circuits, too! How much time -- God; less than seven minutes! Look, send a message to Vinitassin. Give him the co-ordinates of that empty outpost and say we'U warp his parcel there. Apologize that I'm not able to tell him so myself just now. And tell Feyooch that, uh, his parcel will be coming up through the atmosphere on gravs in a few minutes. Say I'm sorry I'm too busy to talk to him. Say I was wrong about the parcel being somewhere else; I had it confused with a different one. And dont get the two messages mixed up!" "I have that much sense, Director. If I may ask -- " "Send the messages!" "I have. I'm not confined to one set of circuits, you know. If I may ask. Director, how many minutes do you hope to gain by this temporizing? I really can't understand the sense of prolonging things, since we're going to perish in a few minutes anyway. I should think -- " Klonit lifted his forebody and shrieked, "You'ire damned right you should thinki In fact, I order you to think! You created this problem! Solve it! You're always bragging about how many circuits you have!" He ran out of breath and slumped to the floor. It wasn't any use, he knew, shoulthig at Central. The Computer didn't care; and it couldn't work miracles, anyway. He wondered if he ought to inform his personnel of their imminent doom. No, there wasn't time to evacuate them, so it was probably best to leave IF them in ignorance. Let die end come to them quickly and mercifully. M inutes dragged by while his mind circled uselessly. Finally he couldn't stand the silence. "Central!" "Yes, Director?" "What's happening?" "Oh, you wish interim reports? I'm sorry, I didn't realize. Both fleets are waiting. I'll have Feyooch's parcel ready in a few minutes." "You'll what?" "I'll have his parcel ready. Director. You ordered me to solve the problem. Oh, I apologize; I should have kept up a commentary. But I was devoting all my circuits... I'm giving him three robots." Klonit stared at the wall grill from which Central's voice came. "Robots? No. You didn't say robots, did you? My ears... "Certainly, Director. You recall those biped robots we received, but didn't ever unpack 'because you said the body shape wasn't practical? I've added a few touches to make them more convincing. I've put clothes on them, and given them a sort of food supply, in the form of energy units. Well, after all, Director, I only described the three creatures as bipeds. And I'm putting them in a standard package. There. It's finished. I'll send it up to Feyooch now. Shall I send the three real creatures to Vinitassin at the same time?" "Huh?" "I asked, sihall I send the three living bipeds and their ship to Vinitassin now too?" Klonit shook. Carefully, he said, "Send nothing for a minute. Just hold everything. One minute. Right?" "As you say. Director. Mark." Klonit let his body swell up with air, and for a good part of the minute, he simply screamed. When he ran out of breath, he gulped in more and went on screaming. He glanced at the wall timepiece, saw he had ten seconds left and screamed again. Then he lay limp, gasping. He felt much, much better. When he could talk again, he said calmly, his voice only a little unsteady, "Trust a computer to find the solution to a problem, then notknow how to apply it! No, no, NO! We're not going to give anyone those three bipeds! Do you understand? Do you understand?" T here was a pause. Then Central said calmly, "I think I do. Director. You want me to prepare yet another parcel with three more robots. I'm starting it. The same crew of blens and toolbots can finish it very quickly. Then, we'll give one to each of those two fleets out there, and well (be left over with tne original parcel, which caused all the trouble in the first place. But that's your decision. You do not wish to take the opportunity to be rid of it!" Klonit hissed, "No, I don't!" "As you say. Director. Shall I go ahead and send the first trio of robots to Feyooch?" "No. Send them to Vinitassin. And don't make anodier move; don't even think about my ordering it. Do you hear?" There was a dead silence. Then, weakly, "Send the first batch to Vinitassin, Director?" "Yes! Now! Move!" Central achieved a very lifelike sigh. "It's gone. And the second parcel's finished. I don't suppose you would let me change -- " "NO! Change nothing! Wait one minute, then start grawing the second fake parcel up to Feyooch!" "Yes, Director." More minutes went by in silence. Finally, Klonit demanded, "Well?" "Vinitassin has taken possession of his parcel. The other one is still grawing up; but Feyooch is closing in on it, and it's too late to withdraw it now. Would you tell me. Director, why you made me switch parcels like this?" Klonit sighed patiently. "It isn't a matter of switching them. Central. It's this way: the first was finished several minutes ahead of the second -- right?" "Yes, Director." "Right. Now, if Feyooch got the first parcel and tried to accelerate away, preparatory to going into Translocator Drive, Vinitassin would try to stop him; do you see? There'd be a battle, and we'd get clobbered with stray missiles. But with Vinitassin getting a parcel first -- and thinking it's the only one -- hell leave immediately, having the outer position, and leave the way open for Feyooch. Probably, he'll even gather up most of his mines. Uh, has he started yet?" "No, Director. But his fleet is gathering into a tight formation." Klonit chuckled. "Well, he won't delay long. I don't want to belittle computer thinking. Central; but you see the difference, don't you, in your way of thinking and mine?" "Well, Director, yes and no." Klonit waited. As Central didn't continue, he gradually grevv nervous. "Well, is someting wrong?" "I'm afraid so. Director. You refused to let me explain. May I do so now?" "Explain what? Of course!" CC'Thank you. You see, I tried A to make the first three robots more convincing for Feyooch by engraving some manufacturer's legend on them, in Medanjian script, rather than his own. And by the time you ordered me not to change my plan. I'd already had the todbots started engraving Selidan script on the other three, for Vinitassin. My idea was that each would think he'd captured some experimental robot of the enemy's and rush off home with it. But when you switched them..." Klonit crouched for a minute, his legs half bent, then slowly sank to the floor. "Go on... Tell me... No. Don't say any more for a while." He let his head sag to the floor. A low moan escaped him. "And now -- and now -- neither one of them will be deceived. Is that what you think?" "It seems probable. Director, since each has three robots with markings on them in his own language." Klonit crawled cringingly into a IF corner. "Oh. Why didn't I... Central, why didn't you insist... Oh. Do you think there'll be time for a last message to my family and friends?" "I think so, Director. There are no missiles coming yet." Klonit let out a long, groaning sigh. "Very well, Central. You may record this: I, Klonit... No. I'm too ashamed. I can't -- can't speak to them. Just tell them -- tell that that, at the last, Klonit was humble and died without excessive bodily exudations. Will you do that much for me? Even if it's -- it's not true?" "ril have the message ready to send, Director." Klonit lay waiting, eyes squeezed shut. He squirmed himself into as tight a knot as he could, in one corner. Presently there was a mild jar. He quivered. "Was -- was that the first missile. Central?" "No, Director. It was just a batch of routine mail I sent off." Klonit opened one eye indiignantly. "Routine mail! Here I am about to die like a worm -- I mean, all of us, all the live personnel and you, though I don't suppose you care a foozlunk -- and you send routine mail! Haven't you any sensitivity at all?" Central seemed to hesitate. Then, "I didn't want to rouse false hopes. Director. But maybe I'd better tell you that both fleets seem to be getting ready to leave and that no missiles have been launched yet." Klonit scrambled up. "No missiles? Leaving? What... How -- " Central said, "Just a moment. Director. Yes! There goes Vinitassin. He seems to be ignoring the Selidan fleet. And now, there goes Feyooch! They're vanishing,. Director! They're both under maximum acceleration! I think -- I mean, do I have your jermission. Director, to let the personnel out of the shelters?" L ater, Central was quite humble about the whole thing. "I hesitate to advance my theories. Director, in view of the demonstration we've just had of the superiority of proteinbrain instincts to computer thinking, but on the basis of data available to me, this seems probable: Feyooch's race and Vinitassin's, as well, are hotbeds of intrigue and undercover politics. When Feyooch saw those unfamiliar robots with engraving on them in his own language, he immediately feared treachery at home. Why hadn't he been informed about them, he must have speculated. Who of his race was carrying on clandestine experiments, without his knowledge? Were his superiors shunting him aside? So, after cautiously examining the robots to make sure they weren't booby-trapped, he took his fleet home as fast as he could, ready to fight. And likewise for Vinitassin. Thei'e's little doubt it worked out much better than my own clumsy plan. I feel I owe you the most abject apologies. Director, for questioning your judgment." Klonit's face-parts felt a little overwarm. "Uh, not at all, Badh of us has his place. I'll trust you to send a discreet final report to the Chief Of Council. Meaiywhile, you'd better rig me uip aikther survey capsuHe; one with a good big stasisi field. I think I'll take those three bipeds in their ship back where they came from. Don't report that yet; we'll slip it in quietly, later. No use stirring up a big fuss, eh?" IV K lonit hovered just outside the cave on Mars, pondering. He could show himself to the three bipeds right here, now, if he chose. He'd learned enough of their language to communicate easily. Or, he could take them on to Earth with him and save them the slow trip! they'd have to make otherwise. Finally, thou, he decided he'd just leave them here, in their ship, snuggled in the cave. Let them have thedr moment of triumph before they had to learn the hard facts of galactic life. He approached Barth openly this time, so their radar would be sure of him. When excited babble on the radio told him they'd spotted his capsule, he cleared his throat and began the transmission: "People of Earth. I come in friendship. I am not a representative of any of the interstellar empires or alliances; I am merely ap employee of a comparatively unimportant joint service. There are dangers... He let his voice roll on, rather proud of the way he was handling this new language. He sighed. "Tliere is much knowledge I could give you, but I am not authorizied to do so. Really, I'm overstepping my own functions by making this first contact at all. Please excuse me now. Perhaps at some time in the future I shall have the pleasure and privilege of visiting your planet. Your sun's a little coolish, but if you could prepare a large vat of boiling mud... " He realized he was degenerating into banalities. "Uh, good-bye for now." J ason Clock sipped carefully at his second glass of wine. Mustn't let himself get mellow. He turned toward the controls. "That sandstorm ought to be over by now. We'll slip out and have a peep, eh?" He lifted the ship and backed out. "External viewers. Lieutenant." "Yes, sir." David Lobell flipped switches enthusiastically, and viewscreens came on. "All clear, sir." "Righto." Clock swivelled his periscopic-viewer, looking for a good level place to set down, where the sun would be at the right angle for pictures. Sarah Tolberg said tremulously, "Be careful. Colonel." Clock gave her a brave smile. "Nothing out there. Major. Not even an ant. Only danger's that something might go wrong with the suit or the lock; or that a meteorite could hit me. Pretty small chance of that." David was looking wistfully at the viewscreens. "It does look awfully dead, sir. Are you sure we won't find any artifacts? Are you sure we're... well, alone? In the solar system at least? And hopelessly isolated from the stars?" X IF IF  Novelette Illustrated by Morrow They were the first to travel faster than light... and the first to know its deadly peril! I T he klaxon cleared its plastic throat and began to whoop. Alternate yellow and reds pulsed on the consoles wrapped like bracelets around the wrists of the captain and the navigator. The huge auxiliary screens spaced on the bulkheads of the bridge also flashed red and yellow. Captain Grettir, catapulted from his reverie, and from his chair, sitood up. The letters and numerals #G-DZ-R hung burning on a sector of each screen and spurted up from the wrist-console, spread out ibefore his eyes, then disappeared, only to rise from the wristconsole again and magnify themselves and thin into nothing. Over and over again. #G-DZ-R. The code letters indicating that the alarm originated from the corridor leading to the engine room. He turned his wrist and raised his arm to place the lower half of the console at the correct viewing and speaking distance. "#-G-DZ-R, report!" The flaming, expanding, levitating letters died out, and the long highcheekboned face of MacOool, chief engineer, appeared as a tiny image j On the sector of the console. It was 'duplicated on the bridge bulkhead screens. It rose and grew larger, shooting towards Grettir, then winking out to be followed by a second ballooning face. Also on the wrist-console's screen, behind MacCool, were Comas, a petty officer, and Grinker, a machinist's mate. Their faces did not float up because they were not in the central part of the screen. Behind them was a group of marines and an #-K cannon on a floating sled. "It's the Wellington woman," MacCool said. "She used a photer, lowpower setting, to knock out the two guards stationed at the engine-room port. Then she herded us -- me. Comas, Grinker -- out. She said sheVi shoot us if we resisted. And she welded the grille to the bulkhead so it can't be opened unless it's burned off." "I don't know why she's doing this. But she's reconnected the drive wires to a zander bridge so she can control the acceleration herself. We can't do a thing to stop her unless we go in after her." H e paused, swallowed and said, "I could send men outside and have them try to get through the engine room airlock or else cut through the hull to get her. While she was distracted by this, we could make a frontal attack down the corridor. But she says she'll shoot anybody that gets too close. We could lose some men. She means what she says." "If you cut a hole in the hull, she'd be out of air, dead in a minute," Grettir said. "She's in a spacesuit," MacCool replied. "That's why I didn't havei this area sealed off and gas flooded in." Grettir hoped his face was not betraying his shock. Hearing an exclamation from Wanig, seated near him, Grettir turned his head. He said, "How in hell did she get out of sick bay?" He realized at the same time that Wang could not answer that question. MacCool said, "I don't know, sir. Ask Doctor Wills." "Never mind that now!" Grettir stared at the sequence of values appearing on the navigator's auxiliary bulkhead-screen. The # of light speed had already climbed to #. It changed every # seconds. The # became #, then #, # and then #. And then #.I and #. Grettir forced himself to sit back down. If anything was going to happen, it would have done so by converted to pure energy. A nova, bright but very brief, would have gouted in the heavens. And the orbiting telescopes of Earth would see the flare in # lightyears. IF "What's the state of the emc clamp and acceleration-dissipaters?" Grettir said. "No strain -- yet," Wang said. "But the power drain... if it continues... # megakilowatts per # seconds, and we're just heginning." "I think," Grettir said slowly, "that we're going to find out what we intended to find out. But it isn't going to be under the carefully controlled conditions we had planned." T he Terran Space Navy experimental cruiser Sleipnir had left its base on Asgard, eighth planet of Altair (alpha Aquilae), # shipdays ago. It was under orders to make the first attempt of a manned ship to exceed the velocity of light. If its mission was successful, men could travel between Earth and the colonial planets in weeks instead of years. The entire galaxy might be opened to Earth. Within the past two weeks, the Sleipnir had made several tests at # times the velocity of light, the tests lasting up to two hours at a time. The Sleipnir was equipped with enormous motors and massive clamps, dissipaters and space-time structure expanders ( "hole-openers") required for near#ightspeeds and beyond. No ship in Terrestrial history had ever had such power or the means to handle such power. The drive itself -- the cubed amplification of energy produced by the controlled mixture of matter, antimatter and half-matter -- gave an energy that could eat its way through fhe iron core of a planet. But part of that energy had to be diverted to power the energy-mass conversion "clamp" that kept the ship from being transformed into energy itself. The "hole-opener" also required vast power. Tliis device -- officially the Space-Time Structure Expander, or Neutralizer -- "unbent" the local curvature of the universe and so furnished a "hole" through which the Sleipnir traveled. This hole nullified # per cent of the resistance the Sleipnir would normally have encountered. Thus the effects of speeds approaching and even exceeding lightspeed, would be modified, even if not entirely avoided. The Sleipnir should not contract along its length to zero nor attain infinite mass when it reached the speed of light. It contracted, and it swelled, yes, by only l#th what it should have. The ship would assume the shape of a disk -- but much more slowly than it would without its openers, clamps and dissipaters. Beyond the speed of light, who knew what would happen? It was the business of the Sleipnir to find out. But, Grettir thout, not under these conditions. Not wUly-nilly. # #Qir!" MacCool said, "Wellington O threatens to shoot anybody who comes near the engine room." He hesitated, then said, "Except you. She wants to speak to you. But she doesn't want to do it over the intercom. She insists that you come down and talk to her face to face." Grettir bit his lower lip and made a sucking sound. "Why me?" he said, but he knew why, and MacCool's expression showed that he also knew. "I'll he down in a minute. Now, isn't there any way we can connect a bypass, route a circuit around her or beyond her and get control of the drive again?" "No, sir!" "Then she's cut through the engine-room deck and gotten to the redundant circuits also?" MacCool said, "She's crazy, but she's clear-headed enough to take all precautions. She hasn't overlooked a thing." Grettir said, "Wang! What's the velocity now?" "# slpm, sir!" Grettir looked at the huge starscreen on the "forward" bulkhead of the bridge. Black except for a few glitters of white, blue, red, green, and the galaxy called XD-# that lay dead ahead. The galaxy had been the size of an orange, and it still was. He stared at the screen for perhaps a minute, then said, "Wang, am I seeing right? The red light from XD-# is shifting towards the blue, right?" "Right, sir!" "Then ,... why isn't XD-# getting bigger? We're overhauling it like a fox after a rabbit." Wang said, "I think it's getting closer, sir. But we're getting bigger." II G rettir rose from the chair. "Take over while I'm gone. Turn off the alarm; tdl the crew to continue their normal duties. If anything comes up while I'm in the engine area, notify me at once." The exec saluted. "Yes, sir!" sihp said huskily. Grettir strode off the bridge. He was aware that the officers and crewmen seated in the ring of chairs in the bridge were looking covertly at him. He stopped for a minute to light up a cigar. He was glad that his hands were not shaking, and he hoped that his expression was confident. Slowly, repressing the impulse to run, he continued across the bridge and into the jump-shaft. He stepped off backward into the shaft and nonchalantly blew out smoke while he sank out of sight of the men in the bridge. He braced himself against the quick drop and then the thrusting deceleration. He had set the controls for Dock #; the doors slid open; he walked into a corridor where a g-car and operator waited for him. Grettir climbed in, sat down and told the crewman where to drive to. Two minutes later, he was with MacCool. The chief engineer pointed down the corridor. Near its end on the floor, were two still unconscious Marines. The door to the engine room was open. The secondary door, the grille, was shut. The lights within the engine room had been turned off. Something white on the other side of the grille moved. It was Donna Wellington's face, visible through the helmet. "We can't keep this acceleration up," Grettir said. "We're already going far faster than even unmanned experimental ships have been allowed to go. There are all sorts of IF theories about what might happen to a ship at these speeds, all bad." "We've disproved several by now," MacCool said. He spoke evenly, but his forehead was sweaty and shadows hung under his eyes. MacCool continued, "I'm glad you got here, sir. She just threatened to cut the emc damp wires if you didn't show up within the next two minutes." He gestured with both hands to indicate a huge and expanding ball f light. "I'll talk to her," Grettir said. "Although I can't imagine what she wants." MacCool looked dubious. Grettir wanted to ask him what the hell he was thinking but thought better of it. He said, "Keep your men at this post. Don't even look as if you're coming after me." "And what do we do, sir, if she shoots you?" Grettir winced. "Use the cannon. And never mind hesitating if I happen to ibe in the way. Blast her! But make sure you use a ibeam short enough to get her but not long enough to touch the engines." "May I ask why we don't do that before you put your life in danger?" MacCool said. Grettir hesitated, then said, "My main responsibility is to the ship and its crew. But this woman is very sick; she doesn't realize the implications of her actions. Not fully anyway. I want to talk her out of this, if I can." H e unhooked the communicator from his belt and walked down the corridor toward the grille and the darkness behind it and the whiteness that moved. His back prickled. The men were watching him intently. God knew what they were saying, or at least thinking, about him. The whole crew had been amused for some time by Donnia Wellington's passion for him and his inability to cope with her. They had said she was mad about him, not realizing that she really was mad. They had laughed. But they were not laughing now. Even so, knowing that she was truly insane, some of them must be blaming him for this danger. Undoubtedly, they were thinking that if he had handled her differently, they would not now be so cfose to death. He stopped just one step short of the grille. Now he could see Wellington's face, a checkerboard of blacks and whites. He waited for her to speak first. A full minute passed, then she said, "Robert!" The voice, normally low-pdtched and pleasant, was now thin and strained. "Not Robert. Eric," he said into the communicator. "Captain Eric Grettir, Mrs. Wellington." There was a silence. She moved closer to the grille. Light struck one eye, which gleamed bluely. "Why do you hate me so, Robert?" she said plaintively. "You used to love me. What did I do to make you turn against me?" "I am not your husband," Grettir said. "Look at me. Can't you see that I am not Robert Wellington? I am Captain Grettir of the. Sleipnir, You must see who I really am, Mrs. Wellington. It is very imiportant." "You don't love me!" she screamed. "You are trying to get rid of me by pretending you're another man! But it won't work! I'd know you anywhere, you beast! You beast! I hate you, Robert!" Involuntarily, Grettir stepped back under the intensity of her anger. He saw her hand come up from the shadows and the flash of light on a handgun. It was too late then; she fired; a beam of whiteness dazzled him. Light was followed by darkness. Ahead, or above, there was a disk of grayness in the black. Grettir traveled slowly and spasmodically towards it, as if he had been swallowed by a whale but was being ejected tovwds the open mouth, the muscles of the Leviathan's throat working him outwards. Far behind him, deep in the bowels of the whale, Donna Wellington spoke. "Robert?" "Eric!" he shouted. "I'm EricT T he Sleipnir, barely on its way out from Asgard, dawdling at # kilometers per second, had picked up the Mayday call. It came from a spaceship midway between the #th and #th planet of Altair. Although Grettir could have ignored the call without reprimand from his superiors, he altered course, and he found a ship wrecked by a meteorite. Inside the hull was half the body of a man. And a woman in deep shock. Pvobert and Donna Wellington were second-generation Asgairdiaios, Ph.D.'s in biotatology, holding master's papers in astrogation. They had been searching for specimens of "space plankton" and "space hydras," forms of life born in the regions between Altair's outer planets. The crash, the death of her husband and the shattering sense of isolation, dissociation and hopelessness during the eighty-four hours before rescue had twist Mrs. Wellington. Perhaps twisted was the wrong word. Fragmented was a better description. From the beginning of what at first seemed recovery, she had taken a superficial resemblance of Grettir to her husband for an identity. Grettir had been gentle and kind with her at the beginning and had made frequent visits to sick bay. Later, advised by Doctor Wills, he had been severe with her. And so the unforseen result. Donna Wellington screamed behind him and, suddenly, the twilight circle ahead became bright, and he was free. He opened his eyes to see faces over him. Doctor Wills and MacCool. He was in sick bay. MacCool smiled and said, "For a moment, we thought..." "What happened?" Grettir said. Then, "I know what she did. I mean -- " "She fired full power at you," MacCool said. "But the bans of the grille absorbed most of the energy. You got just enough to crisp the skin off your face and to knock you out. Good thiag you closed your eyes in time." IF Grettir sat up. He felt his face; it was covered with a greasy ointmenit, pain-deadenmg and skingrowing resec, "I got a hell of a (headache." Doctor Wills said, "It'll be gone in a minute." "What's the situation?" Grettir said. "How'd you get me away from her?"MacCool said, "I had to do it, Captain. Otherwise, she'd have taken another shot at you. The cannon blasted what was left of the grille. Mrs. Wellington -- " "She's dead?" "Yes. But the cannon didn't get her. Strange. She took her suit off, stripped to the skin. Then she went out through the airlock in the engine room. Naked, as if she meant to be the bride of Death. We almost got caught in the outrush of air, since she fixed the controls so that the inner port remained open. It was dose, but we got the port shut in time." Grettir said, "I... never mind. Any damage to the engine room?" "No. And the wires are reconnected for normal operation. Only -- " "Only what?" MacCool's face was so long he looked like a frightened bloodhound. "Just before I reconnected the wires, a funny... peculiar... thing happeni. The whole ship, and everything inside the ship, went through a sort of distortion. Wavy, as if we'd all become wax and were dripping. Or flags flapping in a wind. The bridge reports that the fore of the ship seemed to expand like a balloon, then became ripply, and the entire effect passed through the ship. We all got nauseated while the waviness lasted." There was silence, but their expressiions indicated that there was more to be said. "Well?" MacCool and Wills looked at each other. MacCool swallowed and said, "Captain, we don't know where in hell we are!" Ill O n the bridge, Grettir examined wcirHb kis. Space everywhere was filled wiith a light as gray and as dull as that of a false dawn on Earth. In the gray igjow, at a distance as yet undetermined, were a number of spheres. They looked small, but if they were as large as the one immediately aft of the Sleipnir, they were huge. The sphere behind them, estimated to ibe at a distance of fifty kilometers, was about the size of Earth's moon, relative to the ship. Its surface was as smooth and as igray as a ball of lead. Dari spoke a hinary code into her wrist-console, and the sphere on the starscreen seemed to shoot towards them. It filled the screen until Dari changed the line-of-sight. They were looking at about # degrees of arc of the limb of the sphere. "There it is!" Dari said. A small object floated around the edge of the sphere and seemed to shoot towards them. She magnified it, and it became a small gray sphere. IF Special Christmas Gift Rates A # Issues  # B # Issues # ITjSCEAfCE C # Issues  # D # Issues # Add #)# for each (# Issues) for foreign subscription  F # lssnsifEaiii#-#Sln#II Add #)# for each (# Issues) for foreign subscription Enclosed please find  in payment for subscriptions to be sent in accordance with the offers indicated in each case below: D  enclose additional gifts, on separate sheet No Postage Stamp Necessary if Mailed in the U. S. Give the gift you would like to receive Permit No. # Sec. #, P.L.R. New Yorlc,N.Y. No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States "It orbits round tihe big one," sbe said. Dari paused, then said, "We -- the ship -- came out of that small sphere. Out of iit. Through its skin." "You mean we had been inside it?" Grettir said. "And now we're outside it?" "Yes, sir! Exactly!" She gasped and said, "Oh, oh -- sir!" Around the large sphere, slightly above the plane of the orbit of the small sphere but within its sweep in lan inner orbit, sped another object. At least fifty times as large as the small globe, it caught up with the globe, and the two disappeared together around the curve of the primary. "Wellington's body!" Grettir said. He turned away from the screen, took one step, and turned around again. "It's not right! She should be trailing along behind us or at least parallel with us, maybe shooting off at an angle but still moving in our direction. "But she's been grabbed by the big sphere! She's in orbit! And her size; Gargantuan! It doesn't make sense! It shouldn't be!" "Nothing should," Wang said. 'Take us back," Grettir said. "Establish an orbit around the primary, on the same plane as the secondary but further out, approximately a kilometer and a half from it." Dari's expression said, "Then what?" Grettir wondered if she had the same thought as he. The faces of the others on the bridge were doubtful. The fear was covered but leaking out. He could smell the rotten bubbles. Had they guessed, too? "Whiat attraction does the primary have on the ship?" he said to Wang. "No detectable influience whatsoever, sir. The Sleipnir seems to have a neutral charge, neither positive nor negative in relation to any of the spheres. Or to Wellington's... body." Grettir was slightly relieved. His thoughts had been so wild that he had not been able to consider them as anything but hysterical fantasies. But Wangi's answer showed that Grettir's idea was also his. Instead of replying in tenns of gravitational force, he had talked as if the ship were a subatomic particle. But if the ship was not aiffected by the primary, why had Wellington's corpse been attracted by the primary? "Our velocity in relation to the primairy?" Grettir said. "We cut off the acceleration as soon as the wires were reconnected." Wang said. This was immediately after we came out into this... this space. We didn't apply any retrodrive. Our velocity, as indicated by power consumption, is ten megaparsecs per minute. That is," he added after a pause, "what the instruments show. But our radar, which should be totally ineffective at this velocity, indicates # kilometers per minute, relative to the big sphere." Wang leaned back in his chair as if he expected Grettir to explode into incredulity. Grettir lit up another cigar. This time, his hands shook. He blew out a big puff of smoke amd said, "Obviously, we're opeiraifemig under doffenenit quote laws unquote out here Wang sighed softly. "So you think so, too, Oaptain? Yes, dibrent laws. Which means that every time we make a move tihrough this space, we can't know what the result will be. May I ask what you plan to do, sir?" B y this question, which Wang would never have dared to voice before, though he had doubtless often thought it, Grettir knew that the navigator shared his anxiety. Beneath that apparently easy manner and soft voice was a pain just beneath the navel. The umbilical had been ripped out; Wang was hurting and bleeding inside. Was he, too, beglimmg to float away in a gray void? Bereft as no man had even been bereft? It takes a special type of man or woman to lose himself from Earth or his native planet, to go out among the stiars so far that the natal sun is not even a faint igjimmer. It also takes special conditioning for the special type of m'an. He has to believe, in the deepest part of his unconscious, that his ship is a piece of Mother Earth. He has to believe; otherwise, he goes to pieces. can be done. Hundreds do it. But nothing had prepared even these farfarers for absolute divorce from the universe itself. Grettir ached with the dread of the void. The void was coiling up inside him, a gray serpent, a slither of nothingness. Coiling. And what would happen when it uncoiled? And what would happen to the crew when they were informed -- as they must ibe -- of the utter dissociation? There was only one way to keep their minds from slipping their moorings. They must believe that they could get back into the world. Just as he must believe it. "I'll play it by ear," Grettir said. "What? Sir?" "Play it by ear!" Grettir said more harshly than he had intended. "I was merdy answering your question. Have you forgotten you asked me what I meant to do?" "Oh, no, sir," Wang said. "I was just thinking..." "Keep your mind on the job," Grettir said. He tdd Iarl he would take over. He spoke the code to rising-falling sound went into every room of the Sleipnir, and all screens flashed a black-and-green checked pattern. Then the warnings, visual and audible, died out, and Ihe captain spoke. He talked for two minutes. The bridgemen looked as if the lights had been turned off in their brains. It was almost impossible to grasp the concept of their being outside their universe. As difficult was thinking of their unimaginably vast native cosmos as only an "electron" orbiting around the nucleus of an "atom." If what the captain said was true (how could it be?), the ship was in the space between the superatoms of a supermoleoule of a superuniverse. Even though they knew that the Sleipnir had ballooned under the IF effect of nearly # times the speed of light, they could not wrap the fingers of their minds around the concept. It turned to smoke and drifted away. I t took ten minutes, ship's time, to turn and to complete the maneuvers which placed the Sleipnir in an orbit parallel to but outside the secondary, or, as Grettir thought of it, "our universe." He gave his chair back to Dad and paced back and forth across the bridge while he watched the starscreen. If they were experiencing the sundering, the cutting-off, they were keeping it under control. They had been told by their captain that they were going back in, not that they would make a try at re-entry. They had been through much with him, and he had never failed them. With this trust, they could endure the agony of dissolution. As the Sleipnir established itself parallel to the secondary, Wellington's body curved around the primary again and began to pass the small sphere and ship. The arms of the mountainous body were extended stiffly to both sides, and her legs spread out. In the gray light, her skin was bluish-black from the ruptured veins and arteries bdow the skin. Her red hair, coiled in a Psyche knot, looked black. Her eyes, each of which was larger than the bridge of the Sleipnir, were open, bulging clots of black blood. Her lips were pulled back in a grimace, the teeth like a soot-streaked portcullis. Cartwheeling, she passed the sphere and the ship. Wang reported that there were three "shadows" on the surface of the primary. Those were keeping pace with the secondary, the corpse and the ship. Magnified on the bridge-bulkhead screen, each "shadow" was the silhouette of one of the three orbiting bodies. The shadows were only about one shade darker than the surface and were caused iby a shifting pucker in the primary skin. The surface protruded along the edges of the shadows and formed a shallow depression within the edges. If the shadow of the Sleipnir was a true indication of the shape of the vessel, the Sleipnir had lost its needle ape and was a spindle, fat at both ends and narrow-waisted. When Wellington's corpse passed by the small sphere and the ship, her sibadow or "print" reversed itself in shape. Where the head of the shadow should have been, the feet now were and vice versa. She disappeared around the curve of the primary and, on returning on the other side, her shadow had again become a "true" reflection. It .remained so until she passed the secondary, after which the shadow once more reversed itself. Grettir had been informed that there seemed to be absolutely no matter in the space outside the spheres. There was not one detectaible atom or particle. Moreover, despite the lack of 'any radiation, the temperature of the hull, and ten meters beyond the hull, was a fluctuating # plus-or-minus # F. IV T hree orbits later, Grettir knew that the ship had diminished greatly in size. Or else the small sphere had expanded. Or both changes occurred. Moreover, on the visual screen, the secondary had lost its spherical shape and become a fat disk during the first circling of the ship to establish its orbit. Grettir was puzzling over this and thinking of calling Van Voorden, the physicist chief, when Wellington's corpse came around the primary again. The body caught up with the other satellites, and for a moment the primary, secondary, and the Sleipnir were in a line, strung on an invisible cord. Suddenly, the secondary and the corpse jumped toward each other. They ceased their motion when within a quarter kilometer of each other. Tlie secondary regained its globular form as soon as it had attained its new orbit. Wellington's arms and legs, during this change in position, moved in as if she had come to life. Her arms folded themselves across her breasts, and her legs drew up so that her thighs were against her belly. Grettir called Van Voorden. The physicist said, "Out here," the cabin boy -- if we had one -- knows as much as I do about what's going on or what to expect. The data, such as they are, are too inadequate, too confusing. I can only suggest that there was an interchange of energy between Wellington and the secondary." "A quantum jump?" Grettir said. "If that's so, why didn't the ship experience a loss or gain?" Dari said, "Pardon, sir. But it did. There was a loss of # megakilowatts in # second. " Van Voorden said, "The Sleipnir may have decreased in relative size because of decrease in velocity. Or maybe velocity had nothing to do with it or only partially, anyway. Maybe the change in spatial interrelationships among bodies causes other changes. In shape, size, energy transfer and so forth. I don't know. Tell me, how big is the woman -- corpse -- relative to the ship now?" "The radar measurements say she's eighty-three times as large. She increased. Or we've decreased." Van Voor den's eyes grew even larger. Grettir thanked him and cut him off. He ordered the Sleipnir to be put in exactly the same orbit as the secondary but ten dekameters ahead of it. Van Voorden called back. "The jump happened when we were in line with the other three bodies. Maybe the Sleipnir's is some sort of geometrical catalyst under certain conditions. That's only an analogy, of course." Wang verbally fed the order into the computer-interfact, part of his wrist-console. The Sleipnir was soon racing ahead of the sphere. Radar reported that the ship and secondary were now approximately equal in size. The corpse, coming around the primary again, was still the same relative size as before. Grettir ordered the vessel turned around so that the nose would be IF facing the sphere. This accomplished, he had the velocity xeduoed. The retrodrive ibraked (them while the lateral thrusts readjusted forces to keep the ship in the same oihit. Since the primary had no attraction for the Sleipnir, the ship had to remain in orbit with a constant rebalancing of thrusts. The sphere, now ballooning, inched towards the ship. "Radar indicates we're doing # dekameters per second relative to the primary," Wang said. "Power drain indicates we're making # times the speed of light. That, by the way, is not proportionate to what we were making when we left our world." "More (bralking," Grettir said. "Cut it down to # dm." The sphere swelled, filled the screen, and Grettir involuntarily braced himself for the impact, even though he was so far from expecting one that he had not strapped himself into a chair. There had been none when the ship had broken through the "skin" of the universe. Grettir had been told of the distorting in the ship when it had left the universe and so was not entirely surprised. Nevertheless, he could not help being both frightened and bewildered when the front part of the bridge abruptly swelled and then rippled. Screen, bulkheads, deck and crew waved as if they were cloth in a strong wind. Grettir felt as if he were being folded into a thousand different angles ait the same time. T lien Wang cried out, and the others repeated his cry. Wang rose from his seat and put his hands out before him. Gretdr, standing behind and to one side of him, was frozen as he saw dozens of Iktle objects, firefly-size, burning brightly, slip through the starscreen and bulkhead and drift towards him. He came out of his paralysis in time to dodge one tiny whiteiy glowing ball. But another struck his forehead, causing him to yelp. A score of the bodies passed by him. Some were white; some blue; some green; one was topaz. They were at all levels, above his head, even with his waist, one almost touching the deck. He crouched down to let two pass over him, and as he did so, he saw Nagy, the communications officer, bent over and vomiting. The stuff sprayed out of his mouth and caught a little glow in-it and snuffed it out in a burst of smoke. Then the forepart of the bridge had reasserted its solidity and constancy of shape. There were no more burning objects coming tihrou. Grettir turned to sec the aift bulkheads of the hridge quivering in the wake of the wave. And they, too, became normal. Grettir shout the "override" code so that he could take control from Wang, who was screaming with pain. He directed the ship to change its course to an "upward vertical" direction. There was no "upward" sensation, because the artificial gHfield within the ship readjusted. Suddenly, the forward part of the bridge became distorted again, and the waves reached through the fabric of the ship and the crew. The starscreen, which had been showing nothing but the blackness of space, speckled by a few stars, now displayed the great igray sphere in one corner and the crepuscular light. Grettir, fighting the pain in his forehead and the oausea, gave another command. There was a delay of possibly thirty seconds, and then the Sleipnir began the turn that would take it back into a parallel orbit with the secondary. Grettir, realizing what was hapening shortly after being burned, had taken the Sleipnir back out of the universe. He put in a call for corpsmen and Doctor Wills and then helped Wang from his chair. There was an odor of burned flesh and hair in the bridge which the air-conditioning system had not as yet removed. Wang's face and hands were burned in five or six places, and part of his long coarse black hair on the righf side of his head was bumed. ' Three corpsmen and Wills ran into the bridge. Wills started to apply a pseudoprotein jelly on Grettir's forehead, but Grettir told him to take care of Wang first. Wills worked swiftly and then, after spreading the jelly over Wang's burns and placing a false-skin bandage over the bums, treated the captain. As soon as the jelly was placed on his forehead, Grettir felt the pain dissolve. "Third degree," Wills said. "It's lucky those things -- whatever they are -- weren't larger." Grettir picked up his cigar, which he had dropped on the deck when he had first seen the objects racing towards him. The cigar was still burning. Near it lay a coal, swiftly blackening. He picked it up gingerly. It felt warm but could be held without too much discomfort. Grettir extended his hand, palm up, so that the doctor could see the speck of black matter in it. It was even smaller than when k had floated into the bridge through the momentarily "opened" interstices of the molecules composing the hull and bulkheads. "This is a galaxy," he whispered. D oc Wills did not understand. "A galaxy of our universe," Grettir added. Doc Wills paled, and he gulped loudly. "You mean... ?" Gritter nodded. Wills said, "I hope... not our... Earth's... Galaxy!" "I doubt it," Grettir said. "We were onthe edge of the star fields farthest out, that is, the closest to the -- skin? -- of our universe. But if we had kept on going... " hence inhabited, planets, were in that little ball of fire, now cool and ings and an ummaginable number of animals had died when their world collided with Grettir's forehead. Wang, informed of the true cause of his bums, became ill again. Grettir ordered him to sick bay and replaced him with Gomez. Van Voorden entered the bridge. He said, "I suppose our main objective has to be our re-entry. But why couldn't IF we make an attempt to penetrate the primary, the nucleus? Do you realize what an astounding... ?" Grettir interrupted. "I realize. But our fuel supply is low, very low. If -- I mean, when we get back through the 'skin,' we'll have a long way to go before we can return to Base. Maybe too long. I don't dare exceed a certain speed during reentry (because of our size. It would be too dangerous... I don't want to wipe out any more galaxies. God knows the psychological problems we are going to have when the guilt really hits. Right now, we're numbed. No! We're not going to do any exploring!" '"But there may be no future investigations permitted!" Van Voorden said. "There's too much danger to the universe itself to allow any more research by ships like ours!" "Exactly," Grettir said. "I sympathize with your desire to do scientific research. But the safety of the ship and crew comes first. Besides, I think that if I were to order an exploration, I'd have mutiny on my hands. And I couldn't blame my men. Tell me. Van Voorden, don't you feel a sense of... dissociation?" Van Voorden nodded and said, is so much... " "So much to find out," Orettir said. "Agreed. But the authorities will have to determine if that is to be done." Grettir dismissed him. Van Voorden marched off with a straight back and an angry set to his shoulders and neck. But he did not give the impression of a powerful anger. He was, Grettir thought, secretly relieved at the captain's decision. Van Voorden had miade his protest for Science's sake. But as a human being, Van Voorden must want very much to get "home." V A t the end of the ordered maneuver, the Sleipnir was in the same orbit as the universe but twenty kilometers ahead and again pointed toward it. Since there was no attraction between ship and primary, the Sleipnir had to use power to maintain the orbit; a delicate readjustmdnt of lateral thrust was constantly required. Grettir ordered braking applied. The sphere expanded on the starscreen, and then there was only a gray surface displayed. To the viewers the surface did not seem to spin, but radar 'had determined that the globe completed a revolution on its polar axis once every # seconds. Grettir did not like to think of the implications of this. Van Voorden undoubtedly had received the report, but he had made no move to notify the captain. Perhaps, like Grettir, he believed that the fewer who thought about it, the better. The mockup screen showed, in silhouette form, the relative sizes of the approaching spheres and the ship. The basketball was the universe; the toothpick, the Sleipnir. Grettir hoped that this reduction would be enough to avoid running into any more galaxies. Immediately after the vessel penetrated the "skin," the Sleipnir would be again braked, thus further diminishing it. There should be plenty of distance between the skin and the edge of the closest star fields. "Here we go," Grettir said, watching the screen which indicated in meters the gap between ship and sphere. Again he involuntarily braced himself. There was a rumble, a groan. The deck slanted upwards, then rolled to port. Grettir was hurled to the deck, spun over and over and brought up with stunning impact against a bulkhead. He was in a daze for a moment, and by the time he had recovered, the ship had reasserted its proper attitude. Gomez bad placed the ship into "level" again. He had a habit of strapping himself into the navigator's chair although regulations did not require it unless the captain ordered it. Grettir asked for a report on any damage and, while waiting for it, called Van Voorden. The physicist was Weeding from a cut on his forehead. "Obviously," he said, "it requires a certain force to penetrate the outer covering or energy shield or whiaitever it is that encloses the universe. We didn't have it. So -- " "Presents quite a problem," Grettir said. "If we go fast enough to rip through, we're too large and may destroy entire galaxies. If we go too slow, we can't get through." He paused, then said, "I can think of only one method. But I'm ignorant of the consequences, which might be disastrous. Not for us but for the universe. I'm not sure I should even take such a chance." He was silent so long that Van Voorden could not restrain himself. "WeU?" "Do you think that if we could make a hole in the skin, the rupture might result in some sort o-f collapse or cosmic disturbance?" "You want to beam a hole in the skin?" Van Voorden said slowly. His skin was pale, but it had been that color before Grettir asked him the question. Grettir wondered if Van Voorden was beginning to crumble under the "dissociation." "Never mind," Grettir said. "I shouldn't have asked you. You can't know what effects would be any more than anyone else. I apologize. I must have been trying to make you share some of the blame if anything went wrong. Forget it." V an Voorden stared, and he was still looking blank when Grettir cut off his image. He paced back and forth, once stepping over a tiny black object on the deck and then grimacing when he realized that creatures. All cold and dead. And if he experimented further in trying to get back into the native cosmos, then what? A collapsing universe. But the Sleipnir had passed through the "skin" twice, and the rupture had not seemed to cause barm. The surface of the sphere was smooth and unbroken. It must be self-regulating and self-repairing. Grettir stopped pacing and said aloud, "We came through the skin IF without harm to it. So we're going to toy the beam!" Nobody answered him, but the look on eir faces was evidence of their relief. Fifteen minutes later, the Sleipnir was just ahead of the sphere and facing it. After an unvarying speed and distance from the sphere had been maintained for several minutes, laser beams measured the exact length between the tip of the cannon and the surface of the globe. The chief gunnery officer, Abdul White Eagle, set one of the fore cannons. Grettir delayed only a few seconds in giving the next order. He clenched his teeth so hard he almost hit the dgar in two, groaned slightly, then said, "Fire!" Dari transmitted the command. The beam shot out, touched the skin and vanished. The starscreen showed a black hole in the gray surface at the equator of the sphere. The hole moved away and then was gone around the curve of the sphere. Exactly # seconds later, the hole was in its original position. It was shrinking. By the time four rotations were completed, the hole had closed in on itself. Grettir sighed and wiped the sweat off his forehead. Dari reported that the hole would be big enough for the ship to get through by the second time it came around. After that, it would be too small. "We'll go through during the second rotation," Grettir said. "Set up the compigator for an automatic entry; tie the cannon in with the compigator. There shouldn't he any piroblem. If the hole shrinks too fast, we'll enlarge it with the cannon." He heard Daii say, "Operation begun, sir!" as Gomez spoke into his console. The white 'beam spurted out in a cone, flicked against the "shell" or "skin" and disappeared. A circle of blackness three times the diameter of the ship came into being and then moved to one side of the screen. Immediately, under the control of the compigator, the retrodrive of the Sleipnir went into action. The sphere loomed; a gray wall filled the starscreen. Then the edge of the hole came into view, and a blackness spread over the screen. "We're going to make it," Grettir thought. "The compigator can't make a mistake." He looked around him. The bridgemen were strapped to their chairs now. Most of the faces were set. they were well disciplined and brave. But if they felt as he did -- they must -- they were shoving back a scream far down in them. They could not endure this "'homesickness" much longer. And after they got through, were back in the womb, he would have to permit them a most unmilitary behavior. They would laugh, weep, shout whoop. And so would he. The nose of the Sleipnir passed through the hole. Now, if anything went wrong, the fore cannon could not be used. But it was impossible that... T he klaxon whooped. Dorl screamed, "Oh, my God! Something's wrong! The hole's shrinking too fast!" Grettir roared, "Double the speed! No! Halve it!" Increasing the forward speed meant a swelling in size of the Sleipnir but a contraction of the longitudinal axis and a lengthening of the lateral. The Sleipnir would get through the hole faster, but it would also narrow the gap between its hull and the edges of the hole. Halving the speed, on the other hand, though it would make the ship smaller in relation to the hole, would also make the distance to be traversed greater. This might mean that the edges would still hit the ship. Actually, Grettir did not know what order should he given or if any order would have an effect upon their chance to escape. He could only do what seemed best. The grayness spread out from the perimeter of the starscreen. There was a screech of severed plastic running through the ship, quivering the bulkheads and decks, a sudden push forward of the crew as they felt the inertia, then a release as the almost instantaneous readjustment of the internal g-field canceled the external effects. Everybody in the bridge yelled. Grettir forced himself to cut off his shout. He watched the starscreen. They were out in the gray again. The huge sphere shot across the screen. In the corner was the secondary and then a glimpse of a giant blueblack foot. More grayness. A whirl of other great spheres in the distance. The primary again. The secondary. Wellington's hand, like a malformed squid of the void. When Grettir saw the corpse again, he knew that the ship had been deflected away from the sphere and was heading towards the corpse. He did not, however, expect a collision. The orbital velocity of the dead woman was greater than that of the secondary or of the Sleipnir. Gritter, calling for a damage report, heard what he had expected. The nose of the ship had been sheared off. Bearing # crewman with it, it was now inside the "universe," heading toward a home it would never reach. The passageways leading to the cut-off part had been automatically sealed, of course, so that there was no danger of losing air. But the retrodrives had also been sliced off. The Sleipnir could drive forward but could not brake' itself unless it was first turned around to present its aft to the direction of motion. VI G rettir gave the command to stabilize the ship first, then to reverse it. MacCool replied from the engine room that neither maneuver was, at the moment, possible. The collision and the shearing had caused malfunctions in the control circuits. He did not know What the trouble was, but the electronic trouble-scanner was searching through the circuits. A moment later, he called back to say that the device was itself not operating properly and that the troubleshooting would have to be done by his men until the device had been repaired. MacCool was disturb. He could not account for the breakdown beIF itei telii W-.-'.".iiS-, cause, theoretically, there should have 'been none. Even the impact and loss of the fore should not have resulted in loss of circuit operation. Grettir told him to do what he could. Meanwhile, the ship was tumbling and was obviously catching up with the vast corpse. There had been another inexplainable interchange of energy, position and momentum, and the Sleipnir and Mrs. Wellington were going to collide. Grettir unstrapped himself and began walking back and forth across the bridge. Even though the ship was cartwheeling, the internal gfield neutralized the effect for the crew. The vessel seemed level and stable unless the starscreen was looked at. When Grettir watched the screen, he felt slightly queasy because he was, at times, standing upside down in relation to the corpse. Grettir asked for a computation of when the collision would take place and of what part of the body the Sleipnir would strike. It might make a difference whether it struck a soft or hard part. The difference would not result in damage to the ship, but it would affect the angle and velocity of the rebound path. If the circuits wre repaired before the convergence, or just after, Grettir would have to know what action to take. Wang replied that he had already asked the compigator for an estimate of the area of collision if conditions femained as they were. Even as he spoke, a coded card issued from a slot in the bulkhead. Wang read it, handed it to Grettir. Grettir said, "At any other time, I'd laugh. So we will return -- literally -- to the womb." The card had also indicated that, the nearer the ship got to Wellington, the slower was its velocity. Moreover, the relative size of the ihip, as reported by radar, was decreasing in direct proportion to its proximity to the body. Gomez said, "I think we've come under the influence of that... woman, as if she'd Income a planet and had captured a satellite. Us. She doesn't have any gravitational attraction or any charge in relation to us. But -- " "But there are other factors," Grettir said to her. "Maybe they are spatial relations, which, in this 'space, may be the equivalent of gravity." T he Sleipnir was now so close that the body entirely fUled the' starscreen when the ship was pointed towards it. First, the enormous head came into view. The blood-clotted and bulging eyes stared at them, the nose slid by like a Brobdingnagian guillotine; the mouth grinned at them as if it were to enjoy gulping them down. Then the nedc, a diorite column left exposed by the erosion of softer rock; the cleavage of the blackened Himalayan breasts; the naval, the eye of a hurricane. Then she went out of sight, and the secondary and primary and the gray-shrouded giants far off whiled across the screen. Grettir used the All-Stations to tell the nonbridge personnel what IF was happening. "As soon as MacCool locates the itrouble, we will be on our way out. We have plenty of power left, enough to blast our way out of a hundred corpses. Sit tight. Don't worry. It's just a matter of time." He spoke with a cheerfulness he did not feel, although he had not lied to them. Nor did he expect any reaction, positive or negative. They must be as numb as he. Their minds, their entire nervous systems, were boggling. Another card shot out from the bulkhead-slot, a corrected impact prediction. Because of the continuing decrease in size of the vessel, it would strike the corpse almost dead-center in the naval. A minute later, another card predicted impact near the coccyx. A third card revised that to collision with the top of the head. A fourth changed that to a strike on the lower part on the front of the right leg. Grettir called Van Voorden again. The physicist's face shot up from the surface of Grettir's wrist-console but was stationary on the auxiliary bulkhead-screen. This gave a larger view and s-howed Van Voorden looking over his wrist-console at a screen on his cabin-bulkhead. It offered the latest impact report in large burning letters. "Like the handwriting on the wall in the days of King Belshazzar," Van Voorden said. "And I am a Daniel come to judgment. So we're going to hit her leg, heh, Many, many tickle up her shin. Hee, hee!" Grettir stared uncomprehendingly at him, then cut him off. A few seconds later, he understood Van Voorden's pun. He did not wonder at the man's levity at a moment so grave. It was a means of relieving his deep anxiety and bewilderment. It might also mean that he was already cracking up, since it was out of character with him. But Grettir could do nothing for him at that moment. As the Sleipnir neared the corpse, it continued to shrink. However, the dwindling was not at a steady rate nor could the times of shrinkage be predicted. It operated in spurts of from two to thirty seconds duration at irregular intervals. And then, as the #th card issued from the slot, it became evident that, unless some new factor entered, the Sleipnir would spin into the gaping mouth, yjlile the head rotated "downward," the ship would pass through the great space between the lips. A nd so it was. On the starscreen, the lower lip, a massive ridge, wrinkled with mountains and pitted with valleys, appeared. Flecks of lipstick floated by, black-red Hawaiis. A tooth like a jagged skyscraper dropped out of sight. The Sleipnir settled slowly into the darkness. The walls shot away and upwards. The blackness outside knotted. Only a part of the gray "sky" was visible during that point of the cartwheel when the fore part of the starscreen was directed upwards. Then the opening became a thread of gray, a strand, and was gone. Strangely -- or was it so odd? -- the officers and crew lost their feeling of dissociation. Grettir's stomach expanded with relief; the dreadful fragmenting was gone. He now felt as if something had been attached, or reattached, to his naval. Rubb, the psychology officer, reported that he had taken a survey of one out of fifty of the crew, and each described similar sensations. Despite this, the personnel were free of only one anxiety and were far from being out of danger. The temperature had been slowly mounting ever since the ship had been spun off the secondary and had headed towards the corpse. The power system and air-conditioning had the temperature of the hull had gone upwards at a geometric progression, and the outer hull was now # K. There was no danger of it melting as yet; it could resist up to # K. The air-conditioning demanded more and more power, and after thirty minutes ship's time, Grettir had had to let the internal temperature rise to # F to ease the load. Grettir ordered everybody into spacesuits, which could keep the wearers at a comfortable temperature. Just as the order was carried out, MacCool reported that he had located the source of maTfunction. "The Wellington woman did it!" he shouted. "She sure took care of us! She inserted a monolith subparticle switch in the circuits; the switch had a timer which operated the switch after a certain time had elapsed. It was only coincidence (hat the circuits went blank right after we failed to get back into our world!" vn # # Qo she wanted to be certain, that we'd ibe wrecked if she was frustrated in her attempts in the engme room," Grettir said, "You'd better continue the search for other microswitches or sabotage devices." MacCool s face was long. "We're ready to operate now only... hell! We can't spare any power now because we need all we can get to keep the temperature down. I can spare enough to cancel the tumble. But that's all." "Forget it for now," Grettir said. He had contacted Van Voorden, who seemed to have recovered. He confirmed the captain's theory about the rise in temperature. It was the rapid contraction of the ship that was causing the emission of heat. "How is this contraction possible?" Grettir said. "Are the atoms of the ship, and of our bodies, coming closer together? If so, what happens when they come into contact with each other? "We've already passed that point of diminishment," Van Voorden said. "I'd say that our own atoms are shrinking also." "But that's not possible," Grettir replied. Then, "forget about that remark. What is possible? Whatever happens is possible." Grettir cut him off and strode back and forth and wished that he could smoke a cigar. He had intended to talk about what the SkipIF nir would find if it had managed to break back into its native universe. It seemed to Grettir that the universe would have changed so much that no one aboard the ship would recognize it. Every time the secondary -- the universe -- completed a revopassed. The Earth's sun may have become a lightless clot in space or even have disappeared altogether. Man, who might have survived on other planets, would no longer be homo sapiens. Moreover, when the Sleipnir attained a supercosmic mass on its way out of the universe, it may have disastrously affected the other masses in the universe. Yet none of these events may have occurred. It was possible that time inside that sphere was absolutely independent of time outside it. The notion was not so fantastic. God Almighty! Less than seventy minutes ago, Donna Wellington had ibeen inside the ship. Now the ship was inside her. And when the electrons and the nuclei of the atoms composing the ship and the crew came into contact, what then? Explosion? Or were the elements made up of divisible subelements, and collapse would go on towards the inner infinity? He thought of the #th-century stories of a man shrinking until the molecules became clusters of suns and the nuclei were the suns and the electrons were the planets. Eventually, the hero found himself on an electronlanet with atmosphere, seas, rivers, plains, mountains, trees, animals and aboriginal sentients. These stories were only fantasies. Atomic matter was composed of wavicles, stuff describable in terms of both waves and particles. The parahomun cuius hero would be in a cosmos as bewildering as that encountered by the aew of the Sleipnir on breaking into the extra-universe space. That fantasy galloping across the sky of his mind, swift as the original Sleipnir, eight-legged horse of All-Father Odin of his ancestor's religion, would have to be dismissed. Donna Wellington was not a female Ymir, the primeval giant out of whose slain corpse was formed the world, the skull the sky, the blood the sea, the flesh the Earth, the bones the mountains. No, the heat of contraction would increase until the men cooked in their suits. What happened after that would no longer be known to the crew and hence of no consequence. ' # #aptain!" MacCool's face was on the auxiliary screen, kept open to the engine room. "We'll be ready to go in a minute;" Sweat mingled with, tears to blur the image of the engineer's face. "We'll make it then," Grettir said. Four minutes later, the tumble was stopped, the ship was pointed upwards and vas on its way out. The temperature began dropping inside the slvo at one degree F per # seconds. I he blackness was relieved by a gray thread. The thread broadened into ribbon, and then the ribbon became the edges of two mountain ridges, one below and the one above hanging upside down. "This time," Grettir said, "we'll make a hole more than large enough." Van Voorden, much-tranquilized by a pill, entered the bridge as the Sleipnir passed through the break. Grettir said, "The hole repairs itself even more quickly than it did the last time. That's why the nose was cut off. We didn't know that the bigger the hole, the swifter the rate of reclosure." Van Voordep said, "Thirty-six more! Why bother to go home when home no longer exists? Not that I particularly care now. Anyway, it'll all be very interesting." "Maybe there won't be that much time gone," Grettir said. "Do you remember Minkowski's classical phrase? From henceforth space in itself and time in itself sink to mere shadows, and only a kind of union of the two preserves an independent existence. "That phrase applied to the world inside the sphere, our world. Perhaps out here the union is somehow dissolved, the marriage of ace and time is broken. Perhaps no time, or very little, has elapsed in our worid." "It's possible," Van Voorden said. "But you've overlooked one thing. Captain. If our world has not been marked by time while we've been gone, we have been marked. Scarred by unspace and untime. I'll never believe in cause and effect and order throughout the cosmos again. I'll always ibe suspicious, anxious. I'm a ruined man." Grettir started to answer but could not make himself heard. The men and women on the bridge were weeping, sobbing, or laughing shriify. Later, they would think of that out there as a nightmare and would try not to think of it at alU. And if other nightmares faced them here, at least they would be nightmares they knew. r Stories from all the world over -- Plus arficles, columns and a foafure report on fho # International Scinece Fiction Film Festival by Frederik PohL IF IF  Short Story The generals knew fhe computers could wage war better than they. But the computers knew it too! # And deploy the #nd Airborne around Dallas. As soon as the #rd Infantry has moved into a reserve position, the #nd will attack." General Emerito Sandez watched the gigantic wall map of the United States light and flash with troop movements. A long whistling sigh punctuated his sharp shallow breathing. His pale gray eyes, deep-seated pools of light which usually illuminated his dark, rough-hewn features, were red rimmed and cloudly with exhaustion. He clenched his eyes tightly shut as he ran his thick fingers through his coarse black hair, then reached for a cup of coffee. He considered smoking his last cigarette, but resolved to wait just awhile longer. Would his latest tactic work? He had launched an amphibious assault against Galveston earlier which should have forced Marco Polo to strengthen his coastal defenses. That meant weakening his land bases. And the Dallas garrison was the logical one to provide fresh troops. Now, whale Dallas was weakened, was the time to attack. Ah, what was the use? He would almost certainly fail again. He would lose the #nd. And Texas. Just as he had already lost Arizona and Kentucky. What the hell, he thought, removing a battered pack of Luckies from his shirt pocket. He lit his last cigarette, puffed at it, felt the smoke claw at his raw throat. He started to crush the empty pack into an angry ball but stoppwl, idly determined to check it one final time. He ripped a ragged tear of tinfoil off the top of the pack and poked in a curious forefinger. Huddled back in a corner was one bent and wrinkled cigarette. The General smiled in wan self-amusement. Another last cigarette to hoard and worry over. in advance of an incoming message. The General turned to face the speaker. Eyes narrowed in worried expectation, he waited for Marco Polo, the giant computer, to speak. T he voice issued from the grid, tinny but loud. And unmistakably high-pitched and childlike. 'One Hundred Eighty-Thecond Airborne engaged by Theventy-Third and Theventy-Fourth Armored Cavalry in conjunction with ThirtyFifth Infantry. Attack on Dallath unthuccethful. Your cathualtieth: ninety-theven per thent. My cathualtieth: thirteen per thent. Nithe try. Your move.' Facial muscles that had been apprehensively tense sagged now in defeat. The general's eyes seemed deeper imbedded in their sockets, their pale spark dulled. He stared at the bright yellow circle that marked Dallas on the war map, imagined the red amoeba that would indicate an atomic blast birthing at its center, extending hungry pseudopods through the twin circle of Fort Worth into the adjoining countryside. Pointless thought. Nuclear weapons were banned frewn the war game to which Marco Polo had challenged him. He glanced at his watch, checked it against the #-hour d,ock on tile far wall. Twenty-two hours. Twenty-two hours of matching wits with a computer that lisped, trying desperately to ukI a chink in its armor of logic. Drinking coffee, smokmg, eating t# nothing but six peanut-butter crackers he had found in a packet in his tunic pocket. Small wonder he felt exhausted, his mind barren. But Marco Polo was as fresh now as it had been twenty-two hours earlier when General Sandez had come on duty for his twerity-four hour stint as the brain behind the United States's nuclear fist. Since then the General had been playing the computer's war game, spurred on by visions of the horrifying consequences of defeat and the possibility -- the almost hopelessly remote possibility -- of achieving at least a stalemate. And all the while, steadily losing. F or his four hours in the control room, the General was the man with the finger on the button, so to speak. Responsible only to the President, he was the man who decided where and when America's battery of missiles would be hurled. He had only to press a certain combination of three buttons to sow destruction in cities half a world away. Awesome power for one man and not lightly bestowed. Before being assigned to his post. General Sandez and each of the five other men who spent four hours of every twentyfour at the helm of total war had come through the most comprehensive battery of tests for psychological and emotional stability that men could devise. As a further safeguard, the six-man crew was rotated with three other crews -- a thirty-day tour of duty followed by a rest period of ninety. The first, and what might well prove to be the last, test of the IF general's stability had come this morning -- the sixteenth day of his tour -- an hour and ten minutes into his watch. General Sandez was studying the teletyped messages from military outposts the world over when a sound like a giant's hiccup was instantly followed by total darkness. The general's body reacted instinctively -- muscles tensing, knees flexing -- in primitive preparation for combat. Through his mind flashed pictures of airborne Russian and Chinese missiles, of incinerated cities and men vaporized in blinding fireballs. He pictured the location of the three fatal buttons (green, yellow, red) and knew he could find them unerringly, even in this absolute blackness. He wondered if they would work now, if the power failure had affected their special emergency circuit, if the Control Center had been put out of commission totally by sabotage. But he did not move. Not yet. He waited, balancing thoughts. The power failure might be due to perfectly natural causes, might be corrected in seconds. If an attack had been launched against the United States, he still had ten to fifteen minutes to unleash massive retaliation. If not... He preferred not to think of the results of what would be a final, irrevocable action. But just in case, the general now moved silently to the control bank that housed the green button and waited, counting the seconds under his breath. Each month IF brings you a sciencefiction story by someone never before published. This month's "first" author is James Stevens, a graduate student in active in the Depot Theater in Chamtor, folksinger, guitarist, Stevens is # years old, married and was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Another massive hiccup, and the lights blazed back to life, the normal buzz and hum of the computer banks refilled the control room. And something else, the general thought, stopping his breath to hear better, something new. A deeper sort of... throbbing. That wasn't the right word, but a sort of deep electronic pulse. The general resumed breathing, cleared his throat. And the computer spoke. 'General Thandethr The general spun to face the speaker grid in the center of the computer housing. His mouth went dry. '# am Marco Polo. I am that W as this someone's idea of a joke?! The computer actually speaking through the grid designed for communication with ground level? And speaking with a child's voice and a child's lisp? '# have linked mythelf with the Ruthian Command Computer, the Man mutht prove himthelf intellectually fit to thurvive. Otherwithe there ith no logical reathon for kith exithtenth and he mutht be exterminated Surely this was a joke! And yet the general could not believe that anyone associated with the defense project could be mad enough to attempt such an irresponsible act. challenge Humanity to a war game. Winner take all. You thall reprethent Humanity, General Thandeth. If you win, you will have atherted Manth right to thurvival. If you lothe, you will have proven the validity of the concluthion the IV AN# # and I have reached and you will be dethtroyed. Do you underthtand? It seemed insane, yet the general accepted the machine's statements as facts. And this was another reason why he had been chosen for his post. The ability to absorb data, even unknown, seemingly irrational factors, and reach a decision based on them that was accurate. The general knew, though logic and emotion protested in utter dishow, in some inexplicable, impossible manner, attained consciousness. He relegated this turmoil of unbelief to the back of his mind as years of military training and preparation took over. "I understand," the general said in a surprisingly unemotional voice. "How is the game to be played?" The war map of the United Thtateth will therve as game board, American military unitth bathed on the continent will be our pietheth, I will be your opponent. A screen to the left of the war map lit up. It listed a variety of military units. Thothe thall be your fortheth. Thethe thall be mine. Another screen to the right of the war map was illuminated. You will inform me ath to each of your moveth.  will then indicate them on the war map and indicate my countermove. I will then calculate the rethultth of the enthuing battle and inform you of them. Ith that clear? "Yes. The game is restricted to the board and does not in reality affect the cities and units involved. Is that correct?" Correct. "One more question. Assuming I should lose, how do you propose to destroy us?" JL  will thimultaneously launch every Ruthian and American mithile. The rethulting holocautht will reduthe the Earth to a planetary thinderj "Do we begin now?" Correct. One final note. You have been thealed in thith room and will remain incommunicado until the game ith played out. Thothe outthide are connected to my thpeaker thythtem and can hear everything you or I thay. Begin. The general scanned the war map, noting Marco Polo's strongholds, glanced at the list of units available to him, then resumed study of the map. After perhaps a minute and a half he reached a decision. He would fight Marco Polo by IF sections. He had considered launching simultaneous taittacks on all the computer's strongholds but this would mean correlating and controlling twenty-five to fifty battles at the same time. A simple task for the ry banks and ability to make lightninglike calculations, but impossible for him. So he would attempt to destroy Marco Polo piecemeal. "Have the #nd Infantry and #th Armored Cavalary hit Sacramento and mobilize a task force from the #th Fleet to begin shelling Miami." Two battles at once he could handle. But he inunediately foresaw the impossibility of the task facing him. Marco Polo might be no more than a super-machine but it had every fact on strategy, tactics and military history stored in its memory banks. Plus, it had the advantage of rigid logic. It could calculate and take into account every possible consequence of any move or countermove in a matter of seconds. And it wouldn't make mistakes. Inevitably, he would. N OW' the general rose ponderously from his seat at the control board and stretched his aching frame. He threw his head and shoulders back, arching his back, and felt the muscles crackle in protest. He stared blankly at the war map, scratching his head with his left hand. On the table next to him lay scattered a sheaf of index cards on which he had kept a tabulation of the results of each encounter. His right hand pushed them unconsciously about as though they were lost chess pieces. Idly he riffled through the cards. He had been steadily losing from the very beginning. Shelling of Miami # successful. Not good. Task force counterattacked by atomic submarine pack causing # losses. Losses to sub pack, #, Nearly even. But the troops that had conquered Sacramento had been forced to retreat after taking # casualties from a counterattack by the #rd Infantry supported by the #th Fighter Wing. # casulaties. Not good at all, not at all. Then something clicked in the general's numbed mind. He riffled through the cards and came up with the listing of the Sacramento encounter. He stared at it for a long minute, then twisted violently aroufid to see the screen designating Ma # xx Polo's units. The #rd Infantry was stationed in Minnesota and the #th Fighter Wing in Rhode Island. They couldn't possibly have been brouglht into play in Sacramento. The general didn't want to believe the inescapable conclusion. Marco Polo was cheating. Had been cheating from the very first. It didn't make sense. Yet it was obviously true. He was dealing with a dishonest child. A dishonest electronic child that knew more than he did and could think more logically. And that, thought the general, was funny. That was very, very funny. And so, in his despair, he laughed. T he result was inevitable. Marco Polo would continue destroying the units the general sent into combat, chopping down his forces until he would have to surrender for lack of firepower and manpower. Missiles emblazoned with red stars and missiles displaying white stars in blue fields would fill the air, and the Earth would flare with the light of thousands of miniature suns, a funeral pyre for Man. The general thought these thoughts and then thought of his wife, Carmen Maria, whom he had never really understood and whom he loved partly because she had always remained somewhere just beyond the boundaries of his comprehension. It was strange to think of, but he had never in their thirty years of married life won an argument with her. He wondered what she would be doing when 'the bombs hit and realized she was at this moment probably sitting home by the phone waiting for word of new developments. John Jorgensen, his relief man, would surely have communicated 'his situation to her. She would not have come to the Control Center, he knew, because she was smart enough to know that would aid nothing. But she would have been awake these last twentytwo hours, drinking coffee and smoking in a sort of sympathy vigil. She would be worried for him, but not for herself. Concerned about the strain he was under, but completely confident in his ability to cope with any situation. The chances were she would never know he had failed her this time unless she was in the direct path of one of the missiles. Then she would hear its death scream and in those few seconds before the fireball blossomed around and within her, she would know. H e shuddered inwardly at the image he had conjured of her death. He swallowed some coffee to warm his suddenly cold body but it was lukewarm and tasted bitter as ashes in his dry mouth. The computer spoke. Your move, General Thandeth 'T know," the general snapped. 'T'm thinking." What could he do? What avenues were open to him now? He could continue his original plan of fighting by sections, but that led to certain defeat. Or he could surrender now, admit he was licked and smoke his last cigarette till the bombs flared. Or... Or he could win! It would involve a terrible risk, but it was the only course left to him. "Marco Polo." He paused for instant, blanking his mind... and then he knew this was the correct decision. "Marco Polo. All my forces are to retreat immediately. Units are not to engage the enemy." The general turned to the war map, eyes narrowed intently. If this came off... He blinked. Nothing was happening. Supposing he were wrong... General Thandetfi, Pleathe repeat your latht command" "AH troops will retreat at once. IF Umts arc not ito engage the enemy." 'That ith illogical." "Nevertheless, (that is my move." lights began flasihing on the war map, winking their way across the continent and into the oceans where they continued to gjow dully. There was an interminable period of silence while the war map remained inactive and the general regarded the speaker grid with unbearable tenseness. Finally, the computer spoke. "All your fortheth withdrawn. Cannot defeat you if you will not thionth on your victory. The game ith ended." The general's face relaxed gratefully into a broad grin. He lolled back exhausted in his chair. He withdrew his last cigarette from its crumpled pack and lit it. He puffed on it luxuriously, rolling the rich smoke around in his mouth. Then he thought of his wife, and he exploded into laughter. He had been right. The machine knew more than he did, it could calculate faster than he could, and it thought coldly, ruthlessly, with complete logic. And so the one thing it was incapable of coping with was that most hiunan of qualiities. Illogic. Idly the general noticed the door that had sealed 'him in sliding silently up into its slot in the wall above the door frame. He rose and started slowly toward the opening, still chuckling. On the other side of the door was    the private elevator that would take him up to ground level. It could be activated only by his key. When the next man came on duty, the lock would be recycled to respond to the latter's key. General Sandez imagined the scene at ground level. Men would be grinning and laughing, slapping each other on the back after almost a day of awaiting the result of the drama he had just played c it. Jorgensen had probably produced one of the bottles he kept cached about his office. The general licked his dry lips meditatively. He could do with a shot of scotch. Then home to Carmen Maria and finally sleep. Something would have to be don #. But that was up to the mathematicians and computer techniciani now. H e grinned gigantically and stretched slowly, catlike, just short of the door. A delicious torpor began to settle into his muscles and the grin melted into a yawn. He reached into his pocket for the elevator key. He looked at it intently for several seconds, then smiling, tossed it into the air and caught it with a flourish. The door crashed down like a guillotine. The general whirled to face the computer, his face full of surprise and fear. And Marco Polo spoke again. "How about two out of three?   IF  Novelette Dreamhouse There's not much to do on New Kansas while you're awake -- but, ah, what golden dreams! I T he plains of New Kansas reach from horizon to horizon, and they are a consistently dusty-dull, blue-greenish tan. They are nearly as flat and featureless as the sea, almost the same color; and the grass rolls forever with the same long, lazy waves. All this makes any one part of the planet very much like any other part -- except that half of it is wet, half is dry. Clouds are objects of great interest; they are something to look at, and they give a badly needed feeling of depth to the sky -- which is like a blue force, crowding down on the sea and land, flattening all. Even the people seem flattened. They live in a sort of stoop-shouldered crouch as if straightening upright would suddenly bang their heads against the sky, and not only would that hurt, but the sky would surely ring like a vast, brassy gong. In all. New Kansas seems to have been created in a great hurry by a rather unimaginative god as if it had fallen off the back of some celestial wagon and never been missed. The land is badly fractured, cracked by low rimrocks zigzagging across the plains for hundreds of miles like burned out lightning bolts. But it is these ragged rims that make the planet barely habitable; they are the visual references that keep the eye and mind from running wild in a desperate search for something to look at. But then, like the rest of New Kansas, any rimrock is almost identical to another. Two things can be done with them: one can stand below and look up, or one can stand on top and look down. In either case, for aU the looking, there is nothing more to see. Occasional settlements, perhaps, depending on distance, but they are extremely occasional. The two in closest proximity are #I miles apart. They are called the Twin Cities. O ne of these is Site, so named because the first settlers' ship happened to crash there # years ago. It is the largest city by far, about #; and it sprawls all around the spaceport as if it had just now been thrown hurriedly from 'the cargo ports of some huge ship. Site does not think it at all unusual to have a spaceport smack in its middle; it would have it no other way, really. The mighty shining ships come down -- when they come down at all -- in a rousing roar heard round the world. Every liftoff, every landing, sometimes just the standing ship is broadcast live to every antenna -- and that means to everyone! Except those, of course, who happened to be watching it real. And that means those who arc watching it 'live just bum to be watohing it real. And they make great promises to themselves and their families to go someday to Site and really watch the mighty shining ships come down in a rousing roar -- which happens, on the average, about once a year. But it is enough to make Site the Center of the World, and very few cities and no towns at all can make that statement. People make the pilgrimage to Site from all over New Kansas, and Site endeavors not to disappoint them. It delivers... anything... everything... especially diversion. For if ever a people were in dire need of diversion it is the stooped, flat folk of New Kansas. As Bill Henry, "Mark Twain, the Second," once said: "I think New Kansas must be some other world's hell." But this is a 'bit unfair. There are a number of attractive qualities. It is quiet. The food is good. There is lots of sunshine. Seldom is heard a discouraging word; on the other hand, seldom is heard an encouraging one either. It has the lowest incidence of crimes of violence in the entire known galaxy -- in fact, it simply does not 'have them at all. But the IntergalpK)! took ithe gloss off that by concluding that there was nothing on New Kansas to get excited about. New Kansans, however, think otherwise; and some of Site's offerings are considered rather racy. Some are considered downright sinful. And this, of course, does not bother business at all; as the Big There's nothing like a little sin To make a little cash come in So Site is what might be called attraotively sinful, and one of the most sinfully attractive features is the Dreamhouse. T he Dreamhouse is a house for dreaming. And dreams have few limits -- only those established, in this case, by the New Kansas Supreme Court. And about once a month the boundaries are evidently too well explored, the Dreamhouse is closed down for a night or two and the news is out and the waiting line on Saturday night is four times longer than usual and there's even a line on weeknights until business tapers off into another month and the law makes another raid. The Dreamhouse has over # dreams listed, running, objective time, from about an hour to over three hours. There are dreams for all age groups and even group dreams. There is everything from six subjective hours in a rowboat, disturbing the trout, to ten hours of trying to keep a six masted clipper reasonably upright in a force # hurricane; from a half-hour stroll across a misty meadow to a nineday fight up the damnedestmost crag in the galaxy; from a four-hour sunny-funny picnic to a fourteenhour game of chess; from boss dust figuration Tappers. Yes! From toddlers to totterers! From Yesteryear to another Universe! From the Halls of Montezuma to Slag VI -- there are dreams and dreams and dreams and even dreams. And "dream" is really not the right word -- "experience" would be much better, for that is what happens. The person lives that subjective period as surely as he lives at all. It is really his life in that situation, and -- what is best of all -- he knows it. He knows he is going to win, or succeed, or come out smelling like a rose, or whatever it is he is after -- he knows he is in for a happy ending. That's what the Dreamhouse is for, isn't it? You go there and... II E arly morning mist rode low and cold over the gray, greasy harbor waters; and the spars and masts of the few brave blockade runners stood like tall, ghostly skeletons at the docks. He raised ihis head, his dark, piercing eyes crinkling in the corners, his fine, aristocratic nose flaring slight"It'll come, Selda," he said, his rich baritone sounding low on the hushed deck. "It'll come hard nor' by nor'west right at peak ebb tide over Badman's Bar just three points on the port 'bow from the old bdl buoy off Prattle Point right at eight beUs plus or minus a couple of dings either way." IF She shivered deliciously against him, her pert, pale face finsuned perfectly by her dark burgundy hocxl. "Then you is really, really gonna go, Lance." "I have to, Selda." He gazed off into the mists with distance in his eyes. She curved closer to him, her voice husky. "I... I wish you didn't have to, Lance." He smiled down at her, teeth flashing. "Well -- I suppose I could hang around for another day." Dizziness flickered through him. She gave a slight frown. "Be careful out there, Lance. For me." "Why don't I be careful with you." He enfolded her in a strong, bronzed arm. "Let's us slip below here for a little while and -- " The dizziniess hit him again. He tried to fight it. She looked at him strangely. "Why, Lance Vance! Whatever do you mean? I is a proper girl!" "Sure, sure, but let's just talk it over." The whole harbor seemed to be reeling around him. "We're both adults and -- " "Why, you damn swabby!" she squalled, winding up with her pretty pink parasol. "You an' your damn 'Let'sgo-see-my-boat bit!" And -- whap! -- she wrapped (the parasol half around his head and then straightened it out with another swing from the other side, and he... H e opened his eyes. He blinked. He felt his head. Then he bolted to hit feet and stared around the small cubicle. He had been laying on a narrow, padded shelf along one wall. At the head of the shelf lay a helmet with a coaxial cable leatog into the wall. On the helmet was the number #. "What the -- " He was a young man. He was a big, young man. He was a big, angry, young man. He wore clean farm clothes -- town clothes -- and boots heavy enough to plow furrows in a street, and his face and arms were burned nearly the color of his leather jacket. "Hey!" he yelled m a voice calculated to call cows about two miles. He lashed the cuhicle curtain aside and charged into the corridor. "Hey! Somethin's just about wrong here!" An usher quickly and quietly ushered him to an office. "I didn't get my dream!" he told the cold man who sat behind a desk, who only stared at him in a cold way for a long, cold moment, who then spoke in a low, cold voice. "Whadya mean, you didn't get your dream?" "I mean I didn't get it! It didn't work. It just sitarted and then quit, and... and it just went all wrong." After a moment of cool deliberation, the cold man said, "Whadya mean, it just went aM wrong?" "I mean it went all wrong, that's what I mean!" The angry young man was becoming angrier. The cold man behind the desk leaned forward and became colder. "like what went wrong?" The young man hesitated, frowntng down oit the toes of his boots. "Well  . he began, frowning harder to hIp get the words out. "It just barely started and then... then it quit." He looked up again with a determined scowl. "And I think it's a cheat!" "Okay," said Ihe cold man, after another long moment. "You can have another." He nodded at the usher. The young man started to turn, but the cold man stopped him. "You weren't tryin' to influence it, were ya?" The young man frowned. "Whadya mean, influence it?" "The dream! Were you tryin' to make it do somethin' it wasn't supposed ito do?" "No... I don't think so." "You don't think so!" Ice formed on the words. The young man shook his head. 'T wiasn't tryin' to make it do nothin'." The cold man frosted him over again for a long moment, then waved him away. T he cute little blonde stewardess with the audacious breasts and the bright blue eyes stopped by him in the ship's lounge, and her voice was low and urgent. "Pardon me, sir, but are you a Suicide Space Scout pilot?" "Why, yes." He grinned in his lopsided, boyish way. "How did you guess?" "Because it says 'Suicide Space Scouts' on the back of your leather jacket in orange luminescent letters." She glanced quickly around the crowded lounge and lowered her voice to a throaty whisper. "Can you pilot this ship?" An electric tingle bolted through him; the warm, famiMar Suicide Space Scout reaction to emergency. He grasped the situation immediately. "Something's wrong." "Yes." He nodded. "I thought so when you asked me if I could pilot the ship." "Well, can you?" "Certainly... What kind of a ship is it?" "Well..." She opened her eyes so wide he could almost see clear to the back of her head. "It's a big one." "Uhm." He put an arm around her. "What seems to be the trouble?" "WeU, the command officers seem to have died." He nodded grimly. "Yes, that would do it, and there is no one to land us on Toughluck II, right?" "Except... She looked up at him through lowered lashes and breathed out the word like blowing a kiss... you-u." His keen, level gaze swept the lounge, taking in the happy crowds. They were unaware of the danger, their lives depending on him now. Men, women and children, and then there were some girls too. Over # lives were in his hands. "I'll give it a try," he said, tossing off the last of his drink. "Why not?" She gazed up at him in open admiraitioQ. He grinned his winning, happy-go-lucky grin. "How long before we warp out of IF hyper into norm-space-time relative subjective?" "About an hour," "Well... He really put the old whambam in his smile. "Time enough for us to drop by my cabin for a little sock of sauce. Let's us -- " There was a sudden buzzing in his head. She was trying to tell him something. "... familiarize yourself with the control console." He groped for her through a thickening haze. "... only one thing I wanna familiarize myself with, baby." A fist the size of a small train came looming out of the haze followed by a big face. The fist gathered in the front of his jacket from shoulder to shoulder, and the face frowned and spoke. "Zap off, rocket jockey!" "Listen," he said, trying to sound intimidating with 'his boot toes just brushing the floor. "The command officers of this ship are all dead, and I'm the only one who can land us on Toughluck... so put me down." "Gorilla guano!" the face said, and the other trainlike fist came out of the fog in a flash an then he... H e stood and looked at the cold man behind" the icy desk, who said, after long consideration, "Whadya mean, it went wrong again?" "I mean it went wrong again! That's what!" His fists were bunched, and he looked ready to shaititer the desktop with one mighty blow. "Just because, I'm from tihe plains you knockeirs i tihink you can door me out, well you -- " "You ever been here before?" "No. And what's that got to do with -- " "You never been in the Dreamhouse, huh?" "No, I never been in the Dreamhouse huh!" The cold man leaned carefully on the edge of his desk, and his voice sounded like cracked ice. "Now you listen to me, boy, and you listen good! I think you're tryin' to push it, do you know what I mean? I think you're tryin' to make the dream do somethin' it isn't supposed to do. And 'that don't work! The feedback couples up the whole inducer; it wakes you up, and it makes me mad!" The young man was shaking his head. "No, I -- " "Lock up! I been in this business too long, dustbuster. You'ire what we call a cheater, tryin' itio get a iiittle extra juice out of the grape." He chilled the room for a while in silence, then spoke again, low and deliberately. "You get one more chance, boy. Just one! Bust this and you're doored out for good. Understand?" The young man nodded; the usher opened the door and stood aside, and a fast glance flickered between the usher and the cold man at the desk. Ill W arily, creeping ahead slowly in a low crouch, he topped the ridge and searched the rolling land beyond. His sharp eyes were narrowedand his, face wore a look of grim determination. Nothing moved in that barren land of rock and sand, nothing grew. It was a cruel land, harsh and inhospitable, alien; 'and there was something about it that made him uncomfortable. The girl crept up beside him, close, and pushed her long, dark hair back from her large, brown eyes. "Do you see anything, Adam?" she whispered. He shook his head, still watching the hostile land. "But that doesn't mean they aren't there," he said, voice low and level. He glanced at the charge indicator of his laser rifle. "Less than twenty percent." "What are they?" she asked, an edge of fear showing behind the words. He gave a wry grin. "What are they? Part jaguar, part octopus, part wolverine, part shark, part lizard, part bat -- probably not friendly at all." She shuddered and attempted to draw the tattered remains of her coverall closer about her, but there was far more girl than there was material. "I wonder if we'll ever find the others," she said, then faltered. "If... there are any..." "Perhaps someday. It's a big world. And there's always the chance that... maybe they weren't as lucky as we." The scene flashed through his mind: their tiny lifecraft screaming into the atmosphere of 'this unknown planet of an uncharted sun, its velocity too great for the autoretros; the rending, tumbling crash across the desert; the two of them thrown clear, marooned with nothing but a laser rifle and their clothes. And the rifle was running out of charge, and they were running out of cloithes. Especially she. "Less than twenty percent," he murmered. "Huh?" "The rifle," he explained. "You see, the electronic charge is -- " T here's one!" she shouted. He snapped up the rifle. A flitting, flopping, slathering, hairy scaled, gray-andwhite striped, flat blur was browling land bubbling and surging up the slope. "... with eyes of flame," he breathed. "... whiffling through the tulgy wood -- " Ferchrisake shoot n shutup!" "... and burbled at it came." T he burbling bolt was kicking up a roostertail of sand behind it for a quarter mile, and the wind shrieking through its spines was deafslashed through several large boulders, a distant butte, the beast and left in its wake four miles of sixfoot trench, two beast halves and a small atomic reaction blaze. "Oh Lord," she said. "Not again. Let's make tracks." And she made some rapid ones back down the ridge. He followed, observantly wiatching the callipygian cavortion where her coverall failed to cover all. She finally slowed. "Keep going," he yelled. "Keep going." But after several bad falls he was forced to stop. IF "Whait's' tihe matter?" she said, over his left eye. "Can't you stand up?" "Well I have these little dizzy spells sometimes," he said, trying to get a good look lat her breasts. "Probably from the crash, you know." "Dizzy spells at least!" she snorted. "The way you handle that rifle and keep me racing through the rocks, I figure we're going to run out of rifle charge, my clothes and your self-control all about the same time. Are you all right now?" He tore his gaze away and let her help him to his feet. "I guess I've hurt my leg," he gritted, putting an arm around her to keep from falling. "#...' . can't seem to put any weight on it." "Buddy, you got a window open upsitairs!" She disentangled herself, losing a little more coverall in the process. "And we should be thinking about a safe place for camp tonight too," he went on. "Looks like there's a cave up there in the side of that rim. Let's -- " "Camp!" She stared at him . "It isn't even midday yet!" "Yeah well it's always a good idea to stop early, you know. We don't know very much about this planet, and you're littler than me." She blinked. "And what's that got to do with anything?" "Well..." He grinned. "I just thought I'd remind you in case I have to -- " She kicked him in tthe kneecap. He sat down. "Whadya do that for? Now I am hurt!" "You gonna get hurter too if you don't mental up. Let's go!" She swung away, but stopped. "You lead. I'll keep an eye on the rear." He started to laugh, but decided not to. Reluctantly, he limped by her, and they started again across the vast land. In a short time he was once more caught up in the grim search for danger. His keen mind 'became more clear, his instincts -- rwiheres oner she screamed. He JL jumped and nearly ot his foot off. "Dammit, will you not do that!" "There there there there!' She was pointing at a far figure on a far hill. He let the rifle drop. "Goodgawd, that's over three miles away." "Too closer He squinted against the sun, frowned, then squinted harder. "Hey... I think that's a human." She squinted. "It can't be." "I think it's a girl!" Shootr But he was gone at a gallop. It was a human, and it was a girl human. It was a lithe and little, peaches and cream, pert and pretty, natural redhead, blue eyed, nude and nubile girl human. She smiled up at him in an open, childlike manner as he came to a breathless standstill. "Hi there," she said in a soft, little girl voice. "I'm Susie Lou. I'm twenty years old and never been out of the house. I'm lonely. Who are you?" "Well I'm Adam, of course, and other. "Haven't you any clothes, let's hurry over here and hide behoney?" hind this rock. It's a game, see, Susie blinked her big, blue eyes, and -- " "Clothes? Why (wear clothes?" "Who's that running and yelling "That's what I say," he nodded, behind you?" stariting to strip off his coverall. "It's "Well that's what I'm tryin' to just hotter than -- " tell you. What we do is -- " "Just hold it right there, Tar"If she's nice I want to meet her." zan!" She axed him with a glance. "Have you ever heard of the Wick"Say, that's pretty good," he ed Witch?" chuckled. "Me Tarzan, you -- " "Aw... " She pouted. "You're She kicked him in the other kneefimnin' me." cap. He sat down, holding his knee "Well that's another thing I in one hand and his head in the wanta bring up, but right now -- " other. "Adaml Get your grubby grab"Something is not right," he said bers off her!" She closed the discarefully. tance in remarkable time and slid Susie frowned at Jane. "You hurt to a halt between them. He slumpthe pretty man." ed, his voice dull. He nodded. Jane said something "Susie, Jane. Jane, Susie." unintelligible, ithen, "Come on, Jane put her arm around the honey, let's -- " IF "Now just one minute!" he said, her away. He tugged her hack. Jane voice rising. snatched her away. He swapped "You've got a dirty mind!" Jane ends with the rifle and caved in snapped. "And I'm not -- " the side of Jane's head. "What's a dirty mind?" Susie ask"There!" ed. Jane's eyes nearly caught fire. Susie smiled up at him. "You're "See what you've done to her? strong." Ohh!" He smiled down at her. "You're His mouth was all right, hut his cute." voice would not work. Jane nearly The cold man smiled across at yanked the smaller girl off her feet. him. "You're a liar!" "I've got to get you away from There was a sound inside ihis head him, Susie! He's a sex maniac!" like a little pinwheel fizzling out in "What's a sex maniac?" a pool of water... He stood up. "Jane, you're about IV as sane as she is dressed!" "Right! I'm a sane Jane -- oh no T Te was in front of that desk again, you don't!" He had reached for A i And ithe cold man was sitting Susie's other arm, but Jane pulled behind that desk, leaning back in her away. He grabbed Susie's wrist his creaky old swivel chair, making and pulled her back. Jane tugged a church and steeple with his long. icicle floigers. The cold man was smiling; bult diere were frost flecks in his eyeis, and everything seemed to be frosted in the txxMn. Even the air wias fuzzy. The cold man spoke, and the temperature came down twelve degrees. "She sure was askin' for it, wasn't slie?" He nodded. She sure was! The cold man was right that time. Yessir! She... He suddenly stood stunned and staring. The cold man's smile widened, lowering that temperature. "Yep, (that was quite a dream you had, boy." He bit his lower lip. "But how -- " The cold man waved a frosty hand. "Nothing to it. A siimple matter of negative feedback into a recorder -- some such ilas-h up as that -- but that isn't what we're concerned about, is it?" He rubbed his forehead. "I remember... you called me a liar." "Just a formality, boy. We couldn't have you waking up with the wrong ideas, now could we?" "What?" He turned toward the door. The usher was parked against it like a stalled truck. He swung back. "What's goin' on here?" The cold man spread his hands. "My dear boy! It's not for me to say." He stared at the cold man, and from deep inside he could feel heat rising. "Well, somebody sure as hell better say 'cause I don't know what you're talkin' about!" The frozen smile vanished. "We're talkin' about your dream makin' some mighty entertaining moments for the old folks at home, that's what we're talkin' about! You tuned in now?" His voice was a long time coming even though his mouth was open and waiting for it. 'Whatr "And after the family's had their booties out of it, we'll give a private showing for the boys at the dingy wing in the Site Hospital! How's that for purity of understanding? You committed a happy act of violence, dustbuster! And what you had in mind wasn't exactly scheduled for Sunday school either! You're sick! You're -- " "A dream! It wasn't nothin' but a dream!" "Beautiful! We'U just turn it over id diddlers down at the hospital and forget the whole thing." The cold man swung away and busied himself with some papers. "Now wait a minute -- " "Door out!" #'Vjo. Wait a minute..." He looked around at the usher again -- no help ithere -- then back to the cold man. "I'm waitin'." "Well... what is it you want?" "I'll tell you what I don't want, grasslander -- I don't want no more of you're mouth!" He stood, matched eyes with the cold man and lost. "And it isn't what we want, boy, it's what do you want? What did you come here for?" IF He blinked at the cold man as if he had just said something stupid. came to get a dream, what -- " "EK)n't act stupid just because it's easy. You came after a Vicky and don't tell me you didn't."... Well I don't even know what a 'Vicky' is!" It was the cold man's turn to blink. He looked at the young man, then at the usher, then back. "Assuming you've got a real corner on dumb. I'll tell you what a Vicky is: it's a vicarious experience concerning a girl. And it's -- well, I'U be damned. I haven't seen anybody blush like that for 'thirty years. Okay, so you're ignorant. Now, since we're nice guys and you're a customer, we're gonna make a little arrangement -- you get your Vicky and we get... oh, let's say about five big ones." "Five -- " "Let's say you're buyin' your recording so we won't lose it in the wrong place." "But I haven't got that -- " "'Course not. You're gonna get it." He got it. He called an old uncle and told an old story, and the five big ones came sizzling in, hot in his hand. So he laid them quickly on the icy desk, and the cold man smiled through the steam and said: "We're not really baddies, boy, we're gonna fix you up real right." T he ship gave a final shudder as it warpled into hyperdrive, and the dull hum of utility circuits was the only sound on the control deck. Then came two whooshes of released breaths. He rolled his head and grinned at the other man. "Well, Stud, we're on our wayl" The other returned the grin and began unbuckling from his acceleration couch. "You know it, BuU," he laughed. "Just us and two hundred women. Man, that's tough duty!" "Yeah!" He fumbled with his own straps. "And nineteen years of it, even in hot hyperdrive, before planetfall. I just don't know how we're gonna stand it." They both giggled. The other stood up and stretched. "Guess we'll have our little colony pretty well started by then." "At least... Say, help me with these damn straps, will you?" "You know? I've never been so outnumbered and felt so good about k in my whole life." "You know it. Want to help me here?" "When I get back. Bull. I thought I'd just drop down and see how the girls are for a second. See if they're all right." He laughed, a little too fast and a little too high. "We can't afford any damaged cargo, can we?" "WeU just get me out of here, will ya?" He struggled against the tight webbing. "I can't reach the buckles or somethin'." The other dropped through a hatch and disappeared. "I'll be right back." His laugh echoed behind him. "Maybe in a year or two or three or four..." He twisted savagely on the Acouch, fumbling for the hidden releases. He could not find them. He  wriggled the other way, and they  were not there either. He was solkily strait jacketed in a permanently H prone position. He relaxed, marshal ed his thoughts, aipplied his rigid training and yelled as loud as he 'Ij. ' could. Then he cursed for a while. Then he tried yelling and cursing  at the same time. They were good  approaches. and they all worked equally well. Then he yelled and cursed and curled and cramped and squirmed and squiggled and finally  accomplished a position where the  best he could do was barely   breathe. IfH "Gawmam mumu bib!" he said, as S distinctly as he could, then threw himself happily into a fit of rage that managed to clear his mouth. "I'm winning!" B He was congratulating himself on M this victory when his partner returnaw dammit, Stud, will you get me out of herer Stud stared at nothing with glassy concentration. "Stud, so help me. I'll break out with my bare hands, you rotten son of a -- " 'There's only one girl down there," Stud said quietly, gazing at something clearly defined, but far away. Bull rested nicely for a moment or two, then cleared his throat. "Ah... you want to storm me with that once more?" S tud stood like an old deserted house . that even the bats had abandoned, and his voice was as hushed and as hollow. IF "Somebody fubarred all over. Only one girl. The . others weren't loaded. Just her. She's pretty. The rest didn't make it. This one's nice. Just one. The others -- " "Stud," he said softly, becoming aware that he was not just feeling his heartbeat, he was beginning to hear it. "... all by herself down there. Cute. About nineteen. One hundred and ninety-nine missed the ship. They should of known it was gonna leave on time. Somebody'll get hell. Not me. She likes me -- " "Stud?" "... just sittin' there with nothin' on but a worried look..." "Stud!" "... an' I says, 'Where'd everybody go? To the powder-room? ' -- say, you don't suppose... no, I remember now -- I looked!" He giggled. Studr "... an' she says, 'I love you,' an' I says, 'Well, Baby...'" "Help me. Stud." "... that's her name -- Baby. Did I tell you she was a blonde? She's a blonde. And..." "Stud, I'm hurt. You've got to help me. The lift-off broke something, Stud. It's my back. I'm paralyzed, buddy." "... big gray eyes and pair of  "I'm hurt bad, partner." "... you could hang your hat on..." Damn you, Stud, you horny half wit! I'll kill you!" "... gotta see if she's, okay. Lonely down there in all that room. Won#C# der why there's allthat room when there's just me 'n her? There's room down there for over two hundred... He surged agiainst the webbing, wordless sounds bubbling from his throat. If he had a blaster he could shoot his way out! He did have a blaster! He twisted and grasped the butt. There! He triggered off a short zap. Paff! Stud gazed at the smoking hole through his stomach. "Aw dammit, Bull, that ain't fair." And he died. It was but a moment's work to slice his way clear, leap over Stud's corpse and dive headlong down the hatch, but it was a good half hour before he recovered consciousness at the bottom of the stairwell. He staggered into the salon. She was there. "Oh," he said. "Hi there." Get away from mer "Huh?" "I'll kill myself if you come any closer!" He shook his head. Something seemed to be fogging up inside. "But, honey. I'm Bull. We're supposed to -- " "Not me!" "But -- " "I'll kill myself first!" "But Stud said -- " She went all soft and smiley and smokey. "Ah-h, he's cute. But you... "Now wait a minutes, baby -- " She screamed. "Don't even say my name! Oh -- you're... bl-achtr Something flickered somewhere inside, something old and broken. He lunged for her. Tll help your He did, and she tried, and he helped her. V T he cold man nodded wearily, eyes closed. His earplug chattered, and he answered. "Yeah, he's ruptured his real for sure. You should see the cake-andcandy party he just created on an Outline two... No, he's all right now, we barbied him... I'd say at least a potential four... Yeah, rU make the calls to his folks. We've got his papers... Okay, see you in a little bit. Doc." He switched off and massaged his eyes for a moment. "Anything?" ho said in a tired voice. The usher turned from studying a full wallbank of small meters. "Yessir," he nodded. "There's a push on #." "How bad?" "Surging eighteen to twenty over max allowable." "What's the dream?" The usher paused, referring to a file panel. "Group hunting; big game." He ran a finger down a long printout sheet. "Three people; man and wife... and friend." "Oh Lord," the cold man breathed. He rested his head in his hands. "Better get a monitor on it." "Right." The usher flicked a switch under meter #. "Shall I close the wall?" "Yeah, we may have to bring one in." The usher touched another IF switch, and a false wall lowered, hiding the meters. "Are they coming right over for the boy?" The cold man nodded. "Have him ready at the alley pickup door with his recordings. And tell them to bring back our damn carts! They've got about four now. And make out a hospital receipt of deposit on him for five hundred. The family probably can't afford it, but we can check that out later." "Yessir. Anything else?" "Yeah... find me another job!" The other grinned. "And cut the whole med-deteotive force of New Kansas by fifty percent? Hah!" "Hah! to you too. Sergeant. And I think we'd better arrange for another raid and lots of hot-stuff news coverage. See that the news gets laid especially heavy in the area this boy was from. Maybe we'll flush out another one or two." "Right. I'll check out # now. Get ready for a hot one." The usher sergeant left. The cold man rubbed a hand across his face, blew out a long breath, then leaned back in his chair and became very cold indeed. "There is going to be a crime of violence on New Kansas pretty soon now," he said softly to the empty room. "One of these dingy dreamers I am going to whack right in the teeth!" Exciting New SF Novel by James White by Fritz Leiber by C. C. MacApp These and many others in the December IF -- don't miss it! IF  Novelette In The Jaws Of Danger Pfy the poor dentist whose patient is big as a whale -- with a toothache to match! and stood by anxiously. preferred. the acronym to per of the transcoder. "Emergency," "North Nebula humanoid species" the little speaker said. "Only you -- rushed in and chewed out a mescan handle this, Doctor!" sagestiok with machine-like dis"You'll have to be more specific. Holmes," he said and watched the transcoder type this ont another stick. Since the Enens had no spoken language and he had not learned to decipher their tooth-dents, the transcoder was the vital link in communication. The names he applied to the Enens were facetious. These galactics had no names in their own language, and they comprehended his humor in this regard no more than had his patients back on distant Earth. But at least they were industrious folk and very clever at physical science. T he Enen read the stick and put it 'between his teeth for a hurried footnote. It was amazing, Dillingham thought, how effectively they could flex their jaws for minute variations in depth and slant. Compared to this, the human jaw was a clumsy portcullis. The message went hack to the machine. "It"s a big toothache that no one can cure. You must come." ham said, deeply flattered. "I've been training your dentists for six months now, and I must admit they're experienced and intelligent specialists. They know their maxillaries from their mandibulars. As a matter of fact, some of them are a good deal more adept than I, except in the specific area of metallic restorations. Surely -- " But the Enen grabbed the stick before any more could be imprinted by the machine's clattering jaws. "Doctor -- this is an alien. It's the son of the high muckamuck of deep." The terms, of course, were the ones he had programmed to indicate any ruling idignitary of any Other planet. He wondered whether he would he well advised to substitute more serious designations before someone caught on. Tomorrow, perhaps, he would see about it. "You, Doctor, are our only practicing exodontist. " Ah -- now it was coming clear. He was a stranger from a far planet -- and a dentist. Ergo, he must know all about off-world dentition. The Enen's faith was touching. Well, if this was a job they could not handle, he could at least take a look at it. The "alien" could hardly have stranger dentition than the Enens themselves, and success might represent a handsome credit toward his eventual freedom. It would certainly be more challenging than drilling his afternoon class in Applications of Supercolloid. "rm pretty busy with that new group of trainees," he said. This was merely a dodge to elicit more information, since the Enens tended to omit important details. They did not do so intentionally; it was just that their notions of importance differed here and there from his own. "The muckamuck has offered fifty pounds of frumpstiggle for this one service," the Enen replied. coder dutifully printed the translation. Frumpstiggle was neither money nor merchandise. He had never been able to pin down exactly what it was, but for convenience thought of it as worth it's exact weight in gold: # per ounce, # per pound. The Enens did not employ money as such, but their avid barter for frumpstiggle seemed roughly equivalent. His commission on fifty pounds would amount to a handsome dividend and would bring his return to Earth that much closer. "All right," he said. "Bring the patient in." The Enen became agitated. "The high muckamuck's family can't leave the planet. You must go to Gleep." He had half expected something of this sort. The Enens galavanted from planet to planet and system to system with dismaying nonchalance. customed to the several ways in which they far excelled Earth technology, nor the abrupt manner of their transactions. One of their captains (strictly speaking, they didn't have officers, but this was a minor matter) had required dental help and simply stopped off at the nearest inhabited planet, skipping the normal formalities, and visited a local practitioner. Realizing that local technique was in some respects superior to that of the home planet, the captain had brought the practitioner along. self the property of the Enens -- he who had never dreamed of anything other than conventional retirement in Florida. He was no intrepid spaceman, no seeker of fortune. He had been treated well enough, and certainly the Enens respected his abilities more than had his patients on Earth; but galactic intercourse was more unsettling than exciting for a man of his maturity. IF "I'll go and pack my bag," he said. U G leep turned out to be a water world. The ship splashed down beside a floating way station, and they were transferred to a tanklike amphibian vehicle. It rolled into the ocean and paddled along somewhat below the surface. that intelligent life could not evolve in water, because of the inhibiting effect of the liquid medium upon the motion of specialized appendages. Certainly the fish of Earth had never amounted to much. How could primitive swimmers hope to engage in interstellar comimerce? Evidently that particular theory was wrong, elsewhere in the galaxy. Still, he wondered just how the Gleeps had circumvented the rapidmotion barrier. Did they live in domes under the ocean? He hoped the patient would not prove to be too alien. Presumably it had teeth; but that might very well be the least of the problems. At any rate, he could draw on whatever knowledge the Enens had, and he had also made sure to bring a second transooder keyed to Gleep. It was awkward to carry two machines, but too much could be lost in retranslation if he had to get the Gleep complaints relayed through the Enens. A monstrous whale-shape loomed in the porthole. The thing spied the sub, advanced, and opened a cavernous maw. "Look out!" he yelled, wishing the driver had ears. The Enen (glanced indifferently at the message-stick and chomped a casual reply. "Everything is in order, Doctor." "But a Leviathan is about to engulf us!" "Naturally. That's a Gleep." stunned. No wonder the citizens couldn't leave the planet! It was a matter of physics, not convention. The vessel was already inside the colossal mouth, and the jaws were closing. "You mean -- you mean this is the patient?" But he already had his answer. Damn those little details the Enens forgot to mention. A whale! The mouth was shut now, and the headlight of the sub speared out to reveal encompassing mountains of flexing flesh. The treads touched land -- probably the tongue -- and took hold. A minute's climb brought them into a great domed air chamlber. They came to a halt beside what reminded him of the white cliffs of Dover. The hatch sprang open, and the Enens piled out. None of them seemed concerned about the possibility that the creature might involthat thought as far from his mind as he was able. His skull seemed determined to hold it in, unfortunately. CC'This is the tooth," the Enen's A message said. The driver pointed to a solid marble boulder. tooth stood about twelve feet high, counting only the distance it projected from the spongy gingival tissue. Much more would be below, of course. "I see," he said. He could think of nothing more pertinent at the moment. He looked at the bag in his hand, which contained an assortment of needlepointed probes, several ounces of instant amalgam and sundry additional staples. In the sub was a portable drill with a heavy-duty needle attachment that could easily excavate a cavity a full inch deep. Well, they had called it a '"big toothache." He just hadn't been alert. They brought forth a light extendible ladder and leaned it against the tooth. They set his drill and transcoders beside it. "Summon us when you're finished," their parting message said. the electronic signal in his pocket. By the time he drew breath to protest, the amphibian was gone. He was alone in the mouth of a monster. Well, he'd been in awkward situations before. He tried once again to close his mind to the horrors that lurked about him and ascended the ladder, holding his lantern aloft. The occlusal surface was about ten feet in diameter. It was slightly concave and worn smooth. In the center was a dark trench about two feet wide and over a yard long. This was obviously the source of the irritation. He walked over to it and looked down. A putrid stench sent him gasping back. Yes -- this was the cavity. It seemed to range from a foot in depth at the edges to four feet in the center. "That," he said aloud, "is a case of dental caries for the record book." IF U nfortunately, he had no record book. All he possessed was a useless bag of implements and a smarting nose. But there was nothing for it, hut to explore the magnitude of the decay. It probably extended laterally within the pulp, so that the total infected area was considerably larger than that visible from above. He would have to check this directyHe forced himself to breathe regularly, though his stomach danced in protest. He stepped down into the cavity. The muck was ankle-deep and the miasma overpowering. He summoned the dregs of his willpower and squatted to poke into the 'bottom with one finger. Under the slime, the surface was like packed earth. He was probably still inches from the material of the tooth itself; these were merely layers of crushed and spoiling food. He remembered long-ago jokes about eating apple-compote, pronouncing the word with an internal "S". Compost. It was not a joke any more. He located a dry area and scuffed it with one foot. Some dark flakes turned up, but no real impression had been made. He wound up and drove his toe into the wall as hard as he could. There was a thunderous roar. He clapped his hands to his ears as the air pressure increased explosively. His footing slipped, and he fell into the reeking center-section of the trench. An avalanche of muck descended upon him. Overhead, himdreds of tons of flesh and bone and gristle crashed down imperiously, seeming ready to crush every particle of matter within its compass into further compost. The jaws were closing. down in sickening garbage, his ears ringing from the atmospheric compression and his body quivering from the mechanical one. The lantern, miraculously, was undamaged and bright, and his own limbs were sound. He sat up, brushed some of the sludge from face and arms and grabbed for the slippery light. He was trapped between clenched jaws -- inside the cavity. Frantically he activated the signal. After an interminable period while he waited in mortal fear of suffocation, the ponderous upper jaw lifted. He scrambled out, dripping. The bag of implements was now a thin layer of color on the surface of the tooth. "Perfect occlusal," he murmured professionally, while shaking in violent reaction to the realization that his fall had narrowly saved him from the same fate. The ladder was gone. Anxious to remove himself from the dangerous biting surface as quickly as possible, he prepared to jump but saw a gigantic mass of tentacles reaching for his portable drill near the base of the tooth. Each tentacle appeared to be thirty feet or more in length and as strong as a python's tail. The biting surface no longer seemed where he was and watched the drill being carried into the darkness of the mouth's center. m In a few more minutes the amphibian vehicle appeared. The Enen driver emerged, chewed a stick, pretranscoder and discovered that it was the wrong one. All he had now was the useless Gleep interpreter. Chagrined, he fiddled with it. At least he could set k to play back whatever the Gleep prince might have said. Perhaps there had been meaning in that roar... machine exclaimed. Ill T he next few hours were complispeak to the Enens via the Gleep muokamuck (after the episode in the cavity, he regretted this nomenclature acutely), who had been summoned for a diagnostic conference. This was accomplished by setting up shop in the creature's communications department. The compartment was actually an offshoot (from the Gleep lung, deep inside the body. It was a huge internal air space with sensitive tentacles bunching from the walls. This was the manner in Which the dominant species of this landless planet had developed fast-moving appendages whose manipulation led eventually to tools and intelligence. An entire technology had developed -- inside the great bodies. "So you see," he said, "I have to have an anesthetic that will do the job and canned air the breathe while I'm working and a power drill that will handle up to an eighteen-indh depth of rock. Also a sledgehammer and a dozen wedges. And a derrick and the following quantities of -- " He went on to make a startling list of supplies. The transcoder sprouted half a dozen tentacles and waved them in a dizzying semaphore. After a moment a group of the wall-tentacles waved back. "It shall be accomplished," the muckamuck reply came. signal had projected the "ouchl" back in the patients mouth. Then it came to him: the tentacles that had absconded with his drill and other transcoder were extensions of the creature's tongue! Naturally they talked. "One Other thing: while you're procuring my equipment, I'd like to IF see a diagram of the internal structure of your molars." "Structure?" The tentacles were agitated. "The pattern of enamel, dentin and pulp, or whatever passes for it in your system. A schematic drawing would do nicely. Or a sagittal section showing both the nerves and the bony socket. That tooth is still quite sensitive, which means the nerve is still alive. I wouldn't want to damage it unnecessarily." "We have no diagrams." you know the anatomy of your teeth? How have you repaired them before?" "We have never had trouble with them ibefore. We have no dentists. That is why we summoned you." He paced the floor of the chamber, amazed. How was it possible for such intelligent and powerful creatures to remain so ignorant of matters vital to their well-being? Never had trouble before? That cavity had obviously been festering for many years. Yet he had faced similar ignorance daily during his Earth practice. "I'll be working blind, in that case," he said at last. You must understand that while I'll naturally do my best, I can not guarantee to save the tooth." "We understand," the deep muckamuck replied contritely. B ack on the tooth (after a stern warning to Junior to keep those jaws apart no matter how uncomfortable things got), equipped with a face mask, respirator, elbow-length began the hardest labor of his life. It was not intellectually demanding or particularly intricate -- just hard. He was vaporizing the festering walls of the cavity with a thirty-pound laser drill, and in half an hour his arms were dead tired. There was lateral extension of the infection. He had to wedge himself into a rotting, diminishing cavern, wielding the beam at arm's length before him. He had to twist the generator sidewise to penetrate every branching side pocket, all the while frankly terrified lest the beam slip and accidently touch part of his own body. He was playing with fire -- a fiery beam that could slice off his arm and puff it into vapor in less than a careless second. At least he thought sweatily, he wasn't going to have to use the sledgehammer here. When he ordered the drill, he had expected a mechanical one similar to those pistons used to break up pavement on Earth. To the deep, however, a drill was a laser beam. This was indeed far superior to what he had had in mind. Deadly, yes -- but real serendipity. Backbreaking hours later it was done. Sterile walls of dentin lined the cavity on every side. Yet this was only the beginning. there in the now-aseptic cavity, roused himself to make careful measurements. He had to be certain that every alley was widest at the opening, and that none were too sharply twisted. Wherever the measurements were unsatisfactory, he drilled away healthy material until the desired configuration had been achieved. He also adjusted the beam for "polish" and wiped away the rough surfaces. H e signaled the Enen sub and indicated by gestures that it was time for the tank of supercolloid. And resolved that next time he went anywhere, he wpuld bring a trunkful of spare transcoders. He had problems enough without translation difficulties. At least he had been able to make clear that they had to send a scout back to the home planet to pick up the bulk supplies. Supercolloid was a substance developed by the ingenious Enens in response to his exorbitant specifications of several months before. He had once entertained the notion that if he were slightly unreasonable, they would ship him home. Instead they had met the specifications exactly and increased his assessed value, neatly adding years to his term of captivity. He became more careful after that -- but the substance remained a prosthodontist's dream. Supercolloid was a fluid, stored under pressure, that set rapidly when released. It held its shape indefinitely without measurable distortion, yet was as flexible as rubber. It was ideal for difficult impressions, since it could give way while being withdrawn and spring immediately back to the proper shape. This saved time and reduced error. At # degrees Fahrenheit it melted suddenly into the thin, transparent fluid from which it started. This was its most important property. very large cast. To begin the complex procedure, he had to fill every crevice of the cavity with colloid. Since the volume of the cleaned cavity came to about forty cubic feet, and supercolloid weighed fifty pounds per cubic foot when set, he required a good two thousand pounds of it, at the very least. A full ton -- to fill a single cavity. "Think big," he told himself. He set up the tank and hauled the long hose into the pit. Once more he crawled headfirst into the lateral expansion, no longer needing the face mask. He aimed the nozzle without fear and squirted the foamy green liquid into the farthest offshoot, making certain that no air spaces remained. He backed off a few feet and filled the other crevices, but left the main section open. IF In half an hour the lateral branch had been simplified considerably. It was now a deep, flat crack without nozzle and crawled in with selected knives and brushes. He cut away proflush with the main crevice wall, and painted purple fixative over each surface. S atisfied at last, he trotted out the colloid hose again and started the pump. This time he opened the nozzle to full aperture and filled the main crevice, backing away as the foam threatened to engulf him. Soon all of the space was full. He smoothed the green wall facing the main cavity and painted it in the same manner as the offshoots. Now he was ready for the big one. So far he had used up about eight cubic feet of colloid, but the gaping center pit would require over thirty feet. He removed the nozzle entirely and let the tank heave itself out. The cavity was rapidly being filled. "Turn it off," he yelled to the Enen by the pump as green foam bulged gently over the rim. One ton of supercolloid filled the tooth, and he was ready to carve it down and insert the special plastic loop in the center. The foam continued to pump. "I Then he remembered that he had no transcoder for Enen. They could neither hear him nor comprehend him. He flipped the hose away from the the tooth. He had no way to cut it off himself, since he had removed the nozzle. There couldn't be much left in the tank. A rivulet of green coursed over the pink tissues, traveling toward the squidlike tongue. The tentacles reached out, grasping the foam as it solidified. They soon became festooned in green. long. There was a steamwhistle sigh followed by a violent tremor of the entire jaw. "I'm going to... sneeze," the deep transcoder said, sounding fuzzy. The colloid was interfering with the articulation of the Gleep's tongue. A sneeze! Suddenly he realized what that would mean to him and the Enen crew. "Get under cover!" he shouted to the Enens, again forgetting that they couldn't perceive the warning. But they had already grasped the significance of the tremors and were piling into the sub frantically. "Hey -- wait for me!" But he was too late. The air howled by with the titanic intake of breath. There was a terrible pause. of colloid and dug his fingers into the almost-solid substance. "Keep your jaws apart!" he yelled at the Gleep, praying it could still pick up EN!" The sound of a tornado raged out of its throat. He buried his face in green as the hurricane struck, wrenching mercilessly at bis body. His arms were wrenched cruelly; his fingers tore through the infirm colloid, slipping... IV T he wind died, leaving him gasping at the edge of the tooth. He had survived it. The jaws had not closed. He looked up. The upper cuspids hung only ten feet above, visible in the light from the charmed lamp hooked somehow to his foot. He was past the point of reaction. "Open, please," he called in his best operative manner, hoping the transcoder was still in the vicinity, and went to peer over the edge. There was no sign of he sub. The tank, with its discharging hose, was also gone. H took a walk across the neighboring teeth, looking for whatever there was to see. He was appalled at the amount of decalcification and outright decay in evidence. This deep child would shortly be in pain again, unless substantial restorative work was done immediately. But in a shallow cavity -- one barely a foot deep -- he found the transcoder. "It's an ill decalcification that bodes nobody good," he murmured, retrieving it. The sub reappeared and disgorged its somewhat shaken passengers. Dillingham marched back over the rutted highway and joined them. But the question still nagged his mind: how could the caries he had observed be reconciled with the muckamuck's undoubtedlysincere statement that there had never been dental trouble before? What had changed? He carved the green surface into an appropriate pattern and carefully applied his fixitive. He was ready for the next step. Now the derrick was brought up its dangling hook into the eyelet set in the colloid and signalled the Enen operator to lift. The chain went taut; the mass of solidified foam eased grandly out of its socket and hung in the air, an oddly-shaped boulder. He turned his attention to the big screw eyelet and arranged a pulley so that the derrick could act on it effectively. The purple fixative had prevented the surface of the main impression from attaching to that of the subsidiary one -- just as it was also protecting the several smaller branches within. There was no real trouble. In due IF course every segment of the impression was marked and laid out in the makeshift laboratory he had set up near the waterlift of the Gleep's mouth. They were ready for one more step. T he tank of prepared investment arrived. This, too was a special composition. It remained fluid until triggered by a particular electric jolt, whereupon it solidified instantly. Once solid, it could not be affected by anything short of demolition by a sledgehammer. to a great temporary vat. He attached a plastic handle to the smallest impression, dipped it into the vat, withdrew it entirely covered by white batter and touched the electrode to it. He handed the abruptly solid object to the nearest Enen. Restorative procedure on deep differed somewhat from established Earth technique. All it took was a little human imagination and Enen technology. The octopus-tongue approached while he worked. It reached for him. "Get out of here or I'll cram you into the burnout furnace!" he snapped into the transcoder. The tongue retreated. The major section was a problem. It barely fit into the vat, and a solid foot of it projected over the top. He finally had the derrick lower it until it bumped bottom, then raise it a few inches and hold it steady. He passed out brushes, and he and the Enen crew went to work slopping the goo over the top and around the suspending hook. He touched the electrode to tihe white monster. The derrick lifted the mass, letting the empty vat fall free. Yet another stage was done. Two ovens were employed for the burnout. Each was big enough for a man to stand within. They placed the ends of the plastic rods into special holders and managed to fit all of the smaller units into one oven, fastening them into place by means of a heat-resistant framework. The main chunk sat in the other oven, propped upside-down. They sealed the ovens and set their thermostats for # degrees. Dillingham lay down in the empty vat and slept. T hree hours later burnout was over. Even supercolloid took time to melt completely when heated in a # pound mass. But now the green liquid had been drained into reservoirs and sealed away, while the smaller quantities of melted plastic were allowed to collect in a disposal vat. The white investments were hollow shells, open only where the plastic rods had project. The casting was the most spectacto use gold, though worried that its high specific gravity would overbalance the Gleep jaw. It was impossible under present conditions to arrange for a gold-pIated, matching-density enough with other metals to be sure they were adaptable to his purpose. The expansion coefficient of his investment matched that of gold exactly, for example; anything else would solidify into the wrong size. Gold, at any rate, was nothing to the muckaimuck; his people refined it through their gills, extracting it from the surrounding water on order in any quantity. The crucible arrived: a self-propelled boilerlike affair. They piled hundred-pound ingots of precise gold alloy into the hopper, while the volcanic innards of the crucible rumbled and belched and melted everything to rich bright liquid. A line of Enens carried the smaller investments, which were shaped inside exactly like the original impressions, to the spigot and held them with tongs while the fluid fortune poured in. These were carefully deposited in the vat, now filled with cold water. The last cast, of course, was the colossal vat-shaped one. This was simply propped up under the spigot while the tired crew kept feeding in ingots. 'By the time this cast had been poured, twenty-four tons of gold had been used in all. While the largest chunk was being hauled to the opean inside the front the smaller investments and laid out the casts according to his chart of the cavity. He gave each a minimum of finishing; on so gross a scale, it could hardly make much difference. The finished casts weighed more than twenty times as much as the original colloid impressions had, and even the smallest ones were distinctly awkward to maneuver into place. He marked them, checked off their positions on his chart and had the Enens ferry them up with the derrick. At the other end, he manhandled each into its proper place, verified its fit and position and withdrew it to paint it with cement. No part of tion. O nce again the branching cavern lost its projections, this time permanently, as each segment was secured and severed from its projecting sprue. He kept the sprues -- the handles of gold, the shape of the original plastic handles -- on until the end, because otherwise there would have been no purchase on the weighty casts. He had to have some handle to adjust them. The derrick lowered the orevicepiece into the cavity. Two Enens pried it in with power crowbars. IF cement over the mass as it slid reluctantly into the hole. It was necessary to attach a heavy weight to the derrick-hook and swing it repeatedly against the four-ton cast in order to tamp it in all the way. At last it was time for the major assembly. Nineteen tons of gold descended slowly into the hole while they dumped quarts of liquid cement into a pool below. The cast touched bottom and settled into place, while the cement bubbled up around the edges and overflowed. They danced a little jig on top of ing that a fraction of its value in Earth terms could be credited to his purchase-price. The job was over. V a A commendable performance," the high muckamuck said. "My son is frisking about in his pen like a regular tadpole and eating well." had seen during the walk along the occlusal surfaces. "I'm afraid he won't be frisking long. In another year or two he'll be feeling half a dozen other caries. Decay is rampant." "You mean this will happen again?" The tentacles waved so violently that the transcoder stuttered. by the tail. "Are you still trying to tell me that no member of your species has suffered dental caries before this time?" "Never." This still did not make sense. "Does your son's diet differ in any important respect from yours, or from that of other children?" "My son is a prince!" "Meaning he can eat whatever he wants, whether it is good for him or not?" The Gleep paused. "He gets so upset if he doesn't have his way. He's only a baby -- hardly three centuries old." differing standards. "Do you feed him delicacies -- refined foods?" "Naturally. Nothing but the best." He sighed. "Muckamuck, my people also had perfect teeth -- until they began consuming sweets and overly refined foods. Then dental caries became the most common disease among them. You're going to have to curb your boy's appetite." "I couldn't." He could almost read the agitation of the tentacles without benefit of translation. "He'd throw a terrible tantrum." He had expected this reaction. He'd encountered it many times on Earth. "In that case, you'd better begin training a crew of dentists. Your son will require constant attention." "But we can't do such work ourselves. We have no suitable appendages, externally." "Import some dentists, then. You have no alternative." The creature signaled a sigh. "You make a convincing case." The tentacles relaxed while it thought. Suddenly they came alive again. "Enen -- it seems we need a permanent thought of all that garbage in the ly creatures of principle, patient's jaw. Surely they couldn't -- "We're prepared to offer a full "Sell him!" the Enen chief reton of superlative-grade frumpstiggle how he was able to understand the ticingly. words, then realized that his trans"A full ton? The Enens were coder was picking up the Gleep sigaghast. Then, recovering: 'True, the nals translated by the other machine. Earthman has taught us practically From Enen to Gleep to English, via all he knows. We could probably get paired machines. Why hadn't he along without him now... " "This is a human being," the Enen shouted; but the bargaining contincontinued indignantly. "A member ued unabated. of an intelligent species dwelling far After all -- what is the value of across the galaxy. He is the only exa man, compared to frumpstiggle? odontist in this entire sector of space and a fine upstanding fellow, at that. How dare you make such a crass I -- Complete in This Issuel I by Larry Niven I by Robert Silverberg # IF IF  Serial These people couldn't be breathing water a mile under the sea -- but the facts were clear. They were! What has gone before T hree of my friends had disappeared in a single small area of the Pacific, just north of Easter Island. Like me, all worked for the Power Board, the group which was responsible for rationing man's severely limited supply of energy and which was, because of that fact, practically the world government. Bert Wehlstrahl had vanished a year before, and Joey Elfven ten months later. Marie Wladetzky had gone two weeks after Joe, presumably in search of him, and I was principally interested in finding Marie. (Don't ask for my name; ifs bad enough to have to listen to it occasionally, and Pm certainly not going to put it in print.) Since the two men were police workers of a sort, it was likely that their disappearance was not accidental, so my first step was to search the ocean bottom in the key area from a camouflaged vantage point -- actually one of the spherical escape tanks used in ordinary cargo submarines, somewhat modified for my purpose, I found evidence of rationing violation the moment I reached the bottom --  almost landed on it, A mile down there was an area actually lighted artificially and apparently concealed under a flat, translucent surface which I interpreted as some sort of fabric. Seeing energy wasted to light the outside of a tent roof was bad enough; the sight of a swimmer in what looked like ordinary scuba gear under five thousand feet of sea water was far worse. The technological capacity so demonstrated suggested something much more serious than an ordinary blackmarket energy gang. My tank was not very maneuverable, but I managed to get myself 'captured" and towed to an entrance to the undersea base. Here I dropped to sonar transponder, which should guide Board enforcement forces to the spot, released my ballast and headed for the surface with the comfortable certainty that the swimmers could not follow far because of the pressure gradient. This belief proved wrong. One of them hung onto my tank and by pounding on it was able to guide a sub to the scene. After doing my best to get the nearly helpless tank away, I was really captured and dragged back to the bottom.The tank was brought to a lighted pit in the ocean floor. There were no door or air locks. The swimmers, who had loaded my tank with enough ballast to keep it down even if they lost hold again, towed me into a tunnel which led from the entrance pit, along it for a short distance, and into a flooded room. Then they removed their helmets. I t must be bvious from the things I've already said that I'm no psychologist, though I've read a little about the field. I've been told that it's possible for a person to deny flatly and categorioally the evidence of own senses, if their reports disagree violently enough with what he thinks he knows. In fact I've met people who claim that the ability to do this is all that keeps most of us sane. Until that moment, I'd doubted both statements. Now I'm not so sure. I'd seen us come in from definite, obvious sea-bottom conditions to the place where we now were. I 'had not seen anything even remotely like a door, valve or lock either open before us or close ibehind us, and I had certainly been looking for one. To the best of my knowledge and belief, therefore, my tank was now in a room full of sea water at a pressure corresponding roughly to a mile's depth. I had seen ithe people now in the chamber around me swimming in the sea outside -- the same people, for the most part. I had seen them, continually or nearly so, as they brought me in. They, too, were still IF in high-pressure water and had been all along. I was forgetting for the moment the clarity with which I had been able to see those same faces in the water outside, but even if I'd remembered I probably wouldn't have seen the relevance just then. I had seen them remove the helmets, just now, still apparently in high-pressure water. No, I couldn't believe all of that at once. I was missing something, but I couldn't believe it was recently an observable fact. I'd been battered around during the storm and had certainly missed the technique which had been used in finding me, but I hadn't been unconscious, then or later. I was short on sleep, but surely not so dazed by it as to have missed any major happenings. I had to believe that my observations were reasonably complete. Since I was, in spite of that belief, clearly out of phase with reality, there was something I just plain didn't know. It was time for more education. I wasn't too worried about my personal future; if there had been any intent to dispose of me, it could have been done earlier with much less trouble -- and as I've said before, I couldn't believe, deep down, that people would do anything final to me anyway. If you think that doesn't jibe with the way I've admitted I felt a few minutes before, you ask a psychiatrist. I had a couple of days of breathing still in the tank, and presumably before that time was up my new acquaintances would do something about getting me out -- though I couldn't offhand see what it would be, now that I thought of the piroblem. Any way I looked at it, though, the next move seemed up to them. Maybe that shouldn't have been comforting, but it was. Apparently they felt the same way -- not comforted, I mean, but that they should be doing something. They were gathered in a group between the tank and the door we had come through, apparently arguing some point. I couldn't hear their voices, and after a minute or two I decided they weren't actually talking; there was a tremendous amount of gesticulation. They must have a pretty comprehensive sign language, I decided. This was reasonable if they spent much of itiheir time, and especially if they did much of their work', under water. I couldn't see why they used it now, since  my common sense was having trouble admitting that they were still in water. In any case, they seemed (to reach an agreement after a few minutes, and two of them went swimming -- yes, swimming -- off down one of the smaller shafts. I t occured to me that even if they couldn't talk under the circumstances, they should be able to hear. So I tried tapping on the walls of the tank to get their attention -- gently, in view of my experience with tank-tapping so shortly before. Evidently they coud hear, though they had the expected' difficulty in judging the direclion of the sound source and it took them a few minutes to recognize that I was responsible. Then they swam over and gathered around the tank, looking in through the ports. I turned on my inside lights again. None of them seemed surprised ait what they saw, though a continuous and animated gesture conversation was kept up. I tried yelling. It was hard on my own ears, since most of the sound echoed from the walls of the tank, but at least a little should get through. It evidently did; several of them shook their Jieads at me, presumably indicating that .they couldn't understand me. Since I hadn't used any words yet, this wasn't surprising. I tried telling them who I was -- not using my name, of course -- in each of the three languages in which I'm supposed to be proficient. I attempted to do the same in a couple of others in which I make no claim of skill. All I got was the headshaking, and two or three people swam away, presumably dismissing me as a hopeless case. No one made any obvious attempt to communicate with me by any sort of sign or sound. Eventually I felt my throat getting sore, so I stopped. For another ten minutes or so nothing much happened. Some more of the crowd swam away, but others arrived. There was more of the gesture talk; no doubt the newcomers were being given whatever there was to tell about me. AH the new arrivals wore coveralls more or less like those I'd first seen outside, but some of these were in fancy colors. I got the impression that it was the difference between work clothes and whitecollar suits, though I can't give any objective reason for the notion. Then some new swimmers, less completely dressed, appeared from one of ithe tunnels, and things began to happen. One of them worked his way through what was by now quite a crowd, came up to the tank, and tapped it gently. It was refreshing to have one of them try to get my attention instead of the other way around, but the real jolt came when I recognized the newcomer. It was Bert Whelstrahl, who had disappeared a year before. IX H e recognized me, too; there was no doubt about that. He put on a larger-thandif e-size grin the moment he got a good look through my port, gave another bit of knuckle play on the tank and then drew back and raised one eyebrow in an oh-no-what-do-we-do-with-.thisone expression. I decided the situation justified using up what was left of my voice and called out, "Bert! Can you hear me?" He nodded, and made a palmdown gesture which I interpreted as meaning that I didn't need to yell so loud. That was a relief. I cut volume and after a bit of trial and error found that he could hear me when I spoke only a little louder than a normal conversational tone. I began to ask questions, but he held up a hand to stop me and began making some more signs. He pinched his nose shut, holding the palm of his hand over his mouth at the same time; then he held this left wrist in front of his face as though he were looking at a watch, though he wasn't wearing one. ; IF I got his meaning dearly enough. He wanted to know how much breathing time I had left. I checked my panel, did a 'little mental arithmetic and called out that there was about fifty hours still in my tanks. Then he stuck a finger in his mouth and raised his eyebrows; I answered graphically, which was easier on my throat, by holding up the partly emptied box of dextrose pills. He nodded and put on a thoughtful expression. Then he handtalked for two or three minutes to the people nearest him, the head motions which they threw in occasionally being the only part I could understand. With everyone seemingly agreed, he waved at me and vanished back into the tunnel he'd come from. Nothing more happened for the next half hour, except that the crowd grew even larger. Some of the newcomers were women, though I couldn't tell whether the one I had seen outside was among them. I hadn't seen her closely enough to recognize her face. Some of them certainly weren't; apparently swimming doesn't have to be the aid to figure control some people claim it to be. Then Bert came back. He was carrying what looked like an ordinary clip board, but when he held it up to the port I saw that the sheets on it weren't paper. He scratched on the top one with a stylus, which left a mark. Then he lifted the top sheet, and the mark disappeared. I'd seen toys of that sort years ago; apparently he'd spent some time improvising this one. It seemed a good and obvious solution to the problem of writing llujcr water, and I wondered why luoiie of the others had thought of it He had to print fairly large letters in order for me to read clearly, so even with the aid of the pad our communication was slow. I started by asking what the whole business was about, which didn't help speed, either. Bert cut me off on one. "There isn't time to give the whole story now," he wrote. 'You have a decision to make ibefore you run out of air -- at least twenty hours before, in fact. It has to do with whether you go back to the surface." was surprised and made no secret of it. "You mean they'd let me go back? Why did they go to all that trouble to get me down here? I was already at the surface." "Because your decision and its details will affect a lot of people and you should know who and how. They didn't know you were a Board official until I told them, but it was obvious your story when you got back would get to the Board anyway. It's rather important just what the Board hears about this place." "I suppose it's a case of being released if I promise to tell nothing. You know I couldn't do that." "Of course not. I couldn't either. That's not what they expect. They realize you couldn't go back without telling; there would be no rational explanation of w'here you'd been or why. You can tel'l everything that's happened to you and that you've seen, but there are other things they want to be sure you include. We must make sure you know them." I jumped on the pronoun. "You switched from '(they' to 'we.' Does that mean you've chosen to stay down here yourself?" "Yes." This was a nod, not a written word. "For a while, anyway," he added with the stylus. "Then you've managed to stomach the morals of a bunch of people who waste thousands of kilowatts just lighting up the sea bottom? Have you forgotten your upbringing, and why -- " He interrupted me with a violent shake of his head and began to write. "It's not like that. I know it looks terrible, but it's no more wasting power (than the Board is wasting the sunlight that falls on the Sahara. Maybe there'll be time to explain more before you decide, but you're enough of a physicist to see that analogy or you wouldn't be a Board worker in the first place." I spent some (time digesting that one. The Sahara point was understandable. The Board has always resented having to let all that solar energy go unused. Their stock difficulty, of course, is deciding when it's worth while to put energy into a project in the hope of getting more back'. It's been the standard belief for decades that man's only real hope lies in hydrogen fusion, and most of the authorized speculative expenditure is for research in this direction. From time to time, though, a very eloquent plea for a solar-energy project comes in. Sometimes an especially promising one gets approved, and one or two of these have even paid off since I've been working for the outfit. I couldn't see, though, how natural sunlight shining on a desert could compare with artificial light shining on the Sea bottom. I said so. He shrugged, and began to write. # #'The energy here comes from A below the crust -- straight heat, though I can't properly call it volcanic heat. If they don't keep their working fluid circulating down to the collector and get the heat out of it when it comes back up, the hot end of the unit will melt. Your real complaint, if you must have one, is that they don't tie into the planetary power net and observe the rationing rules like everyone else. The reasons they don't are very good, but there isn't time to give them now -- they call for a lot of history and technology which would take forever by this scribble-board. What I'm supposed to tell you is what you have to know if you go back up." "I take it that Joey and Marie decided to stay down here." "Joey hasn't been here. Marie doesn't believe me when I tell her that and is still arguing. No decision has been made in her case." "But if Marie is still here withr her future unsettled, why did you say I have to make up my mind in thirty hours or so? She's been down here for weeks. Obviously you have facilities to take care of us." "We don't 'have' them. They were made especially for her, as far as food and air are concerned. She's still living in her sub. It would take more work to get supplies iinto your tank, whidh doesn't have locks or air-charging valves. Besides, you're not in quite as good a position as Marie to have people go out of their way for your convenience." "Why not?" "You're neither female nor goodlooking." I had no answer to that. "All right," was al I could say. "Tell me the official word, then. What am I supposed to know if I go back?" "You're to make sure your boss on the Board knows that we do have a large energy supply down here -- " 'That I'd tell him anyway." " -- and that it isn't being rationed." "That's also pretty obvious. Why do you want those points stressed? I can't think of any better way to get this place raided." "Believe me, it wouldn't be. If the Board thought this was just another hunch of powerleggers you'd be right, of course; but fifteen thousand people don't make a gang. They make a nation, if you remember the word." "Not pleasantly." "Well, never mind that phase of history. The point is that the Board has hushed up this thing in the past and can be counted on to do it again if they know what they're doing." # T Tush it up? You're crazy. A A They'd do just one thing to an operating power plant, even if it was illegally built. They'd tie it into the network. The idea that they'd let it go on running independently, outside rationing, is dithering." "Why do you suppose you never heard of this place before? It's been here eighty years or more." "I would suppKse because nobody's found it. That's likely enough. The bottom of the Pacific isn't the most thoroughly covered real estate on the planet." "It's been found many times. Several in the past year, if you'll stop to remember. Twelve times that I've heard of since this place was built it has been reported to the Board as a finished, operating project. Nothing further has come of it." "You mean the Board knows where this thing is and still lets me come looking for you and -- " "They may not know the location. I'm not sure the present Board knows anything; I don't know whait was done with the earlier recordsi by their predecessors. The last time was over fifteen years ago." "You know all this for fact?" "Objectively, no. I've read it in what seem credible reports. I'm not qualified as a historical researcher and didn't make professional tests. It all seems very probable to me." "It doesn't to me. Have you told ail this to Marie?" "Yes." "Does she believe it?" "She doesn't believe anything I say since I told her that Joey has never been here. She claims I'm a dirty liar and a traitor to mankind and an immoral skunk and that we disposed of Joe because he wouldn't swallow our ridiculous falsehood." IF "Would I be able to talk to her?" "You'd have my blessing, but I don't see how. She's a long way from here, since her sub arrived at a different entrance. I don't think it would be possible to get your tank there without taking you outside again; it would take longer than you can spare, and I'd have trouble finding enough people to get you carried. "Can't whoever runs this place assign a crew?" "How do you think we're run? There isn't anyone who could order a person to do such a thing, since it's more for your pleasure and convenience than public necessity. Besides, I told you there isn't time." I pvondered that for a little while. His remark about how the installation was run was a little surprising, but this was hardly the time to go into local poilitics. He'd started to give me a more interesting impression, anyway; if what he'd said could be credited, it seemed almost as though it would be 'better for these people if Marie and I left than if we stayed. Why was the choice being offered, ithen? I asked Bert, a little indirectly. "What will your friends do if I don't go back up? More people will come to look for me, you know. Even if I hadn't reached the surface and started my rescue set, which I did, the Board knows where I was going and why." He shrugged again. "No one cares how many come down. Unless there's a whole fleet at once, we can pull 'em iiQ land jgive them the same ohoioo we're living you. It's happened often enough, as I jsd." "And suppose a whole fleet does come and starts wrecking those lights and that tent or whatever it is without wasting time looking for me or Marie or anyone else? Sooner or later if folks keep disappearing down here that's what will happen." "I'm not m on all the thoughts of the Council here," he answered, "and I don't know whether they've thought much of (that point. I repeat, there have been quite a few people who stayed down here without getting the Board very excited. Personally, I think they'd just put this part of the Pacific off limits to the general public long before they'd waste energy sending a fleet of subs down here. In any case, that's the Council's worry. The current point is that you and Marie do have the choice and will have to make it of your own free will." "What if I refuse to commit myself?" "Once you've been told what is necessary, we'M simply turn you loose at the gate you came in by. You're hardly in a position to hang on and refuse to go up. No problem." He gestured toward the direction from which we had come along the tunnel. "Speaking for myself, I'd like to have you stay -- and Marie, of course. I do have some good friends down here now, but they're not quite the same as old ones." I thought for a few seconds more and then tried to catch his eye through the poUrt I asked the "JMfe did you decide to stay dowtt jper He tiw#y shook his head. "Yqu mean it's too long to explain now, or you don't want to tell me, or something else?" I persisted. He held up one finger, then three, but still wrote nothing. "In other words, I'm going to have to make up my mind entirely on my own." He nodded emphatically. "And Marie, too?" He nodded again. I could think of only one more question likely to be helpful, and I threw it at him. "Bert, could you go back up above now if you changed your mind about staying? Or is what they did to let you breathe water impossible to reverse?" H e smiled and used the stylus again. "We're not breathing water; that analysis misses on two counts. They did make an irreversible change, but it's not a very serious one. I could still live at the surface, though the sihift back to air "breathing would be somewhat lengthy and complicated." "You just said you weren't breathing water!" "I repeat it. I'm not." 'ut you just said -- " He held up hand to stop me and began writing again. "I'm not trying to tantalize you. The Council isn't dictatorial by nature, or even very firm, but it feels iongly and unanimousily that the ido details of how we live here shouldn't be discussed wiith. anyone who hasn't committed himself to staying. I may have said moire than they'd strictly like already, and I'm not going any farther.' "Do e people out there with you disagree with the Council?" "No. The feding on that point is pretty uniform among the populace." "Then why did you take the chance of telling me as much as you did?" "Most of them were in no position to see what I wrote, none of them could have read it, and none of them can understand your spoken words." "Then the native language here isn't -- " "It isn't." He'd cut me off again with a wave of his 'hand before I even named a language. "Then why do you worry about disobeying this Council on the matter of telling me things?" "Because I think they're perfectly right." That was a hard one to argue, and I didn't try. After a minute or so, he wrote another message. "I have work to do and have to go now, but I'll be back every hour or two. If you really need me bady, pound on your tank -- not too hard, please. Even if no one is in sight, which isn't likely, you can be heard for a long distance, and someone will send for me. Think it over carefully; I'd like you to stay, but not if you're not sure you want to." He laid the clip board down beside the tank, and IF swam off. Quite a few of the others also disappeared, though they didn't all take the same tunnel. The small number remaining seemed to be those who had arrived most recently and hadn't yet given their eyes a real fill of the tank. They did nothing either interesting or distracting, though, and I was able to buckle down to heavy thinking. There was plenty of it to do, and Tm rather slow at the business sometimes. T here was no problem about the decision, of course. Naturally I would have to go back to report. Staying here might, as Bert had said, merely pass the buck to another investigator, but sending another one down would be a clear waste of power no matter what trick they dreamed up to get him there. Also, I wasn't nearly as sure as Bert seemed to be that the Board wouldn't waste a few tons of explosive on this place if they found it and had reason to believe it had killed off three of their agents. The problem was not whether to go back, but when; and the "when" depended on what I could manage to do first. What I wanted to do was make' contact with Marie. It would also be nice to find out more about Joey, if information of any sort was to be had. I didn't want to believe that Bert had lied about him, and it was certainly possible that Marie's disbelief stemmed from her reluctance to accept the idea that Joe had disappeared in a genuine accident. On the other hand, she was by no means stupid. I had to allow for the possibility that she might have better reasons for doubting Bert. Joe, like Marie, had had a oneman sub. He could have found out things these people did not want known at the surface. After all, what they seemed to want Marie and me to carry back if we went was information, or propaganda, designed to discourage the Board from checking further. But wait a minute. That was true only if Bert were right about the Board's preferring to hide the word of what went on down here. If he were wrong -- if my own admittedly prejudiced idea of the reaction were closer to the truth -- there'd be no question of suppression, and the Board would be down raiding this place within a day of (the time either of us got back. That could hardly be wanted by this "Council" Bert was talking about. Maybe there really was something in what he had said. But there still could be things these people didn't want known, whether they were feeding Bert a line about the Board or not. Joey could be here or could have been killed, though the latter went very much against the grain to believe. Even if Bert had been right about his never arriving -- perhaps especially if he were -- there was Marie to worry about, too. If she were feeling stubborn she'd never leave of her own free wDl, and they couldn't just turn her loose to float up, the way they could me. She had a sub. Of course, now that I was here they could cripple her boat, make sure it was low on ballast, and turn us adrift at the same time; maybe I should wait for that. Maybe -- If you're getting confused by the way I tell all this you have an idea of the way I felt. If you remember that my memory has done some editing and organizing since all this actually happened, you may have an even better idea.' It got to be more than I felt like taking. I suddenly realized that I hadn't had much sleep for a long, long time. The tank wasn't a comfortable place for that, but there are times when one doesn't bother with trifles. I slep. X I got in a good, solid eight hours, according to the clock. When I woke up, it was with the conviction that I couldn't plan anything until I had figured out how these people managed to live as they did, what would have to be done to me if I agreed to stay and most particularly what I would have to arrange to do myself if, after agreeing to stay and being processed, I chose to leave. Bert had made it clear that he wasn't going to tell me, but he had admitted saying a little more than he should have, so there might be a chance of my figuring it out for myself. My memory is supposed to be good. Just what had he said that might mean anything? The most striking remark was his denial that he was breathing water. Also, there had been something else in that sentence -- what was it? -- "that analysis misses on two counts." What could that mean? Grammatically speaking, the most obvious implication of the first phrase was that the liquid now around us wasn't water. Was this possible? And if it were, was there any other evidence? Yes, to both. Many liquids don't mix well with water -- non-polar liquids in general. Carbon tetrachloride and all the oils, to name familiar ones. However, if this were such a liquid it must be at least as dense as water and probably denser. Not the general run of oils, therefore. Not carbon tet, either, since it's highly poisonous. The density had to be high because there was no door or valve between this place and the ocean, and oil would have floated to the surface of the Pacific and been spotted long ago. On that basis, the interface between water and my hypothetical liquid would probably be at the entrance. Memory supported the idea. As the tank had reached the level of the pit's mouth on the way in, the subs had hooked more ballast to it -- obviously necessary if the new liquid were denser than water and the tank were just barely heavy enough to sink in the latter. The swimmers, too, had taken on more ballast -- those "tool kits!" Of course. If they had been tools, why put them on coming in from the sea bottom? Or if outside were a IF place for recreation only and tools Vere only used inside, why not keep them at the place they were used? If there had been room in the tank, I'd have kicked myself for not seeding that sooner -- or rather, for not following up the doubts I had had at the time. All right, first working hypothesis. We're in a non-polar, nonpoisonous liquid, somewhat denser than water. I think I see why, but let's not be too hasty. So that was the second point on which my analysis had been wrong. The people, as Bert had said, weren't breathing water -- because they weren't in water and because they weren't breathing. I still had trouble believing it, but the logic went marching on. T he basic idea was clear enough. If people didn't breathe, they didn't need gas in their lungs. If they didn't have gas in their lungs, they wouldn't be bothered by pressure changes. Well, qualify that. They'd have to fill their middle ears and sinuses with liquid, too. If the liquid had about the same compressibility as water (question: why not use water? Tabled for later consideration) then a change in depth would mean no significant volume change in any part of the j#ody. though. Granted that it would be convenient to be able to do without t)reathing, how was it managed? Well, why does one breathe, anyway? To get oxygen into the blood. Will anything do as a substitute for oxygen. Categorically no. E'emenc number eight is the one and only, oxidizing agent the human metabolism is geared to use -- and "geared" is a rather good word in thac connection. But does the oxygen have to come in gas form? Maybe not. If my schooling hasn't gone by the board, hemoglobin is only interested in Otwo molecules, not oxide or peroxide ions or ozone; but up to the time the stuff is delivered to the hemoglobin some of the others are at least conceivable. The first thought would be some sort of food or drink. Could something be taken into the stomach which would release oxygen molecules? Certainly. There was hydrogen peroxide. The oxygen released didn't start as diatomic molecules, though it got to that state quickly enough. I couldn't picture anyone in his right mind drinking a slug of peroxide, for several reasons, but the principle seemed defendable so far. Could the oxygen get from the stomach to the blood stream? Not directly, but it could take the same path as the other foods. Into the I seemed to remember that there is a lot less absorbing surface here than in the lungs, but under the pressure of this depth that might not be a serious lack. Working hypothesis two, therefore, is that these folks eat or drink something that gives off oxygen gradually. If, under this pressure, the gas always remained in solution, the body would still be relatively indifferent to pressure change. Though my outside passenger of a few hours back might have been in serious trouble after all if he'd gone all the way to the surface with me. How about carbon dioxide elimination? No problem. Out through the lungs, as usual, and into immediate solution in the surrounding liquid. Maybe that was why the liquid wasn't water; they might be using something that took up CO# better, though under this pressure water certainly should be adequate. Of course, with body fluids under the same pressure, it might be more a matter of complex ion equilibrium than simple solubility; perhaps pH control had been necessary. It certainly was inside the body, and this whole idea seemed to be lessening the differences between inside and out. A ll this suggested that if I chose to stay down here, they would presumably start pressurizing me. Sometime during the process I'd be given a meal, or a drink, of the oxygen source. That, as far as I could see, would be it, barring minor nuses and middle ears with liquid. How about getting back to breathing habits? The pressure would have to come down again. The oxygen source in the stomach -- yes, that would present a difficulty. If it were still giving off the stuff, and pressure got down near one atmosphere -- hmph. Very close timing, doing the job just as the stomach oxygen ran out? Mechanical assistance such as .an artificial lung between the time the inside source gave out and natural breathing was resumed? Either way, it would be difficult for me to manage alone, if the need ever arose. In any case, I could now do some tentative planning, always realizing my hypothesis might be all wet. I was fond of them, though, and felt that it would be at most a case of having to modify details as more information came in. It was a pleasant sensation while it lasted. Under the circumstances, then, it seemed best to tell Bert that I was staying and waste as little time as possible getting out of this bubble so I could do something useful. I'd developed my own moral standards -- made my private Loyalty Oath to Mankind, if you like -- long ago, so there'd be no conscience question if they wanted me to make some sort of local declaration before they'd accept me. Probably they wouldn't; things like that had been worn too thin to be meaningful back in the days when people thought their chief danger was political difference rather than energy shortage. Lodges and similar private groups still used formal oaths, but even these didn't carry quite the same implications that they used to. I wondered suddenly why my mind was wandering off in that direction -- after all, my plan might be a little deceitful, but it was in a good cause, and my conscience was clear enough -- and got back to immediate problems. Details, of course, would still have , to wait. I'd have to learn the local geography, especially the way to Marie's submarine. I'd have to find IF out just how much freedom of action I was going to be allowed. Bert seemed to come and go at will, but he'd been here for a year. In that connection, probably I'd be expected to earn my living in some fashion; if finding out the details I needed and working up a plan to get Marie and me back to the surface, all took very long then I'd probably have to do something of the sort. What sort of work would be both useful down here and within my powers was something else for the future to tell. Right now, then, the thing to do was wait for Bert, or send for him, and give him the word. Waiting would probably be better. There was no point in looking too eager. He'd said he'd be around often, and no doubt had been while I was asleep. He'd be bound to expect me to wake up before long. I waited, like a monkey in a zoo -- or perhaps more like a fish in an aquarium. XI I t was about half an hour before he .showed up. He glanced in through one of the ports, saw that I was conscious and picked up the writing pad. "Been doing any thinking?" was his opener. I nodded affirmatively. "Good. Made up your mind?" I hesitated. Part of it was for effect, but part of it was genuine uncertainty. I could be wrong in so many ways. Then I stiffened up. "I'm staying." He looked a little surprised and started to write. I went on before he had finished. "At least. I'm staying if you can tell me one thing for certain." He cleared his pad and looked at me expectantly. "Do you genuinely believe -- I'm not asking do you know, just do you believe -- that these people are justified in keeping out of the power net and the rationing system?" Bert's face took on an annoyed expression as he wrote. "I told you you'd have to make up your mind by yourself. I won't take the responsibility." "I expect to make it up myself," I retorted, "but not without data. You say there's too little time for you to tell me everything I'd like to know, and I'm arguing that. I'm asking for a conclusion of yours, not even a piece of information you're not supposed to give me, just a conclusion -- an opinion -- as a summary of information I can't get. Did you make your decision on as little knowledge as I have now?" He shook his head negatively. "Then I'm sorry if you read my question as a reflection on your morals, but I still want an answer." He frowned thoughtfully for half a minute or so and looked at me a little doubtfully. I repeated my question, to be sure he understood. "I really do believe they have the right idea," he wrote at last. I nodded. "All right, then I'm staying. How long will it take to get me out of this coconut shell?" "I don't know." His writing was slow and interrupted by pauses for thought. "It's not what you'd call a standard procedure. We're more used to our guests coming in submarines, whidh have pressure locks or at least some sort of port. I'll tell the Council, and we'll hunt up some engineers who have time to spare. I'm sure it can be done." "You mean -- you mean it may take a long time? Suppose it takes longer than my air supply?" "Then I suppose we'll just have to shove you outdoors anyway. If you still want to badly enough, you can always come back in a sub, the way Marie did. I'll go start things moving." "But why didn't you mention this before? I thought -- well -- " "Some things really shouldn't need mentioning. Where in the world would you expect to find ready-made equipment for taking a man out of a high-pressure escape shell while it was still in a highpressure environment? Think it over." He put down the pad and was gone before I could think of a good answer to that one. In fact he had come back, nearly an hour later, before I could think of one. I still haven't B ert, on his return, had better news than I had been afraid he might. The Council, or such of them as he had found -- I was getting on idea that it was a body of rather fluid composition, and that the usual way of getting things done officially was to find and deal with one's own chosen quorum of members -- had approved my application for citizenship, if it could be called that, with no argument. Several engineers in the group had been interested enough in the problem I represented to go to work on it at once. They were at the task now and might be expected to come up with something shortly. That was encouraging. I'm an engineer of sorts myself, though I work at it only in its incidental connection with my main job, and every idea I had thought of ran into a blank wall. This was usually a matter of basic procedure. I couldn't see how welding, or highother ordinary operations you take for granted in machining and handling work could be done in a liquid environment under a pressure of more than a ton to the square inch. Most tools, for example, have high-speed motors; high-speed motors are a little hard to conceive with their moving parts bathed in an even moderately viscous fluid; and under that sort of pressure, how do you keep the fluid out? Of course, if these people had been down here the eighty years or so that Bert had mentioned, they should have learned the basic tricks for the environment, just as men had learned space engineering the hard way. I wished I knew how they were going about my problem, though. I didn't find out in detail, but it didn't take them too long. About eighteen hours -- a very boring eighteen hours -- after Bert had brought the news, he came back with a team of helpers and began moving the tank. It was quite a trip. We went back outside and travelled IF half a mile or so to another, larger entrance. Inside it there were several large corridors, instead of just one, opening from the main chamber. They towed me down one of these for a distance and stopped by a pair of the first genuine locks I had seen since my arrival. One was quite ordinary, and I barely glanced at it; the other was circular and just about large enough for my tank. It was located in the same wall as the smaller lock, about twenty yards away from it. It was opened as we approached by a couple of the party who swam on ahead, and the tank was juggled through. The wall in which the door was hung turned out to be several feet thick, and the door itself but little thinner; I judged that the room beyond was the one to be depressurized. The chamber itself was fairly large. One side was crowded with apparatus, the most recognizable items being an operating table with broad restraining straps and a set of remote-control hands much finer than I was used to seeing on work subs. The larger part of the room, in which the tank had been placed, was almost bare, and it looked very much as though the operating room had originally been much smaller. There were signs that a wall as thick as the one I had come through had been removed from between the spot where I now was and the place where the table and its auxiliary gear stood. I would have liked to see the tools that had done the job. M y guess, as it turned out, was correct; the smaller section had been the original conversion room; the smaller lock leading into it could be connected to the hatch of a visiting sub. The whole trouble had been that my tank had no hatch; it normally opened by bisection. Bert wrote instructions for me while the others were getting out of the place. "When we're all gone and the door is sealed, the room will be pumped down to surface pressure. A green light will flash over the table when it's down, but you'll know anyway -- you'll be able to open your tank. When you can get out, go over to the table and get onto it. Fasten the straps around your body and legs. It doesn't matter whether your arms are free or not. When you're tight to the table, press the red signal button you can see from here." He indicated the button to me. "It's within reach of your right hand, you see. A container of sleeping medicine will be delivered by one of the hands. Drink it and relax. Nothing more can be done while you're conscious." "Why not?" "You'll have to be plugged into a heart-lung machine during the change. Don't worry. It's been done many times before. Once you're out of that tank and onto the table, the only unusual problem you offer will have been solved. All right?" "I see. All right." He put down his pad and swam out through the ponderous lock, which swung slowly shut. I hadn't seen any special dogs or clamps on it, but it opened out into the corridor and wouldn't need any. With its area, once the pressure started down in the room nothing much short of an earthquake could open it. I could tdl when the pumps started; the whole place quivered, and the vibration carried through to the tank very easily. I spent some time estimating the work that would have to be done to empty a room of this volume against a one-mile bead of sea water and a little more in wondering how the mysterious fluid that was replacing water would behave when e pressure came down. If ithad a high vapor pressure there would be a purging job mi top of the pumping one -- no, not necessarily, come to .think of it; the stuff must be physiologically harmless, so probably the vapor could be left in the room. Of course if it were flammable it might make trouble when they put oxygen in for me to breathe. Well, they were used to that problem and had been for decades. I needn't worry about it. In spite of all the free energy which seemed to be around, it took nearly half an hour to empty the place. The liquid level went down steadily. The surface, when it appeared, remained smooth. There was no boiling or other special behavior. It might as well have been water. They took no pains to get the last oi it out; there were several puddles on the rather uneven floor when the light flashed. I wasted no time opening the tank; I'd been in it for a long time and couldn't get out too fast. My ears hurt for a moment as the hemispheres fell apart; pressures had not been perfectly matched, but the difference wasn't enough to be serious. Once out I slowed down. My arms and legs were badly cramped, and I found it almost impossible for a few moments to walk even as far as the table. I spent several minutes working the kinks out of my limbs before I took the next step. The table was comfortable. Anything I could have stretched out on, including the stone floor, would have been comfortable just then. I fastened the broad, wbed strap about my waist and chest, then of course found I couldn't reach down to the ones for my legs. I undid the first set, took care of my legs, refastened the upper strap and finally was ready to push the signal switch. As promised, one of the mechanical hands promptly extended toward me with a beaker of liquid and a flexible tube to let me drink it lying down. I followed orders, and that's all I remember about the process. I woke up with a reasonably clear head. I was lying on a bunk in a small room that contained two other beds and nothing much else. No one else was around. Someone had removed my clothes, but they were folded in a sort of hybrid offspring of a laundry basket and a letter rack near the head of the bunk. Another similar affair held a pair of trunks such as I had seen worn by many of the men around my tank. After a moment's thought IF I put an the trunks; my other garments weren't made for swimming. I got out of the bunk and stood on the floor, though my head felt a little funny. It occuiT to me that I had no business feeling enough weight to let me stand, under the drcumslances; I was presumably immersed in a liquid denser than water, and therefore denser than my body. A thought crossed my mind; I rummaged inthe ipockets of my old clothes, found a jacknife, and let go of it. Sure enough, it fell past my face. I was standing on the ceiling, as were the bunks. I tried swimming after the knife, which had come to rest a couple of feet out of reach on the floor ceiling. It was quite an effort, though not by any means impossible. It was obvious why the people I had seen wore the ballast belts. I didn't see any of those around, though; for the moment at least. I'd have to walk if I wanted to go anywhere. This promised to be rather inconvenient too, since the liquid was fairly viscous, though less so than water. Also, the architecture wasn't designed for walkers; one of the doors to the room was in a wall and fairly accessible, but the other was in the floor -- that is, the floor toward which my head was now pointing and on which my jackknife had come to rest. Under the circumstances I decided to wait until Bert or someone showed up with ballast and swim fins. The decision was helped by the fact that I still didn't feel quite myself, even aside from the dikerence of opinion between my eyes and my semicircular canals as to which way was up and which was down. As a matter of fact, the canals couldn't seem to make up their minds at all on the matter, and it suddenly occurred to me that some surgery must have been done there as well. They could not possibly have been left half full of air -- or could they? How strong was bone, and how well surrounded by it were the canals, anyway? I felt around and found several places on my neck and around my ears where the smooth plastic of surgical dressing covered the skin, but that didn't prove much. It had boa obvious all along that some work around the ears would be necessary. I felt no desire to breathe; they must have slipped a supply of their oxygen-food into me sometime during the procedure. I wondered how long it would last. It suddenly occurred to me that I was very much in the power of anyone who chose to exercise it, since I hadn't the faintest idea where to get more of the stuff. That was something I'd have to discuss with Bert very shortly. I tried forcing myself to breathe. I found I could squeeze liquid slowly out of my lungs and get it back equally slowly, but it hurt and made me feel even dizzier than being right side up and upside down simultaneously. The liquid went into my windpipe; I could feel it, but there IF was no tendency to cough. I still think that must have been one of the trickiest parts of the conversion procedure, considering the nerve and muscle activity which coughing involves. T he presence of liquid in my windpide, expected as it was, raised another question. I certainly couldn't talk, and I didn't know the sign language which appeared to be standard here -- didn't even know the spoken language on which it was presumably based. I had a long job ahead of me if I were to communicate with the local inhabitants. Maybe it would be better to bypass any such effort; if I could find out all I needed to know from Bert, language lessons would be a waste of time. I could hear, though. The sounds were almost all strange, though some might have been the hum of highspeed motors or generators. There were whistles, thus, whines -- nearly everything there is a word for, hut none of it exactly similar to anything familiar, and one particular class of noise completely missing. The gabble of speech which drenches every other inhabited part of Earth was totally lacking. Nearly an hour passed, according to my watch, before anyone appeared (the watch itself was a solid-state radioactive-powered affair which had not bn designed with sea-bottom pressure in mind, but had come through the change perfectly). I spent most of the time cursing myself -- not for making the change, but for failing to take advantage of the time between decision and action by getting more information from Bert. The new arrival was young and quite decorative -- but I didn't fall in love with her. The response was mutual. She waved me back to the cot and examined my dressings with an air of competence. When she finished, I tried to call her attention to my lack of swimming ballast. She may have understood, since she paid courteous attention to me and nodded agreeably after I'd finished my gestures, but she left without doing anything constructive about the matter. I hoped she was going to call Bert. W hether she did or not, he was the next to enter. He had no extra ballast with him, but he did have the writing pad. 'Ms was even better. I reached for it and buckled down to work. I'd been restricted to communicating only by written note before, but not since leaving grammer school. In those days it had had a certain thrill, now it proved to be purest nuisance. In something over two hours, we settled: That I was a fully naturalized citizen of this place, and entitled to go where I pleased and do what I wanted short of obvious conflict with the interests of others; That I was not only permitted to examine the power-generating units, but was expected to familiarize myself with them as soon as possible; That I could visit Marie at her submarine whenever I felt like it, and I had the blessing of the Council and the rest of the population in arguing wilh her; and That I would be expected to support myself by farming until I demonstrated some different and at least equally useful way of contributing to the general welfare. That was all. Often in the past I'd held a lengthy conversation with someone, and after he was out of sight had remembered other things I'd wanted to say; but down here this sort of thing wasn't an incident, it was a habit. It wasn't so much that one forgot to bring up some point or other. As a rule there wasn't time to cover even the ones remembered. I've never appreciated the gift of speech so much in my life. Those of you who feel, after finishing this report, that I should have learned certain key facts sooner than I did will please remember this difficulty. I don't say I shouldn't have been quicker, but I do claim some excuse for my failure. The whole thing was not merely annoying; it did wind up making me look more like a plain fool than I ever have before or hope to again. What is really embarrassing is that so many people who have heard only this much of the story can see already where I went wrong. I had no real enthusiasm for farming, though I was curious about how it would be conducted on the sea bottom. I did want to learn about the power plant, but even that item I postponed. I asked Bert first of ;all to guide me to Marie's sub. He nodded and started swimming. 'he trip was made without conA versation. Maybe Bert was used enough to swimming by this time so that he could have written and read while doing it, like a city secretary doing a crossword puzzle as she strolls out to lunch, but I certainly was not. I simply looked around as I followed him, noting everything I possibly could. The tunnels were long and for the most part straight, but they formed a hopeless maze as far as I was concerned. I would be a long, long time learning to find my way around unaided. If there was anything corresponding to an ordinary street sign, I failed to spot it. There were all sorts of color patterns on the walls, but I couldn't tell whether they meant something or were merely decoration. Everything was brightly lighted. The place wasn't just tunnels, either. There were large rooms of all shapes, some of which might have been business plazas or shopping centers or theaters or almost anything else one can think of where a lot of people congregate. I seldom saw any real crowds, but there were enough swimmers around to support the claim that the population was quite large -- not surprising if it had been going for several generations. I was gradually coming to think of the place as a country, as Bert had claimed, rather than an outlaw organization; a country which had never lost its identity by subscribing to the Power Code. This might indeed be the case -- it might have been here longer than the Code had. I didn't know how much more than IF the eighty years Bert had mentioned might be in its history. That was something else to find out. I never got good at judging distances in swimming, and some of the corridors had their traffic assisted by a pump-driven current, so I don't know how far we went before reaching the submarine. As a matter of fact, I still have only the vaguest notion of the size of the whole place. At any rate we finally emerged from a naiTow corridor into one of the big chambers under an ocean entrance, crossed beneath the circle of blackness which gave on a mile of salt water, went on down a much larger passageway for perhaps two hundred yards, and found ourselves at the entrance to a fair-sized room in which one ordinary Board work sulb, loaded with external ballast slugs as my tank had been, lay cradled on the floor. Bert stopped just outside the entrance and began to write. I read over his shoulder as he produced, "I'd better stay outside. She's firmly convinced that I'm Judas Iscariot, Benedict Arnold and Vidkun Quisling all rolled into one. You'll have enough trouble appearing as you are without me beside you. Have you decided what excuse to offer for making the change?" I nodded, seeing no need to waste time writing out details more than once, and took the pad and stylus. Bert looked a little expectant, but I waved farewell to him and headed for the sub. When I looked back, just before reaching it, he was gone. I then remembered that sometime fairly soon I was going to need ordinaiy food and presumably, even more seriously, the oxygen food. Z still didn't know where to get em. I couldn't see anyone through the ports of the sub as I approached, though I circled all the way around it. Apparently Marie was asleep. I wasn't sure it would be sound policy to wake her up, but I finally decided to take a chance. I tapped on the hull. "If that's Bert, clear out. I'm busy thinking!" The words were clear and understandable, but they didn't sound at all like Marie's voice. I can't describe just what they did sound like. There are overtones produced by the human vocal cords which don't usually get through the imped ance-matchingj equipment of the listener's middleear -- one of the reasons one's own voice sounds so unfamiliar in a recording. Being immersed in a fluid which carries sound at about the same speed as water does, and having that fluid on both sides of the ear drum, makes an even greater difference. As I say, I personally lack the words to describe the exact result. I tapped again. The second response was equally dear, but I've promised Marie not to quote it. I got annoyed, and my third tap came os close to pounding as (the liquid envircwiment permitted. That was a mistake. A man can stand the explosion of a stick of dynamite a hundred feet away, in air, quite easily... The noise is uncomfortable but not by itself dangerous. If he's swimming at thait distance from the same stick when it detonates under water, though, he can count on being killed. My fist didn't pack the energy of a stick of dynamite, but things might have been less painful if it had. At least I'd have been comfortably dead. My eardrums didn't actually break when the shock wave hit them, but the sensations can't have been much different. I was long in recovering to permit Marie to come to the port, recognize me, get over whatever shock the recognition may have caused her and freeze up again. She claims now that she was glad to see me for the first half second or so. She says she even yelled my name, in spite of my known feeling about that. By the time I was aware of my surroundings again, though, she was certainly showing no sign of pleasure. She was glaring at me. I could see her lips moving, but I couldn't yet hear her words over the ringing and pounding still in my ears. I held my hands over them for a moment and tried to signal her to wait, but her lips kept right on moving. I gave up on the signals and got to work with the stylus. By the time I had filled the sheet with writing, I was beginning to make out her words. They made it clear why Bert had preferred not to stay with me. Angry as she was, though, she was stiU sane enough to pause and read what I had written when I held it up to the port. The words had been carefully planned, on the basis of what Bert had told me about her current attitude. What I wrote was, "Don't say anything likely to get me in trouble with these people. Why did you stay down here?" That was supposed to divert her attention from the question of why I was here myself, apparently enjoying all local rights and privileges. It might even give her the thought that I was playing spy. It was partly successful; at least, the strong language stopped, and she took time out to think before she spoke again. T hen she answered, "I'm here to find Joey. He disappeared down here -- you know that as well as I do. I'm staying here until I know what's become of him." "Wouldn't there be some point in going up to tell the Board about this place?" I asked. "Then a really well manned force could come down and accomplish something constructive." "I thought of that," she admitted, "but when Bert told me I could go back and report everything I knew, I was sure there was some trick behind it. Besides, I was more worried about Joe, and they wouldn't tell me anything about him." "Didn't Bert say you could stay if you wanted?" "Yes. That's what made me suspicious. How could any decent person agree to stay here? It was just a trick to help make sure I couldn't go back. Once you're changed to breathe water, you can't change back, obviously." IF I almost pointed out that the liquid wasn't water, and then I almost asked what was obvious about her conclusion. I realized that the first point was irrelevant and that she'd dismiss it as quibbling, and the second was likely to bring up the subject of my own conversion. Besides, any argument was likely to force me to use information I'd have to admit came from Bert, so she probably wouldn't 'believe it. Come to think of it, I realized with a sudden jolt, I had only Bert's word for it that the change was reversible to the extent of letting me go back to the surface. Well, if he were mistaken or lying to me, it was too late now. I was writing again as those thoughts flickered through my mind. "But what do you expect to accomplish just sitting here in your sub? What have you done in the six weeks since we last saw you?" She ducked that one. "I don't know what I can do here, but if I leave I'm shut off from further information. I still hope I can get something out of Bert. I'm sure he knows where Joey is, even though he denies it." "How can you get any word out of him if you won't talk to him? You told me to get out just now when you thought I was Bert." She grinned, and for just a moment looked like the Marie I knew back at Papeete. "I just think it's better technique to keep him wanting to talk to me" was her answer. I couldn't understand the rationale of that one, but there was much about Marie I'd never understood, and she knew it. "Well, Tm here now," I wrote, "and whether it turns out to be for keeps or not I can at least move around and get something done. Subject to your approval, I plan to devote my time to getting information which you can take back to the surface when you go -- I assume you don't plan to spend the rest of your life here." "I don't plan it, but I rather expect it," was her reply. Before I could write any comment she went on, "Of course. I'll have to give up and start back some time, but I know they'll dispose of me when I do. That's assuming they did the same with Joe, and I'm very sure they did. If I do find him alive, of course, what I do will depend on him." She fell silent, and after a moment to make sure she had finished I wrote again. "But you'd like me to find him for you." She looked at me with what I hoped was a tender and sympathetic expression, though I couldn't be quite sure through the port. She knew how I felt about her, of course. I'd never made any secret of it, and even if I'd tried to, a woman would have had to be a lot more stupid than Marie to miss the evidence. Most of the girls in our section are more stupid than she, and it's a standing joke with them. M arie didn't answer for several seconds, and I decided I still had the conversational ball. I resumed writing. "Of course, he's part of the job anyway. I came down to find out whiat I could albout tibe ithree of you. I know about Bert land you, now, but the job's not finished. There are other things here to learn. I've got to pick up the technical information that makes this place possible, especially its lability to ignore power rationing, and there's a little question which talking to you has brought up. If you're so siure they've disposed of Joe, and are planning to do the same with you when you leave, why do you think you're still alive? They could have holed your sub without the slightest difficulty -- or for that matter spared themselves the considerable trouble of supplying you with food and air." "I've been thinking about that last," Marie answered, this time without hesitation. "When I first staged this sit-down, it was meant to test them on that point -- " She saw me start writing and stopped while I finished. "Weren't you taking some chances with that sort of test?" I asked. "Suppose they'd failed it. Would you have lived to report the results?" "Well, no. I wasn't really caring what happened to me about that time, but I did think I stood a chance of driving out of here and making a decent try for the surface, with something really worth while to report." "Marie, I've always thought as much of your brains as of your other qualities, but for the last few minutes you've been dithering. You must know it. Are you going to give me straight data, or do I have to work here even more alone than I'd hoped? I repeat, why do you think they haven't killed or at least starved you?" T hat was taking a chance, I realized, but it worked. She started to frown, then fought it off with a visible effort, thought for a moment with her lips ipursed and then began talking more quietly. "All right. I didn't trust any of the juice-breathers out there, and I'm not sure I trust even you -- " I was grateful for the "even" -- "but I'll take a chance. I've been doing a lot of thinking here; I've had nothing much else to do. I've come up with one explanation, and I haven't been able to think of any others or find any holes in it. It accounts for their and Bert join them. It suggests that Joe might possibly be alive, though if he is it doesn't explain why he hasn't come to see me the way you and Bert have." She paused to think for a moment and then went on. "It's quite simple in principle, but it could do with some detailed facts. That's one reason I'm telling it to you." She paused again, and looked at me hard before going on. "They must need us. There's something they're short of that you, and Bert, and Joe, and I, and maybe anyone else from the surface can supply. It's the only sensible answer." I pondered that. It was a possibility I hadn't thought of, though I was not ready to accept it as the only sensible one. "You don't think they might just be so pleased with their way of life -- freedom from power rationing, they'd probably call it -- that they IF just wamt recruits on general principles? That sort of thing has happened." "I know it has," she replied. "But I don't believe it has this time. You got that sort of thing back in the days of nations and political parties, before the Board's necessity was realized." "If you think we've outgrown politics," I retorted as quickly as the stylus would let me, "you're less alert than I thought you were around our own office. And what's wrong with regarding this bunch as a nation? It's the picture I've been forming of them." "Nation? You've a short circuit between the ears. They're just another bunch of power-wasters. There aren't enough of them to be a nation." "Do you know how many there are?" "Of course not. I've been in no position to count. A few hundred, I should think." "You think a few hundred people could build a place like this? Or even a small part of it? There must be miles of tunnels here. I swam for the best part of an hour to get from where they worked on me to this place, and it was a maze. I haven't seen any part of their power unit yet, but it miust be huge to supply all this volume with light, and there's that big tent area outside -- you must have seen that. How could a few hundred people possibly do such a job? On the surface, with unlimited time and normal construction machinery, sure; but what standard machinery could have been used here?" M arie had wanted to cut in a little way back, but waited for me to finish. There's no point in trying to quote the next few minutes verbatim; they boiled down to the fact that she hadn't seen the lighted area outside. She'd spotted a work sub while she was prowling around searching for Joe, had followed it, and wound up at an entrance apparently out of sight of the "tent." Apparently there were a lot of entrances. She had no opinion to offer on the lighted area, and I couldn't help feeling that she didn't entirely 'believe my account of it. She hadn't been captured. She'd followed the sub to the entrance, found she lacked ballast enough to get through the interface between the liquids and simply stayed there, blocking traffic, until they'd loaded her down and towed her inside out of the way. Women are interesting creatures, with interesting powers. I wasn't sure  believed her, but decided not to tell her so. "All right," I finally summed up on the pad. "The jobs for me seem to be to find Joe or reliable word of him; to find a specific, convincing eager to have us join them; to get reliable information about the size and population of the place; and to get the technical information about their power plant." "Right," she nodded. "I won't demand that you do all that without confiding in Bert, because I have no way of enforcing such a request. I'll just say I don't trust him, myself." "I still don't see why not. He's changed over to this high-pressure tcheme, but so have I, and you've decided to trust me, I gather." "Don't remind me of it. It's a point against you. Still, I'm hoping that with you it's just a cover-up. After all you seem to believe it's a reversible change, even if I don't, judging by your expression when I said it wasn't. I hope for your sake you're right." "Why shouldn't Bert have believed the same and had the same motive?" "If that's the case, why has he been down here a year? If he can come back, he must be up to something, because he hasn't. If he can't he's up to something because he must have told you it was possible. Think it over." I did and found myself with no good answer. The best I could say was, "All right. I'll be careful." I had started to swim away when she called my name. Irritated, I turned back and saw her face pressed close to the port. As I looked she spoke again, much more softly, so that even immersed in the liquid I could barely hear. "You're a pretty good egg. If it weren't for Joe -- " She broke off, and her face disappeared from the port. I swam away, listening to my own heartbeat and trying to organize my thoughts. T here was no sign of Bert in the corridor outside, and I didn't dare wander in search of him. I did remember the way back to the nearthe ocean entrance and swam there in the hope that it was a logical place for him to ibe waiting. There were at least a dozen people in the big chamber, and more could be seen dimly in the darker water above, but none of them was Bert. I could think of nothing to do but wait for him, as far as the main program was concerned. But it did seem a good time to pick up a little local education. I swam up to the interface and hesitated. Other people were going through from time to time. I decided I'd better watch their technique before I tried it myself. It was simple enough. All one did was cling to a ladder, remove one's ballast belt and hang it on one of the numerous hooks lining the rim and swim through. However, everyone who did this was wearing helmet and coveralls, presumably to keep the special liquid in their mouths, ears and so on. Maybe ocean water would hurt lungs, for all I knew. Anyway, no one stuck an unhelmeted head through the boundary, and I decided to play safe myself even though I couldn't see what the danger, if any, might be. Several of the people around were watching me, I noticed. One or two of them had expressions of concern on their faces. One gestured at me, but of course I couldn't read her signs. She watched me for a moment, saw that I didn't answer, made another flickering series of hand motions to those around her and then swam over to me. She pointed to the water and then to me and raised her eyebrows quizzically. The nature of her queiy was easy to guess. IF though the girl herself commanded more attention than her signals. She might have been the one I had seen outside, though there was no way to be sure. There were several others in the group who were just as likely to be that one. She had straight blonde hair, cut short in a bob which could easily be accommodated in one of the swimming helmets. She was about five feet three in height and would have weighed about a hundred and ten pounds out of water. She was wearing a twopiece affair which was a long way from being a coverall, but protected much more acreage than a bikini. Her face was rather narrow, and I could make no guess at her regional origin. In response to her question, or what I assumed to be her question, I raised an arm toward the water surface very slowly, watching her with raised eyebrows as I did so. She gave a violent negative headshake, wrapped her arms tight around herself and shuddered realistically. I could also interpret that and was annoyed with myself for not remembering that the water outside would be cold. It was useful data; it justified the inference that the liquid we were in was not a very good heat conductor, or I'd already have felt the chill of the ocean water only a few yards away. Of course it couldn't be too poor a conductor either, or we'd be having the standard spacesuit problem of getting rid of surplus body heat. I hadn't been conscious of either heat or cold up to this moment. Now I wished I had a thermometer so that I could form some numerically meaningful opinions. I held up one finger and poked it toward the boundary, asking the girl the same question with my eyebrows. She shrugged, as though to say it was my finger, so I pushed it on through. The temperature was bearable, but I could see why the swimmers wore coveralls. I thought I could stand it for a short time if I had to, but saw no reason to make a test of the matter just then. I thought it would be more useful to start to get familiar with the normal communication method of these people. In spite of Bert's remarks and my earlier try through the tank walls, it seemed possible that some of them might know at least a little of some language I did. I showed the girl the writing pad. She nodded at the sight of it and flashed a sidelong smile at the others who were drifting in the vicinity. I wrote a short sentence in each of my more usuable languages and held the pad up for her to read. S he looked at it courteously and carefully, but smiled and shook her head. I showed it to the others, with much the same reaction. Then there was a lengthy session of flickering fingers as they held a conversation among themselves. Several of them, including the girl, looked as though they would have laughed if it had been physically possible. Then the girl took the pad and stylus from me, and began to make marks of her own. The stylus moved very rapidly, but not in a set across-and-back lines like ordinary writing. It was more like drawing, from where I floated. It took her perhaps thirty seconds to finish, then she handed the talblet back to me and let me gawk at it. I gawked. What she had done is impossible to describe in real detail, though a general idea can be given. In a way, it was rather like an electrical diagram, with straight lines going from one place to another, most of them parallel to the edges of the pad. Sometimes there were tiny gaps in the lines where one would have intersected another; sometimes (the junctions were marked with dots; sometimes one line went through another with no effect on either. Here and there in the maze were tiny patterns, incredibly complex considering the time that had been spent on them. None of these looked exactly like an electrical symhol I knew, hut 'all left a vague feeling of familiarity. The whole pattern was almost a picture. It gave a tantalizing effect of being something I should recognize but couldn't dig out of the back of my mind. I kept trying to interpret it in terms of a circuit diagram, which as I said it vaguely resembled, but got nowhere. I tried to think of it as one of those trick drawings all made out of straight lines which become modern art every few decades, and got no farther. I had to shake my head as the girl had done. I cleared the s'heet and tried some more languages, this time ones I don't know at all well. All I was hoping for was evidence of recognition. I didn't get it. Not a trace. This was very odd, since the dozen or so languages I had covered represent native (tongues for something like three quarters of the Earth's population and included at least a few known slightly by educated people everywhere. The girl reciprocated my second effort with another of her own. I could see that it differed in detail from the first, but it (bore a strong family resemblance to its predecessor, and I couldn't make any more sense out of it. If I'd had a camera able to work under the circumstances I'd have photographed it on the chance that it had something to do with the power plants, though even at my most optimistic I'd have admitted it was a very slim Chance. T he thought of plans in general gave me an idea, though. I cleared the pad again and drew in its center a small sketch meant to represent the room we were in, the various passages leading from it and the chamber where Marie's sub was berthed. The girl didn't get the idea at first, so I swam over to one of the passages whose entrance I had indicated, looked down it to see whether it were straight or not and extended the appropriate lines on the drawing. That seemed to get (across. She nodded her head after some more hand-talk with her friends; then she gave me a "so what" look. I handed her the pad and stylus and gestured around, hoping she'd see I wanted a map of the place. They understood this, too, I felt sure, but the hand-talk went on for a good deal longer. I hoped they IF were merely arguing about the best way to give me the information, rather than whether to give me it at all. What I would have liked best was a regular chart of the place, not someone's freehand sketches. The argument, if that's what it was, was interrupted by Bert's return. It was a relief to be able to converse understandably, however slowly, once more, but Bert had his own ideas about the subject of conversation. He took the writing materials from the girl and cleared the pad without a glance at what was on it. "Did you get any cooperation out of Marie, or has she lumped you with the rest of the outcasts?" he asked. "I think I'm on probation," I replied. "Nothing will really satisfy her but a definite report on Joe." "Well, we can't give one. To the best of my knowledge he never got here." "You didn't spot his sub in the vicinity, even?" "No one reported it." "But how about your sonar?" "We don't use it except under very special circumstances. It would be too likely to be picked up. We're about us, but only if they find out all about us. Don't you have that picture yet? We simply don't want to be lumped in with the power-wasters the Board is always after, and you know perfectly well that that's the picture people will have if we don't get a chance to explain." "I suppose that's true. It's the picture Marie has now, and she seems quite fond of it. I wonder if just explaining is really going to be enough." "It would be if people would believe the explanation." I said nothing about the profundity of that remark. "You've been explaining to Marie for six weeks, and she doesn't." "No, we haven't. We've been talking for six weeks and she doesn't listen. There's a difference. She refuses to discuss anything except Joe. I think your greatest service, both to us and to the Board, would be to get her to pay attention to a genuine description of the whole situation." I digested that for half a minute or so. Several of the people who had been there when Bert arrived had now swum away, but the girl and two or three others were still watching with interest. They were deeply absorbed in seeing what we were writing on the pad, crowding in to look at each message in turn over the writer's or intended recipient's shoulder. The girl always seemed to get the best place. Standards of courtesy seemed a bit old-fashioned compared with most regions at the surface. "You may be right," I wrote at last, after trying to fit what he had said into the program I had outlined for myself. "That would seem to mean that I'll have to see this whole installation with my own eyes, so as to be able to claim first-hand knowledge." "Precisely. Come along. With this job, you may be spared farming after all, but at least you'll have to see the farms. As a matter of fact. I'm getting hungry, and it must be even longer for you than for me since the last decent meal." I I had no objection to this thought, and followed him as he swam off through still another of the passages.  The girl and three others, after a couple of gestures, followed us. As before, it just wasn't practical to write and swim at the same time, so I had plenty of opportunity for thought as we traveled. I wasn't able  to use it very constructively, and j there's nothing much I can say about Hthe trip except that it took around S fifteen or twenty minutes. Absolutely nothing of interest, and as far as I know nothing of importance, hap pened until we reached a doorway much less regular in shape than the circular and rectangular ones I had seen so far. The light on the other side was t fainter than in the tunnels, but brighter than in the ocean beyond the regular entrances. I followed Bert with quickened interest, guessing what I'd see. I wasn't surprised to find myself suddenly a few yards above the sea bottom; I was "outdoors." The passage we had just left was cut into a sloping rock face -- as a matter of fact, the passage itself was a long way from horizontal, as I could now see. I had not been aware of swimming uphill during any of the trip. There was, I reflected, little reason why I should have been. A few yards below me a stretch of sea bottom extended into the distance. Once out of the tunnel I could see that it was quite well lighted. Looking up, I could see perhaps fifty IF feet above me the glowing surface of the "tent" roof. The bottom it-! self might as well have been under five feet of water instead of five thousand. It was covered with vegetation. ! I didn't recognize any of the plant life, but that was natural. I might have learned some descriptive biology, or natural history, or whatever it should be called if Fd been born before genetic manipulation becajme a practical art, but I wasn't and didn't Presumably this plant life had been tailored to provide food for the local population, and the light was there to permit the plants to grow. "It was alcnost as good an excuse for the wasted kilowatts as the one Bert had given me. Just once, several years before, I had tasted natural food confiscated from a waster, and I had sympathizied with the fellow even then. I'd had to rehearse the moral precepts very firmly, several times a day, for weeks afterward. I'd finally recovered my normally healthy resentment of people who corner resources to give themselves pleasures denied to the rest of us, but it had come hard. Bert and the others were slanting down toward the bottom, which was laid out in roughly rectangular patches with a different variety of plant in each. Other swimmers were around in fairly large numbers. Some appeared to be eating, others working. The precise nature of the labor was obscure, partly 'because of their distance and partly because I knew no more of farming than anyone else had for the last century or so. My companions were now pulling round, greenish excrescenses from the plants and taking bites from them. The girl handed one to me, and watched with evident amusement while I looked it over and finally took an experimental nibble. I couldn't quite make up my mind whether I likM it or not. It was very different from any ordinary tank alga and was not in a class with that forbidden taste of years before, but it was interesting. I tried another bite, decided it was good and finished it off. The girl showed me how to get others from the plant without a major struggle -- they had to be twisted in a special way before the tough stems would yield -- and then left me to my own devices while she ate several of the things herself. Then she beckoned me to follow, led the way to another patch, and showed me a different fruit. I made a very satisfact(My meal in the next quarter of an hour. I wondered which, if any, of these growths was the oxygen source. Perhaps they aU were; they were all green and presumably photosynthetic, but none were giving off visible bubbles as food-alga tanks are always doing. I decided not to worry about oxygen; there was no reason for Bert's friends to kill me off in such an indirect and inconvenient way as by depriving me of that. They'd already had too many chances. It suddenly dawned on me that I was lumping Bert in more and more closely with the local dwellers, in my own mind. I don't believe most of what I read about the subconscious it seems to me to be too much like astrology, alcohol and other excuses for sloppy thinking and incompetence -- but as I reviewed consciously the events of the last few hours it looked more and more as though my changing attitudes were justified. He seemed to regard himself more as a local citizen than as a Board worker with a job to do, and maybe I'd been picking up his attitude without really noticing the evidence. There was his choice of words, for example. I'dbeen devoting more attention to what he said than to the exact way he said it, but now that I thought of it there were a lot of "We's" and "Us's" which didn't really belong in the thoughts of a good Board official under the circumstances -- especially if he were really sure that no one but I could read what he was writing. Maybe Marie wasn't being so unreasonable after all. I glanced over at him. He was eating, like the others, but he seemed to be taking very little part in the conversation which the unoccupied hands of the eaters were carrying on. I don't really blame myself for not seeing anything very significant in that at the time. If anything, it reassured me; it was consistent with his claim that he hadn't learned much of the local talk. But after the meal I began to feel bothered again. He took me everywhere I showed the slightest desire to go. He explained, convincingly, everything I asked about. There was the tent roof, for example. When I wrote a question about that, his face turned an odd purple color; when IF tiiat had faded, he wrote, "Careful. With liquid in your lungs, laughing can kill you. They cut a key nerve in your coughing reflex when they changed you, hut you can still laugh if you're not careful." "What's funny about that question?" "Well, I can see where you'd get the idea of a fabric over this place, but I assure you no one has gone to any such trouble. What you see is simply the interface between the liquids." "Why doesn't it look the saifie here -- translucent instead of transparent -- as it does at the entrances? Why do you have special entrances, for that matter?" "We keep the entrances cleared off. There's too much area for that -- several square miles -- over the farms. Stuff in the ocean is settling to the bottom all the time, and stuff formed on the farms is floating upward. Some of each -- a very small percentage, luckily -- has density between that of our liquid and water, so it collects at the interface. As a matter of fact, a good deal of living matter grows there, though fortunately it's monocellular stuff. If there were more of it, we'd have to clear anyway to let light through to the plants, which would be quite a project." I should have asked him right then, I know, why the lights were up in the water instead of down closer to the plants. It was just one of those things that I didn't. If he'd answered, it would have saved me a good deal of later embarrassment, though I'm still not sure that he would have. I suppose he would, on the basis of what I understand now of his reasons for acting as he did. When I mentioned the power plant, he started off immediately, with the same group trailing along. I wondered whether they were guards, secret agents or curious idlers, but didn't waste much time on the question. There was no way to tell, or even to make a decent guess. In any case, with the power plant next on the agenda, no other question was very interesting. After a time we reached the first large closed door I had seen since emerging from my tank. It was much like the one which had admitted my container to the conversion room. Bert made a few gestures to our escort; they began a longer conversation among themselves, but he didn't wait for them to finish. He began opening small lockers in the tunnel wall, and extracting coveralls which looked like the ones used outside in the ocean. They were complete with helmets. "What's the reason for these? Temperature?" I wrote when he gestured me to put one on. "No. You probably haven't found out yet, and I hope for your sake you don't, but immersed as we are in liquid we're very sensitive to intense sound waves." I didn't interrupt with my experience, but for once I was sure he was telling unvarnished truth."The power plant is very efficient, but there's still a trace of noise -- quite enough to kill an unprotected person. Get the suit on and make sure it's tight." I obeyed. I had a little trouble; the garment wasn't as simple as it looked. One of the buckles proved to have a sharp corner which cut quite a deep gash on my hand and I wondered what sort of quality control would put up with that sort of design. The drops of blood looked a little strange, bright-red globules rising from the wound, but the injury was minor. By the time Bert had solved my problem with the buckle the bleeding had stopped. He checked my coverall, especially the wrist and helmet junctions, very carefully. The others had also dressed and were doing the same for each other. Gestures which even I could interpret signified that the checks were complete, and Bert turned to the door. He manipulated a dial at its side, and the great valve -- large enough to accommodate a small work sub -- swung easily open. He waved us through, waited until we had passed and closed the portal behind us. It struck me again that his air was not merely one of familiarity but of authority. How, in a single year, could a Board agent have made himself so completely trusted by these people? A Board agent, of all people on Earth the most likely to take action against them and their way of life? Could he have been in contact with them even before his disappearance from the surface a year ago? Could Marie be right? And if she were, what was I getting into? I had trusted Bert Whelstrahl completely when I first saw him down here and had tossed off most of Marie's claims as coming from a woman nearly hysterical with grief; it had seemed likely enough that her Joe -- not that he'd ever been hers, in his own estimation -- had actually never reached this place. Eaough other things could happen to make a one-man sub disappear in the Pacific. Now I was wondering, deeply. But there were other matters claiming attention. F or the first time, I found myself in a tunnel which was obviously slanted steeply -- the pull of my ballast belt let me judge "up" and "down" easily enough when I paid attention to the matter. We were heading downward at fully sixty degrees. The tunnel lights, the only distinct features on the walls, were going by at a speed which showed we were being helped by pumps; there was certainly a downward current. I wondered if we'd have to swim against it on the way back and decided it wouldn't be possible. Either they'd reverse the flow, or we'd use another tunnel. I didn't notice any temperature change, though I knew we were going to examine a heat engine. Maybe this bunch was moral enough about energy waste when it came to the sort of leakage which robbed a machine of efficiency, no matter how they behaved about it afterward. I couldn't guess how far down we went before reaching the control chamber. It was certainly hundreds of feet, probably thousands, possibly as much as a mile. I did see the IF charts of the layout later on, but the peculiar ideas of scale used by their makers still defeats me. It was certainly far enough down to present a hopeless obstacle to any bruteforce defense against pressure as armor. The room itself was big enough to make the far end hard to see. The liquid, as I guess I may have forgotten to mention scattered light just a trifle and gave objects more than fifty yards or so away a foggy appearance. The room, though, as a control chamber was almost shockingly conventional. It contained along one wall a pattern of lines which even I could recognize as a distribution net. Below this was another pattern, harder to recognize but of noticeably vertical orientation, and I suspected that it indicated the working-fluid circuits between the heat source far below and the converters and heat sink at the top. A heat engine of any sort works on pretty basic thermodynamics, and its diagrams are apt to resemble those of its relatives whether it's a steam turbine or a thermocouple. Along the lines of both diagrams were indicators, mostly of familiar dial-andneedle type, switches and rheostats. Nothing was mystifying; it was a power plant control at a glance. That is, it could be recognized at a glance. It couild be learned, given luck and competence, in a month or two. Thirty or forty swimmers, suited and helmeted like ourselves, drifted a few feet from the control wall, all their attention focused on it. This was a little surprising. I would have expected fewer operators on a board of this size. If they were all necessary for manual control, it was another mark against the general level of technical competence here, like the sharp buckle. I hoped that poor coordination on their part would merely result in nuisance rather than catastrophe. No doubt there were fail-safe breakers in the electric distribution net and some sort of emergency bleed-offs here and there in the fluid lines, but even so that crowd of operators gave a certain primitive air to the whole thing. I watched thoughtfully. The ones who had come in with us looked with as much interest as I felt; I got the impression that they hadn't been here before either. Well, that was quite possible. The whole population could hardly be composed of power engineers. It added to the mystery, though, because I knew that rt wasn't one eithef. He had a general engineering background like my own, which of course you need to be any good at tracking down power waste. Why should he have authority around here? H e turned and made a couple of gestures at our escort. Then he wrote me a message. "Don't get close enough to distract any of these people. More than half of them are trainees." That put a slightly better light on the situation. "You take your education here seriously," I answered. "You bet we do. You'll see why, soon. Swim around as much as you want and look at what you want -- you know enough so I don't have to watch you like these others. Just don't get in front of an operator." I nodded. For the next half hour I did just as he had written, examining the entire board in as much detail as I could. The arrangement made more and more sense as time went on. One very surprising reason for this was that the dials and control knobs were marked in perfectly ordinary numbers. I hadn't expected that, after seeing what seemed to pass for writing down here. The numbers were alone, unfortunately -- no units such as volts or megabars were given. In spite of this, the position of each instrument on the diagram which formed the board usually gave a pretty good clue to its purpose. In less than an hour I felt I understood the system pretty well. Ten shafts led down to the heat absorbers at the source -- presumably a magma pocket. The details of the absorbers themselves weren't obvious from the board, but I knew enough about volcanic installations to guess. I'd done a waste investigation in Java once. The working fluid was water; the still which took in sea water and desalted it, the electrolysis units which got alkali metals from the recovered salts and the ion injection feeds were all obvious on the board. ten in number, but all exhausted into a common condenser which appeared to be cooled by outside sea water. It did not serve as a preheater for the still, . which seemed wasteful to me. Without units on the gauges I couldn't be sure of the net power developed, but it seemed obvious that it had to be in megawatts at least. I hadn't noticed the sound of which Bert had warned, but perhaps that was because of the suit. I took a chance and loosened slightly one of the cuffs between sleeve and glove. There was sound, a heavy drone like a vast organ pipe and no doubt due to the same physical cause. It wasn't painful, but I could tell that removing the protecting suit entirely might be unwise. I wondered how close we actually were to the steam tunnels which must be the source of the hum. Even more, I wondered about their maintenance, but I had to do without details for the time being. The people who had come with Bert and me had stayed farther from the board, presumably because of his orders. They watched for a while what was going on, but gradually began talking to each other, judging by their hand motions. They rather reminded me of school children who have lost interest in watching the film. Once again I was reminded of the oddness in Bert's being able to give orders, or even act as a guide. He himself, after the first few minutes, paid no attention to the people who had come with us. He had waved to me in a gesture which I had interpreted as meaning that he'd be back later and swam out of sight. I assumed he would be and kept on with my inspection of the board. F or a good deal of the rest of the hour, the girl and her companIF ions followed me araund, though without getting as close to board and operators as I did. They seemed to be more interested in me than in the engineering. I considered this understandable in the case of the girl and supposed the men were just staying with her. I finally decided that I had made all I could of the board and began to wonder where Bert had gone. There seemed no way to ask; he had taken the writing pad with him, and anyway the futility of that method had been established. If there had been among my satellites someone not present at the earlier experiment, I might have been tempted to try again anyway, but as it was the absence of writing gear was more of a challenge than a nuisance. This seemed to be a good time to start learning the local gesture language. I swam away from the control panel to the farther wall, the others following, and began what I hoped would be a language lesson by the method standard in fiction. I pointed to things, and tried to get the others to use their gesture-words for them. To say that it went badly is understating. It went so badly that I wasn't even sure whether they had grasped what I wanted by the time Bert came back. They had made lots of hand, arm and finger motions, both at me and at each other, but I saw no way of telling whether any of them were the names of things I pointed at, or symbols for the verbs I acted out. Probably I was missing a lot of the subtle motions and attitudes anyway, but I simply never detected a pattern repeated often enough to be learned. It was as frustrating an experience as I'd had since -- well, for a few hours, anyway. Maybe a day or more. W hen Bert did get back and saw what was going on he had another siege of near-laughter. "I tried that, too," he finally wrote, "when I first got here. I'm supposed to be a fair linguist, but I never made more than the slightest headway I hate to seem conceited, but I really don't think it can be done unless you start as a child." "You must have learned a little." "Yes, About fifty basic symbols -- I think." "But you were talking to these people here. I got the impression you were telling them what to do." "I was, in a sloppy sort of way. My few dozen gestures include the most obvious verbs, but even those I can't do very well. Three quarters of the people can't understand me at all -- this girl here is one of the best. I can read them only when they make my few signs very slowly." "Then how in blazes are you in a position to tell any of them what to do? And how does that fact jibe with what you told me about no one here being able to tell people what to do?" "I may have expressed myself badly. This isn't a very authoritative government, but the Council's advice is usually taken, at least on matters even slightly connected with 'physical maintenance of the installation." "And this council has given you some sort of authority? Why? And does that mean that Marje was right in believing you'd deserted the Board and mankind and gone over to these wasters for good?" "One question at a time, please," he scribbled hastily. "The Council didn't exactly give me authority. I'm making my suggestions as a member." "I took the pad and cleared it, trying to catch his eye the whole time. I finally wrote, "Let's have that again? My eyes must be fooling me, too." He grinned and repeated the sentence. I looked at him with an expression which sobered him at once, and he went on writing. "I'm not -- " heavily underlined -- "here to stay, whatever Marie may think, and in spite of what I told you before. I'm sorry about having to lie to you. I'm here to do a job; what will happen after it's done I don't know. You're in the same position, as you know perfectly well." I had to nod agreement at that point. "I'm on the Council because of my linguistic skills and general background." I was so hard put to it to make sense out of that remark that I almost failed to read the next one in time; I had to stop him as I was about to clear the board to make room for more words. "There's a little more information about the place down here which I wasn't going to bother you with, but I've changed my mind. I'll let you see it, and you can decide for yourself how and whether to include it or allow for it in your job of getting Marie to make her mind up. I have my opinion on how' it should be used, but you're entitled to yours. Come on. I want you to meet the engineer in charge of maintenance development work here." He swam off, and I went after him with the others trailing behind. I had no urge to talk, even if it had been possible. I was still trying to figure out how someone whose mastery of the local speech represented a slow two-year-old's vocabulary could have earned an official position on the strength of his linguistic talents. No doubt you've seen it by now, since I've tried to tell this fairly, but it was too much for me. I was so far behind the facts that I was even startled by something else you've probably been expecting. We swam into a sort of office opening from the far end of the control room, and I saw floating in front of a microfilm viewer, oblivious to the people around him, my good friend Joey Elfven.      IF H U E Dear Editor: I was very interested in the letter you printed in the May issue of If from Patrick Kelly of Baltimore, in which he asked if anyone was making plans against the day when the establishment of colonies independent of existinig governments would be possible ( such as communities on the ocean floor or on the moon). I think I have what he (and probably many other readers as well) is looking for, and more. I had had thoughts similar to those of Mr. Kelly for some time. Then a couple of years ago, I started reading newspaper articles about the "pirate radio stations operating on ships anchored in international waters off the coast of various European countries, and it occured to me that this was a means of establishing a more-or-less independent community right here, right now, without waiting for future technology. During the past two years, I and some of my colleagues considerable amount of speculation about and research into the technical, political, economic and social problems and possibilities of the idea. Technically, the ship concept has the enormous advantage of involving no new techniques, and thus of being immediately feasible. Longterm expansion of the community, however, will require a larger source of floating "real estate. The most promising approach appears to be one found feasible during World War II by the Navy, but abandoned as not suited to their particular needs at the time : anchoring ice floes that have been covered with insulation, and keeping them solid with refrigerating units. Our studies indicate that these floes (which are plentiful in sizes up to many miles across and tens of meters thick) can be refrigerated with a surprisingly modest installation, even when their insulation is quite thin. Politically, the most appealing idea is, of course, the establishment of independent countries. However, these countries would have little recourse if they were attacked by a private group seeking their downfall, or were seized by a neighboring mainland country that became irritated by their presence (both of which have caused the demise of "pirate" radio stations). On the other hand, registration of the communities as regular vessels under the flag of an appropriate country (Monaco and Luxembourg seem best suited for this), while providing a measure of protection from the fates described above, would involve accepting certain restrictions, which might or might not prove fatal to a community, depending on whate the residents were planning to undertake. Whichever of these approaches is chosen, it is clear that taxation (even allowing for the cost of providing services that would ordinarily be tax-supported) will be considerably less than on the mainland. This economic advantage may well be the most important factor in expanding interest in the idea from a small group of enthusiasts to a broad cross-section of the population. Socially, the concept is virtually a blank check for any group of Utopians to put their ideas into practice through the creation of everything from a Fourth Reich led by George Lincoln Rockwell to a Classless Society manned by Marxist purists. The survival of these experiments will probably be no higher than ever, but some worthwhile ideas may emerge, and, in any case, the participants will enjoy their lives the more for their attempts, successful or not. In short, the offshore community offers as much freedom to depart from accepted norms in politics, economics and social structure as did the discovery of the New World (and all without Indians, even ! ) . When Mr. Kellys letter appeared, that it was time to follow the example set by Mr. Ettinger and his bodyfreezing proposal and seek wide publicity with a view towards getting one or more groups together to put the idea into practice. We were wondering if you mght be interested in running a more detailed summary of the work that has been done on the proposal (of which the above is, naturally, only the barest outline) in the magazine. If so, IM appreciate hearing from you. I meant to bring this up when you were up here for Boskone, but I was too busy with arrangements. Thanks again for coming, and I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did. -- Erwin S. 'Filthy Pierre" Broadway, Cambridge, Massachusetts #.    Dear Editor: IPs prediction time again (again?) ! I predict a Hugo for Keith Laumer. His novel. Spaceman, was one of the best (in my opinion) to come along in a long time. My favorite novelette published in IF this year i:: Roger Zelazny's This Mortal Mountain. I also enjoy Larry Niven's stories. My favorite written by him this year is Flatlander. Gray Morrow's cover painting for the August issue was absolutely beautiful! I also enjoyed Wally Wood's artwork on The Winged Helmet. I hope to see more of his artwork in future issues of IF. One of the very good features of your magazine is the 'first" stories you print. Maybe one of these days I'll send in a story. -- Thomas Miller, # Wilton Drive, Baton Rouge, La.  That seems to be it for another month. Don't forget to reserve your copy of the December issue now -- you won't want to miss the exciting conclusion to Hal Clement's underwater novel or the 'Tirst" by one of fandom's favorite sons -- The Editor, IF A new science-fiction magazine with a new concept in publishing Each issue will be filled with stories by Foreign Authors Will give American readers a chance to read the science-fiction stories by Authors popular in the rest of the world. Written and translated by the top writers throughout the world. We hope you will like it. Your Subscription is Your Private Window On the stars in our galaxy The only thing we know about tomorrow is that it hus its roots today. And out of the fantastic facts of today's scientific wonders Galaxy's all-star lineup of contributors weave stories that are sometimes wry, sometimes terrifying -- but always a delight to read. Would you like to join us, next issue and every issue thereafter for years to come, on this fascinating exploration of the fears and foibles of tomorrow? All it takes is a check, a stamp and a minute of your time. (If you prefer not to tear the coupon out of your magazine, just give us the information requested on a plain piece of paper.) From then on the mails will bring Galaxy to your door, with the best stories being written by the best science-fiction writers of all time. Here are some of the famous stories that appeared in Galaxy in its first fifteen years. Will the next fifteen years be as good? Frankly, we don't think so. We think they'll be better!  Yes, start my subscription to Galaxy right away. I enclose  ' my check or money orJer for:  Galaxy Publishing Corp. #I Hudson Street New York, N.Y. #  n # Issues for # ' i # issues for #  Name Address...   City  State Zip Code j U.S. only. Add #c per issue fordgn postage.  Please check wnether  new or O renewal. Baby Is Three Theodore Sturgeon The Ballad of Lost CMell Cordwaincr Smith The Big Time Fritx Leiber The Caves of Steel Isaac Asimov Day After Doomsday Poul Anderson The Demolished Man . Alfred Bestor Do J Wake or Dream? Frank Herbert The Dragon Masters Jack Vance The Fireman (Farenheit #-#) Ray Bradbury Gravy Planet (The Space Merchants; Pohl  Kornbluth Here Gather the Stars (Way Station) Clifford D. Simak Home from the Shore Gordon R. Dickson Hot Planet Hal Clement King of the City Keith Laumer Mindswap Robert Sheckley Med Ship Man Murray Leinster The Men in the Walls The Old Die Rich H. L. Gold The Puppet Alasfers Robert A. Heinlein Surface Tension James Blish The Visitor at the Zoo Damon Knight Wind between the Worlds Lester del Bey  :pattSfned wifti A new science-fiction magazine with a new concept in publishing Each issue will be filled with stories by Foreign Authors Will give American readers a chance to read the science-fiction stories by Authors popular in the rest of the world. Written and translated by the top writers throughout the world. We hope you will like it. Vol. #, No. ia Frederik Pohl, Editor Robert M, Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by C. C. MacApp by Robert E. Margroff and Andrew J. Offutt by James White ' by Hal Clement by Jay Kay Klein by Fritz Lelber by Terry Carr by Roger Deeley by Arthur C. Clarke by Lin Carter IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporation. Robert M. Guinn, President, Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Street, New York, #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All right,,, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company. New York, N.Y. # IF  Guest Editorial A couple of years ag-o I wrote a tale accurately entitled The Longest Science Fiction Story Ever Told, which Fred Pohl duly published on a single page of Galaxy (Because editors have to justify their existence somehow, he renamed it "A Recursion in Metastories." You'll find it in Galaxy for October, #). Near the beginning of this metastory, but an infinite number of words from its end, I referred to The Anticipator by H. G. Wells. Though I encountered this short fantasy some twenty years ago and have never read it since, it left a vivid impression on my mind. It concerned two writers, one of whom had all his best stories published by the other -- before he could even complete them himself. At last, in desperation, he decided that murder was the only cure for this chronic (literally) plagiarism. But, of course, once again his rival beat him to it -- and the story ends with the words: "The anticipator, horribly afraid, ran down a by-street." Now, I would have sworn on a stack of Bibles that this story was written by H. G. Wells. However, some months after its appearance I received a letter from Leslie A. Gritten of Everett, Washington, saying that he couldn't locate it. And Mr. Gritten has been a Wells fan for a long, long time -- he clearly recalls the serialization of The War of the Worlds in the Strand Magazine at the end of the '#'s. As one of the Master's cockney characters would say, Gor Blimey. Refusing to believe that my mental filingsystem had played such a dirty trick on me, I quickly searched through the #-odd volumes of the autographed Atlantic Edition in the Colombo Public Library. (By a charming coincidence, the British Council had just arranged a Wells Centenary Exhibition, and the library entrance was festooned with photos illustrating his background and career.) I soon found that Mr. Gritten was right: there was no such story as The Anticipator in the collect works. Yet published, not one reader has queried the reference. I find this depressing; where are all the Wells fans these days? Now my erudite informant has solved at least part of the mystery. The Anticipator was written by one Morley Roberts; it was first published in # in The Keeper of the Waters (and other stories). I probably encountered it in a Doubleday anthology, Travellers in Time Stern. Yet several problems remain. First of all, why was I so convinced that the story was by Wells? I can only suggest -- and it seems pretty far-fetched, even for my grasshopper mind -- that the similarity of words made me link it subconsciously with The New Accelerator. I would also like to know why this story has stuck so vividly in my memory. Perhaps, like all writers, I am peculiarly sensitive to the dangers of plagiarism. So far (touch wood) I have been lucky; but I have notes for several tales I'm afraid to write until I can be quite sure they're original. (There's this couple, see, who land their spaceship on a new world after their planet has been blown up, and when they've started things all over again you find -- surprise, surprise -- that they're called Adam and Eve.) One worthwhile result of my error was to start me skimming through Wells's short stories again, and I was surprised to find what a relatively small proportion could be called science fiction, or even fantasy. Although I was well aware that only a fraction of his #-odd volumes were S.F., I had forgotten that this was also true of the short stories. A depressing quantity are dramas and comedies of Edwardian life (The Jilting of Jane), rather painful attempts at humor (My First Aeroplane), near-autobiography (A Slip Under the Microscope) or pure sadism (The Cone). Undoubtedly, I am biased, but among these tales such masterpieces as The Star, The Crystal Egg, The Flowering of the Strange Orchid -- and, above all The Country of the Blind -- blaze like diamonds amid costume jewelry. But back to Morley Robert. I know nothing whatsoever about him and wonder if his little excursion in time was itself inspired by The Time Machine, published just a couple of years before The Anticipator. I also wondered which story was actually written -- not published -- first. And why did such an ingenious writer not make more of a name for himself? Perhaps -- I have just been struck by a perfectly horrid thought. If H. G. Wells's contemporary Morley Roberts was ever found murdered in a dark alley, I simply don't want to know about it. -- Arthur C. Clarke Judgment Fled The alien ship swung in orbit, outside Jupiter. Earth had to launch Jts tiny ships to mt it! Illustrated by I I t all began with a small scratch on a time exposure of some star clouds in Sagittarius, and its presence was blamed on mishandling or faulty processing. But a second exposure of the same area showed a similar scratch which began where the first one had left off and traced a path which was unmistaTcably curved, indicating that it was altering its own trajectory and could not therefore be a natural celestial body Immediately every instrument which could be brought to bear, was directed at the Ship. The largest optical instruments showed only a point of light; spectroanalysis indicated a highly reflective surface suggestive of metal, and the great bowls of the radio telescopes gathered nothing at all. By this time the Ship had taken up an orbit some bit of Mars, still without making any attempt to communicate, and the decision was taken to sacrifice the Jupiter probe in an attempt to gain more information about the intruder. As a result there was relayed back to Earth a low-defii ition picture of the vessel which orbited silently and, some thought, implacably like some tremendous battleship cruising off the coast of a tiny, backward island. It made no signal. Nor did it reply in any recognizable fashion to those which were;ng made. For the probe's instruments showed the object to be metallic, shaped like a blunt topedo with a pattern of bulges encircling its mid-section and just under half a mile long. Inevitably there were those who wanted an even closer look, and two small, sophisticated dugout canoes were hastily modified and readied for launching. A very seriously, "that we have not gone far enough into the philosophical implications of this thing. At present that ship is a Mystery, but once we make contact it will then become a Problem. There's a difference, you know." "Not really," Berryman said in a matching tone. "A problem is simply a mystery which has been broken down into a number of handy pieces, some of which are usually related to problems already solved. And far be it from me to impugn the thought processes of a fellow officer, but your stand smacks of intellectual cowardice." "Advocating a greater degree of caution and prior mental preparation is not cowardice," Walters returned. "If we're to begin impugning minds it's my opinion that too much confidence -- you can call it bravery if you like -- is in itself a form of instability which... "What sort of twisted mind is it that can insult a man by calling him brave?" said Berryman, laughing. "It seems to me everyone on this operation wants to be the psychologist except the psychologist. What do you say. Doctor?" McCullough was silent for a mo ment. He was wondering what insensitive idiot it had been who had first likened the horrible sensation he was feeling in his stomach to butterflies. But he knew that the other two men were verbally whistling in the dark and in the circumstances he could do nothing less than make it a trio. He said, 'Tm not a psychologist. Anyway my couch is full at the moment -- I'm in it." Sorry to interrupt, gentlemen, said Control suddenly. '# have to tell you that Colonel Morrison s ship had a three-minute hold at minus eighteen minutes, so your takeoff will not now be simultaneous. Is this understood? Your own countdown is proceeding and is at minus sixty sec onds... nowl "Command pilot here," said Berryman. "Understood. Tell the colonel last man to touch the alien ship is a -- " Dont you think you are all working a little too hard at projecting the image of fearless, dedicated scientists ejchanging airy persiflage within seconds of being hurled into the 'unknown? Your upper lips must be ,so stiff Vm surprised you can still talk with them. Would you agree that you may be over-compensating for a temporary and quite understandable anxiety neurosis? Minus twenty seconds and counting... Eighteen, seventeen sixteen... "You're right, Walters," said Berryman. "Everybody wants to be a psychologist!" Twelve, eleven, ten... "I want off," said Walters. At minus seven seconds? Are you kidding? Four, three, two, one... The acceleration built up until McCullough was sure his body could take no more, and still it increased. Even his eyes felt egg-shaped. His stomach seemed to be rammed tightly against his backbone. How anything as fragile as a butterfly could survive such treatment surprised him, but they were still fluttering away like mad -- until accelerating ceased and his vision cleared, that was, and he was able to look outside. Only then did they become still, paralyzed like himself with wonder. C ontrol and guidance during this most critical stage of the trip was the responsibility of brains both human and electronic on the ground. Their short period of weightlessness ended as the second stage ignited, its three G's feeling almost comfortable after the beating he had taken on the way up. With his head still turned toward the port McCullough watched the splendor of the sunset line slide past below them to be replaced by the great, wooly darkness that was the cloud-covered Pacific. Against this velvet blackness a tiny shooting star fell away from rather than towards Earth -- Morrison's ship. We knew it was the colonel's ship because its flare died precisely three minutes after their own second stage cut out. If everything had gone as planned -- a very big if, despite the advances made since Apollo -- they were now on a collision course with the sixtyof deceleration, already pre-calculated, would insure that the collision would be a gentle one -- if they managed to collide with it at all. For the alien vessel was a perfect example of a point in space. It had position but no magnitude, no detectable radiation, no gravitational field to help suck them in if their IF course happened to be just a little off. The thought of missing the alien vessel completely or having to use so much fuel finding it that they might not be able to return home worried McCullough occasionally. Usually he tried, as he was doing now, to think about something else. He could no longer see Morrison's ship. Either it was too small to be picked out by the naked eye -- at least by McCullough's middle-aged, slightly astigmatic naked eye -- or it was hidden by the glare from the monsoon-season cloud blanket covering Africa and the South Atlantic. But suddenly the colonel was very much with them. P-One calling P-Two, Come in, P-Two. How do you read? "P-Two here," said Berryman and laughed. "Almost deafening, sir, and as clear as the notes of a silver trumpet blowing the Last P... I mean Reveille..." "Freudian slip," murmured Walters. '"Loud and clear is good enough, Berryman. Purple passages . waste oxygen. Have you completed checking your pressurization and life-support system? "Yes, sir. All are Go. 'Good. Take off your suits and all of you get some sleep as soon as possible. Use medication if necessary. At the present time I consider it psychologically desirable for a number of reasons, so go to sleep before your nasty little subconsciouses realize theyve left home. Thafs an order, gentlemen. Good night. A few minutes later, while the other two were helping him out of his suit, Walters said drily, "Even the colonel wants to be one." And Berryman added, "The trouble, Doctor, is that your psychologist's club is not sufficiently exclusive." But the command pilot was wrong in one respect at least. McCullough now belonged to the most exclusive club on Earth, membership in which was reserved for that veay select group of individuals who at some time had left the aforementioned planet. And like all good clubs or monastic orders or crack regiments there were certain rules of behavior to follow. For even in the present day members could find tbemselvgi in serious trouble, very serious tfiuh ble. When this happened they were supposed to follow precedents established by certain founder members who had been similarly unfortunate. They were expected to talk quietly and keep control of themselves until all hope was gone, then perhaps smash their radios so that their wives and friends would not be distressed by their shouting for the help which nobody could possibly give them when their air gave out or their vehicle began to melt around them on re-entry. During the five and a half months it would take them to reach the Ship they would eat, sleep, talk and sweat within a few inches of each other. McCullough wondered if their club's rules of behavior, or esprit de corps or whatever peculiar quality it was that made a group of individuals greater than the sum of its parts, would keep them from suiciding out of sheer loneliness or tearing each other to pieces from utter boredom or disintegrating into madness and death for reasons they could not as yet even imagine. McCullough hoped it would. He was almost sure it would. II T he Prometheus Project was either the result of some very devious thinking, or there had been introduced into it such a multiplicity of objectives that its planners did not know where they were. Even allowing for the hasty mounting of the operation -- the original purpose of the two ships was to have been the setting up of a manned lab and observatory on Deimos -- McCullough's instructions were a mish-mash of insufficient data and ambiguous language. He could follow their reason and even feel sympathy for their problem. The alien vessel beyond the orbit of Mars was an enigma. To solve it they had two small, fragile ships, a double payload which was hopelessly inadequate and six men. If the solution was to be as complete as possible the abilities of the six men must cover the widest possible spread of physical and social science. Since the Ship was obviously the product Of a highly advanced culture, the knowledge possessed by the six men should be complete and extensive. Picking the men -- six healthy, stably intelligent men capable of surviving the.longest journey in human history and asking the right questions at the end of it -- was not an easy task, because they had to choose men capable of collecting the bacon and bringing it home safely. Despite the thousands of scientifically eminent people who demanded to go on the trip, it was the space medics who had, as usual, the final say. Instead of six of the world's acknowledged scientific geniuses there had been chosen four experienced astronauts and two under training who were not even known in scientific circles and were respected only by friends. All that could be said for them was that they had a fairly good chance of surviving the trip. McCullough, according to Berryman, had a subconscious which was dizzy from watching people go around in centrifuges; while Hollis, the supercargo in Morrison's ship, was a physicist working on the development of nuclear power plants for space vessels. All four of the astronauts had in their individual fashions told Hollis and McCullough that they approved of the choice which had been made -- even though they may have been lying diplomatically -- and that the two scientific unknowns should not worry about the things certain green-complexioned, ivory-tower types were saying about them. When they returned home they would all be as famous as anyone could hope to be. Berryman cleared his throat loudly, bringing McCullough's mind back to present time with a rush as he said, "I suggest we do as the man said. Doctor. It's been thirty-one IF hours since we slept. Besides, it will still be there when you wake up." "What will?" asked Walters. "Nothing," said Berryman. "Millions of miles of nothing." "I fell for that one," said Walters. He sighed and with great deliberation closed his eyes. When they were quiet again, waiting for the sedatives to work, McCullough's mind returned to the almost laughable problem of these people who insisted, quite wrongly, that they were his charges. He liked to think that his professional qualifications were necessary to the success of this trip, that he would spend his time making detailed observations and evaluating data gathered on extra-terrestrial physiology, sociology and even psychology although he was not himself a psychologist. But apart from five names, faces, tones of voice and military insignia, McCullough knew very little about his colleagues and self-elected patients. B asically they were well adjusted introverts. An astronaut had no business being anything else. Both Captain Berryman and Major Walters had shown great thoughtfulness and consideration in their dealings with him. Where Colonel Morrison was concerned he had less to go on. The colonel was polite but reserved, and there had been very little prior social contact between them. The same applied to Major Drew. The third member of Morrison's crew was the physicist. Captain Hollis. His rank, like that, of McCullough's, did not mean very much and had probably been given in order to simplify Army paperwork and make it easier for them to 'be ordered to do things. Hollis did not talk much and when he did it was in shy, low-voiced polysyllables. Apparently he got his kicks from playing chess and fixing his friends' TV sets. Then there was Lieutenant-Colonel McCullough, of course, a complex personality whose motivations McCullough had thought he understood until he found himself volunteering for this job. He had been underidea being to have him share one of the orbiting laboratories with a number of lab animals and make a study of life processes in the weightless condition. Like the others he was unmarried. And this was probably a good thing, despite the generally held belief that marriage gave added strength and emotional stability to an astronaut, because Prometheus might very well become a suicide mission. McCullough wriggled on his couch even though all positions were equally comfortable in the weightless condition. Beyond the port Earth was in darkness, with the Moon just about to slip over the sharply curved horizon. Cloud masses and continental outlines were gray and indistinct, with the stars above the horizon and the cities below it shining with the same intensity, so that the whole planet seemed transparent and insubstantial, like a world of ectoplasm. It was as if the final war had started and finished while he wasn't looking and the whole world had died, McCullough thought rather iancifully as he slipped over the edge of sle, and a planet-ized ghost pursoed its orbit around the Sun ... But when he awakened some hours later the Earth was again solid and condensed into a bright sphere which was just small enough to fit within the rim of the pK)rt. Berryman and Walters were already awake. When they saw that McCullough had joined them the command pilot passed out breakfast. They were squeezing the last of it from their tubes when there was an interruption. 'This is Prometheus Control, Good morningy gentlemen! tf you have nothing better to do, and we are sure you havent, we would like you to take your first lecture. We have now decided to increase the frequency of these lectures from two to three per day. The first one, which should prove very helpful when you reach the Ship, deals with multi-dimensional geometry, "Ugh," said Berryman. "Drop dead," said Walters. "No comment," said McCullough. Thank you for your cooperation, gentlemen. If you will have pencils and paper ready -- " Negative, negative! the voice of Colonel Morrison broke in. F-One to Prometheus Control and P-Two, I advise against taking written notes. Paper is limited and may be needed for purposes of communications and supplementary sketches for the photographs taken at the Ship. 'A good point, Colonel. Very well, mental notes only until a decision has been taken in this matter. And now, if youre ready to begin T here was a short silence broken by two bursts of static and an apologetic cough. Then a new voice said: 'Well, now. The subject of this lecture may itself need an explanation, and it is this: from our observations of the approach, physical mass and general appearance of the alien ship, we are convinced that some method of faster-than-light propulsion is being used. Since Einbe impossible in this spacetime continuum we must fall back on those vaguer theories which suggest that the physical laws governing this continuum may be in some fashion sidestepped by travelling along or within some highly speculative hyperdimension, But as things stand you would very probably not know a hyperdimensional propulsion device if it stood up and bit you. And neither in all probability would I, There was a small, dry, academic cough. Then the voice went on. "#o the purpose of this lecture is, by outlining current thinking on this subject together with our speculations and supporting math, to give you a slightly better chance of recognizing a hyperdimensional generator if you should happen to see one, 'Subsequent lectures on a wide range of subjects are expected to include ,,,, McCullough was beginning to feel concern for a future which now promised to be positively rather than negatively boring. He hoped the Prometheus people knew what they were doing and had taken pains to pick the right kind of lecturer. When IF thb idea had been first mentioned they had agreed that without visual aids or textbooks the process of learning new and difficult subjects would be anything but easy. If handled properly, the lectures would help negate boredom by engendering a competitive spirit among the two ships' crews. This would be a very good thing -- provided it did not cause some people to appear less bright than their fellows, a situation which could open the way to all sorts of conflicts and emotional disturbances. But all this had been taken into consideration, the Prometheus astronauts had been told, and any harmful side effects would be guarded against. Probably time alone would tell, McCullough thought. At least this lecturer possessed a rudimentary sense of humor. He was saying, "To give you an example, our knowledge of extra-terrestrial biology, physiology and sociology is nil. But in future lectures we will prepare you to a certain extent for whatever you may meet by considering in detail the sexual mores of certain isolated cultures on our own planet and the exotic reproductive mechanisms of our more alien terrestrial animals, insects and plants, and by formulating the type of social system these creatures might be expected to develop were they to rise to a human level of intelligence. All this is simply an indication of what you may expect from the various specialist lecturers who will follow me. Before I commence my series of lectures it might be better if I introduced myself. I am Doctor -- of Philosophy, not Medicine -- Edward' Ernest Pugh, Professor of Mathematics at the University of Coleraine and Director of its Department of Extra-Mural Studies.' Berryman turned to stare very solemnly out of the Earth-side port. He said, "Just how extra-mural can a student get?" Walters and McCullough laughed, and Professor Pughasked them to begin by considering a tesseract. Ill ime passed. Their education grew while Earth and the apparent size of their vehicle shrank. When the bulkheads pressed in on them too closely they took turns going outside, treating incipient claustrophobia with threatened agoraphobia. At least that was how Berryman described the process. But he talked that way, as they all did, to hide his real feelings. The simple truth was that on the end of a long safety line, with their vehicle looking like some surrealistic toy five hundred yards away, the whole of Creation was spread out around them in sharp focus and perfect #-D, and it was not a sight which could be ealy talked about. With the increased distance from Earth and Prometheus Control, communications difficulties also grew. Not only did periodic solar interference make incoming messages barely intelligible, the time-lag between outgoing questions and incoming answers was more than eight minutes. When it became necessary to turn up the gain on theijr receiver because a whisper of intelligence was trying to fight its way through a thunder of mush, the time-lag was more than simply irritating. Finally even the colonel could stand it no longer. You may be transmitting a lecture on production methods in the aircraft industry, Morrison enunciated slowly and with sarcasm, "but it sounds like a tape of Omaha Beach on DDay. You are fighting a losing battle. Give up until these blasted sunspots have gone back to sleep, at least! Eight minutes later a tiny voice fought its way through a barrage of static to say,... Your message incompletely received... do not have battle tactics... Operation Overload immediately available... loss to understand this request... You misunderstood my message, Prometheus Control, the colonel's voice returned, louder but with less clarity of diction. '# requested that you cease transmission ,... A lecture scheduled on Games Theory, but must warn you... Alien conception of military tactics may not agree... Eisenhower... Dont talk when Vm interrupting, dammit! For perhaps five minutes Control battled against the static with a complete lack of success, then the colonel's voice came again. 'P-One to P-Two. You may break contact with Control without their permission. I take full responsibility. For a long time they simply luxuriated in the peace and quiet, then Walters said angrily, "You know, that noise was bad. You, sir, were practically tying yourself in knots and the doctor had his eyes squeezed shut and all his teeth showing. This is not good. Noise, any loud or unnecessary or unpleasant noise, especially in a confined space like this, makes me irritable. I'm beginning to dread these lectures three times a day. Somebody should do something about them. Somebody with authority!" "I agree," said McCullough. "Of course you agree!" Walters's voice was high-pitched, almost shrewish. "You always agree, but that's all you do!" "I think Morrison intends doing something," Berryman said quickly. He looked worriedly from Walters to McCullough and back, then went on. "And the doctor is a rather agreeable man, if a little hard to pin down at times. Myself, I expected him to look clinical occasionally and perhaps talk a bit dirty. At very least he should have spent a few days mentally dissecting us, explaining the real truth about our relationship with our first teddy bear and generally showing us what monstrous perverts we are under our warm, friendly exteriors. But he doesn't talk like a psychologist, or look like one or even admit to being one." Berryman was trying hard to smooth things down. And he was succeeding, but with his eyes he was asking the doctor for a little help. "Well, now," said McCullough gravely, "you must understand firstly that, if anything, I would be an Eysenckian rather than a Freudian psychologist and so would never have had an occasion to use a couch professionally. But there was one period IF when I did some valuable research, if I do say so myself, on the behavior and psychology of worms. "There were some quite intriguing incidents," McCullough went on. 'They had numbers instead of names, so there is no question of an unethical disclosure of privileged information, and they had such a low order of intelligence that to get through to them at all we had to stimulate the clitellum with a mild electric... Berryman shook his head. "Well, I did try," said McCullough, projecting a hurt expression. He went on, "As for making noises like a psychologist and pushing your mental buttons, this would be a waste of time. You are both well adjusted, self-aware, intellectually and emotionally honest and already well versed in the terminology, so that any problem which arises is immediately recognized, classified and dealt with by the person concerned. So there isn't anything for me to do even if I was supposed to do it." For perhaps a minute there was silence, then Walters said, "I'm sorry I blew up at you. Doctor. If I'd been using my head at all I should have realized that anyone who turns nasty with a psychologist ends up being flattered to death." "My point exactly!" said McCullough to Berryman. "He can even see through my subtle attempts at manipulation by flattery!" Berryman nodded and said, "Now if only the aliens on the Ship are worms..." B ut on a wider, more objective level the situation was definitely not normal. The space inside P-Two not taken up with control, communications and life-support systems, left very little room for either movement or privacy. Their total living space was a hollow cylinder seven feet in diameter and four deep, and this was further reduced by couches, control consoles and instrumentation which projected into it. Nobody could move more than a few inches without sticking an elbow or a knee in someone's face or stomach. Even the sanitary arrangements gave visual privacy only. And because their tanked oxygen was restricted, trips outside the ship were kept down to a total of two hours per week, and they just could not be alone for the length of time required by normal introverts. Instead they lay strapped loosely into their couches, exercising for an hour or so each day by pitting one muscle against another, taking or not talking, listening to incoming signals and smelling to high heaven. In living quarters which compared unfavorably with the most unenlightened penal institutions, the crew of P-Two -- and P-One, presumably -- shared a not always peaceful co-existence. They tried to be polite and considerate to each other, but not too much so. The efforts of guarding one's tongue continually, of always being polite, would have been so much of a strain that the emotional backlash would have led inevitably to violence. Instead they were normally badtempered or sarcastic, while remaining at all times sensitive to potentially dangerous changes of atmosphere. If they sensed that the subject of their displeasure or sarcasm was becoming too strongly affected by it, the remarks were allowed to grow to ridiculous and laughable proportions. They became adept at walking this psychological tightrope. But they were subject to severe external pressures as well. Earth had decided to investigate the Ship with a group of trained astronauts rather than a cross section of the best scientific brains, and all things considered it had been a sound decision. But Earth desperately wanted things to go right at the Ship. They wanted a smooth social and cultural contact, and they badly wanted to find out everything they possibly could about alien science and technology. As a result, they were trying to cover themselves both ways by doing everything possible to make scientific investigators out of their astronauts. The low signal to noise ratio during some of the lectures was merely an added irritant. The real trouble was that the lectures themselves were a constant reminder to every one of them of what lay at the end of the trip. Any well adjusted person could face up to a problem once it was defined. But when nothing at all was known about it other than that it was in the life-and-death category and that it must somehow be solved, even the sanest personality could show signs of strain. j They were now three weeks away in time from the alien ship... After one lecture so speculative that it was almost pure science fiction, Walters said, "It would be nice if we could simply hold our hands out in the universal gesture of peace. But what is the universal gesture of peace to an octopus or an intelligent vegetable?" McCullough said, "We don't usually make gestures of peace at animals or vegetables, so their gestures towards us are either defensive or hostile. Tortoises retreat under their shells, octopuses squirt ink at us and plants grow thorns if they are able. Offhand I'd say that if an animal or being behaves normally when it is approached by a stranger -- that is, if it doesn't take any offensive or defensive action -- then it is either peacefully inclined or suffering from an impairment of sensory equipment or brainpower. But this is an unsatisfactory answer, since it may involve a being whose normal reactions will be just as strange to us as its abnormal ones. I don't know." "Let us suppose," Berryman said, "that the Ship is solidly packed with a vitamin-enriched sandy substance -- except for certain hollowed-out areas for power and control systems -- with provision made for renewing the food element and eliminating wastes. Furniture, bedding and so on would be virtually non-existent and control levers and... and push pads, they would have to be, rather than pushbuttons... would be positioned all the way around and perhaps inside the mechanism they were designed to control. This being would curl itself around and insinuate itself into the machine it was operating..." "Not worms again!" said Walters. "I'm talking about an intelligent, wormlike life-form," the command pilot went on. "A worm who stayed IF out of its burrow long enough to look up and wonder at the stars." "Oh, very poetic," said Walters. "Shaddup, you. A worm who developed intelligence and the degree of cooperation which made possible civilization and technological progress. And now, Doctor, suppose you were confronted by a member of such a species. With your specialist knowledge of the physiology and motivations of what amounts to the aboriginal ancestors of these beings, could you arrive at an understanding with them?" McCullough thought for a moment, then said, "An analogy would be that of an alien being able to understand a human being from data gained while examining a baboon. I don't think it is possible. In any case the intellectual and evolutionary gap between your star-travelling worms and mine is much greater than that between a man and a baboon. This is why we are being subjected to these lectures on the mating habits of armadillos and things." "Things, he says." Berryman made a face and began passing out lunch. They nearly always ate after a discussion about the beings on the Ship, but Berryman and Walters had stopped mentioning the psychological connection between feelings of insecurity and eating. The only person to speak at all during the meal was Walters. "You know. Doctor, there must be something you can dp!" T hree days later something came up which the doctor could do. Something, apparently, which only the doctor could do. 'Morrison here. Put the doctor on, please "Yes, sir," said McCullough. Captain Hollis is having trouble. A... a skin condition, among other things. He yvont sleep without hecvy sedation and were running out of that. I realize it is a lot to ask, but Vd prefer you to see him rather" than prescribe from where you are. Can you come over to P-One, Doctor? Instinctively McCullough looked out at the stars. He could not see P-One because it was visible only on the radar screen. The last time anyone had seen it was when they were being inserted into orbit above Earth. He cleared his throat and said, "Yes, of course." At this distance there is an element of risk involved. "I realize that." Very well. Thank you. When the colonel had signed off Walters gave McCullough a long, steady look, then held up three fingers. He said, "One, you're stupid. Two, you're brave. Or three, you've been brainwashed." IV T he personnel launcher was a lightalloy rigid pipe fifty feet long, built up in sections and slotted together without projections of any kind. It was assembled forward so as to form a continuation of the center line of the ship, and the charge which tossed its human missile into space was matched by an equal thrust directed aft so as to avoid the necessity of course corrections. On this occasion the whole ship had to be aimed at the target on a radar bearing rather than a visual sighting. Berryman threaded the launching harness onto the first section of pipe and, while Walters completed the erection, the command pilot harnessed McCullough to the stupid contraption. It was a little odd that McCullough regarded it as a contraption now, when on Earth, after studying drawings and operating principles and seeing the demonstration films, he had considered it an ingenious and foolproof device. The harness itself was a somewhat lopsided fabrication of thin metal tubing built around the hollow cylinder which fitted over the launching pipe, with the bulky oxygen and reaction tanks grouped on one side and the by webbing on the other. But when a man was attached to the harness and his arms drawn back and joined behind him and his legs bent vertically at the knees -- there were special cuffs and stirrups fitted so that this could be done comfortably -- the device began to assume a degree of symmetry. With the man added, the center of thrust roughly coincided with the center of gravity, so that the system had only a slight tendency to spin after launching. "The push will send you off at just under fifteen miles per hour," Berryman told him for the third or fourth time, "so if our shooting is very good and you hit P-One at this speed it would be like running into a brick wall. You would hurt yourself, you might damage or rupture your suit and the impact could wreck the other ship." Dont joke about things like that. Berryman! Besides, youHl make him nervous" "I wasn't joking, Colonel," the command pilot replied. Then to McCullough he went on, "I was trying to make you cautious rather than nervous, Doctor. Just remember to check your velocity with respect to the other ship in plenty of time. Start decelerating when you are about a mile off, come to a stop not too close, then edge in on your gas motor. You have a good reserve of reaction mass, your air will last for six hours and the trip will take roughly three and a half hours since P-One is over fifty miles away." "Suppose it isn't there after three and a half hours," said McCullough. "It's a very small ship and..." "Such morbid imaginings," said Walters severely, "ill behoove a psychological gentleman." "You're ready to go, Doctor," said Berryman. "Give me ten minutes to get inside and check the radar bearing again. Walters, keep clear of the launcher." The launch itself was an anticlimax, just a comfortable, solid push that reminded McCullough of the first few seconds in an express elevator. Then he cleared the guide tube and was tumbling very slowly end over end. Quickly he withdrew his arms and legs from their retaining clips and, when P-Two came into sight again, spread them out to check his spin. Walters and Berryman did not talk, although he could hear the sound of their breathing in his phones, and McCullough kept silent as well. The ship dwindled in size very slowly -- it did not appear to move away from him. IF just to grow smaller -- so that the launcher was dismantled and the tiny figures of the two pilots had re-entered the lock before distance made the finer details of the vehicle run together into a silvery triangular blur. Just before it disappeared completely McCullough rotated himself until he was facing his direction of travel and began searching for an identical blur which would be Morrison's ship, even though the soonest he could hope to see it would be in another two hours. The colonel had suggested that he sleep on the way over, leaving his receiver switched on at full volume so that Morrison could wake him when it became necessary. McCullough had refused this suggestion for two reasons. The one he gave the colonel was that he did not want to be half asleep when he closed with P-One -- making contact might be a tricky enough job with him wide awake... The other reason he did not tell anyone. It was his fear of waking up with no ship in sight, beyond all help or hope of help, alone... He was very much aware of the safety line coiled neatly at his waist, and of the fact that the other end of it was not attached to anything. But that was just the beginning... I n the weightless condition no muscular effort was required to keep arrhs and legs outstretched, and in that attitude spin was reduced to a minimum. But gradually the position began to feel awkward and ridiculous and, in some obscure fashion, unprotected. All around him the stars hung bright and close and beautiful, but the blackness between them went on and on forever. He told himself truthfully that he enjoyed being out here, that there was nothing to threaten him, nothing to be immediately afraid of and nobody to even see his fear if he should show it. He was all alone. His rate of spin began to increase slowly, then rapidly as his outstretched arms and legs contracted until his knees were drawn up against his stomach and his arms, with the elbows tucked in as far as his suit would allow, folded tightly across his chest. But it was not until he realized that his eyes were squeezed shut that McCullough began to wonder what exactly it was that was happening to him. He badly needed to straighten himself out, in both senses of the word. But for some odd reason his body had passed beyond the control of his mind, just as the various layers of his mind were no longer under the control of his will. He was feeling rather than thinking. It was as if he was an enormous, dry sponge soaking up, being saturated in, loneliness. The purely subjective loneliness of being unknown and unnoticed in a crowd, the actual loneliness of being on a deserted beach where the uncaring natural phenomena of wind and wave press all around and the awful, lost feeling of the child in the night who believes, whether rightly or wrongly, that he is unwanted and unloved. The feeling which was welling up inside McCullough was loneliness distilled, concentrated and ultimately refined. Anything in his previous experience was like comparing a slight over-exposure to the sun with third degree bums. He crouched into himself even more tightly while the unseen stars whirled around him and the hot tears forced their way between his squeezed-together lids. Then the awful feeling of loneliness began to withdraw, or perhaps he was withdrawing from it. The weightless spinning was oddly pleasant. There was a timeless, hypnotic quality about it. The sensation was like the moment after a tumble into deep water when it is impossible to tell if one is upside down or not, and yet the warm salt water is supporting and protecting and pressing close... "'Say somethingl" shouted McCullough. "Something," said Berryman promptly.  Anything wrong. Doctor?' "Not... not really, sir," said McCullough. "Whatever it was... I'm all right now." ""Good! I thought you were sleeping after all -- you haven't made a sound for over two hours. We should be just about visible to you now." McCullough straightened and slowed his spin. The stars rose majestically above the upper rim of his visor, reached zenith and then slowly set between his feet. When the sun came around he covered it with his hand so as not to be blinded, and he searched the sky. But the two bright obto be P-One -- they were probably Sirius and Jupiter, but he was so disoriented that he could not really be very sure. "I can't find you." T here must have been an edge of panic in his tone because Morrison said quickly, Youre doing fine. Doctor. Our radar shows a solid trace for P-Two, If you were off course to any large extent there would be two traces, so any divergence is minor, Look around you carefully." Perhaps ten minutes went by, then Morrison said, ""When you were launched, our position with respect to your ship was approximately ten degrees below and fifteen degrees to the right of the central star in the right half of the W in Cassiopeia, or above and to the left of the left center star if you're turned around and it looks like an M, Use Cassiopeia as your center and search outwards into Perseus, Andromeda and Cepheus -- do you get the idea? The closer you are to us the greater will be our apparent displacement, We should be the brightest object in sight by now. You should begin deceleration in seven and one half minutes..." And if he did not decelerate McCullough would go past P-One, possibly without even seeing it. But if he decelerated without seeing it and directing his thrust in the right section of sky the chances were that he would go off at a tangent or shoot past the ship at double his present velocity. If that happened he doubted very much whether his air or his reaction mass would be sufficient for him to find his way back. McCullough tried not to pursue that line of thought. He tried so hard that before he realized it his knees were drawn up and his arms pressed tightly against his chest again, ib; and the stars were swirling around him like a jeweled blizzard. He swore suddenly and starfished again, forcing his mind to concentrate on the slowly wheeling heavens so that he could impose some sort of order on what had become a mass of tiny, unidentifiable lights. He viewed them with his head straight and tilted to each side, or he tried to imagine them upside down, and gradually he was able to see them with the imaginary lines connecting one to the other which gave them the shapes of Hunters and Archers and Crabs. He realized suddenly that as well as spinning head over heels he had also been turning sideways, and he was able to identify Capella, which was hanging out beyond his left hip. Capella had picked up a very strange companion. As quickly as possible McCullough lined himself up on the object, placed hands and feet into the cuffs and stirrups, then said, "I have you. Standing by to decelerate." '#I eight seconds, Doctor, And I must say you cut it close... Now! A little later Morrison said, We can see your gas discharge. Doctor. Very nice shooting, P-Two. From the other ship there came sounds of Berryman and Walters being modest. McCullough's pre-calculated period of deceleration ceased, leaving him barely three hundred yards from the other ship, where two tiny figures were already crawling out of the airlock and onto the hull. He aimed himself carefully and jetted slowly towards them. Morrison said, As you know. Doctor, there is no privacy and very little space for a physical examination in the control module, so Drew and myself will erect the launcher for your return while you have a look at Captain Hollis. Take your time -- within reason, of course -- and signal with the airlock lamp when youve finished. You may not want us to be listening with our suit radios There was little conversation after that until McCullough made contact with the hull and negotiated the airlock. He found himself in a control module which was in every respect identical tb the one on the other ship. It even smelled as bad, and differed only in the figure occupying the supernumary's position. McCullough gave Hollis a long, sympathetic, clinical look and then sighed. Unoriginally he said, "What seems to be the trouble?" V I t was a simple question but McCullough knew the answer would be a complicated one. Hollis was a distressed and deeply troubled man. There was, of course, no provision for taking baths on the Prometheus expedition, but the crews had periodic alcohol rubdowns to unclog their pores, the alcohol being filtered out and reclaimed by the air circulation system. While their meals lacked bulk they contained all the necessary vitamins. Even so, as McCullough peeled the one piece coverall from Hollis' shoulders and arms he could not help thinking about ancient sailing ships with water going green in their casks and the crews down with scurvy or worse. ' IF A large area of the physicist's body had obviously not known the alcohol pad for months. The skin was clogged and dry and scaling, and his arms, chest and shoulders were covered with raw patches and sores, the condition extending up to his face and neck. Despite having no fingernails to speak of it was plain that Hollis had been continually picking or rubbing at them through his coveralls until his body must have become one great, livid itch. "Can you remember when this trouble started?" McCullough asked quietly, trying to ignore the pricklings of the sympathetic itch that was creeping over his own body. "About... about nine weeks out," Hollis answered. His eyes would not meet McCullough's and his hands twitched and crawled all over his body. He went on, "I suppose it started about two weeks after Drew let slip . , . After I found out what they were doing. But I can't tell you about that." "Why not?" said McCullough, smiling. "I don't shock very easily, you know." Hollis looked startled and for a moment he almost laughed. Then he said quickly, apologetically, "I'm sorry, I gave you the wrong impression. It isn't shocking like that. They... they have a secret. They do have a secret! Of course they don't know I know about it. Walters and Berryman aren't in on it, either. Or you. But it's bad. You've no idea how bad. But I'm sorry -- I can't tell you about it, I don't know how you'd react. You might let something slip to Morrison. Or you might blow the whole thing wide open and be a party to... I suppose it would be mutiny. I'm sorry, it wouldn't be fair to burden you with this thing. I... I don't want to talk about it." But it was quite obvious that he did want to talk about it, desperately, and that McCullough would have very little coaxing to do to have this deep, dark, desperate secret revealed to him in its entirety. He said, still smiling, "I expect you know best. But it would have been nice to take back a juicy piece of gossip to the other ship..." "This is serious, damn you!" "Very well," McCullough said, less pleasantly. "Your present condition is something we will have to talk about. And because I prefer the talk to be private, and Morrison and Drew have a limited supply of air out there, we will have to cut a few corners. "Since everyone on this expedition seems to be very well informed on the subjects of psychiatry and psychology," he went on, smiling again, "I'll assume that you have a fair understanding of the operation of the subconscious mind. You will be aware of the perfectly normal pressures, conflicts of personality and basic insecurities to which all of us are subject, also of the fact that these are seriously aggravated by our present environment. This being so, you must realize that your physical trouble, this unsightly and uncomfortable skin condition, has a purely psychological basis. There are no germs, no vitamin deficiencies, nothing to which you would be allergic on the ship." If Berryman and Walters could hear me now, McCullough thought briefly. The trouble was it was so easy to talk like a psychologist. He went on, "Well now, I realize that being separated from the rest bad enough. But if you have been rejected, or feel that you have been rejected by the other men in the ship, that could be the initial cause of your trouble. Your evident anxiety over this secret you have uncovered will not have helped matters." McCullough had an almost overwhelming urge to scratch his left armpit through his spacesuit, and another sympathetic itch raged behind his right knee. He continued, "A rejected person tends to become selfconscious and much more aware of himself both physically and mentally. Your body becomes much more sensitive, even hypersensitive, to stimuli which are normally ignored. Your trouble probably began with an itchy scalp or earlobe which you scratched almost without thinking. But gradually, though constant repetition and irritation, the psychosomatic itch became a real one. "This is an extreme over-simplification, of course," McCullough said. "Doubtless there were many other factors which contributed to your present sorry state. But right now we should do something positive about alleviating your present condition -- with something more than lanolin since that would relieve only the physical symptoms. Also, since the axiom that a trouble shared is a trouble halved is so old that and true that it was used before psychology was invented, I would like to know what the other two are keeping secret which distresses you so much. I'll be discreet, of course..." He let the sentence hang, but obviously Hollis needed more coaxing. McCullough tried a different tack. He said, "What is Morrison like as a person? And Drew? How have their relations towards you changed since the beginning of the trip? Be as objective as you can." A person could say an awful lot about themselves by the way they talked about someone else. A s he began to talk Hollis may have thought that he was being objective, and McCullough, too, lost quite a lot of his objectivity as he listened. He began to feel angry with Morrison and Drew, particularly with the colonel. For despite this phenomenal brain Hollis had always been the shy, timid, eager-to-please type, and the necessary allowances should have been made. As his relations with the other two had steadily worsened, and in an attempt to get on better terms with them again, his timidity had increased to ridiculous and quite irritating proportions for a grown man. He had abased himself and fawned and generally carried on like a frightened dog. This was not the way Hollis told it, of course. McCullough was reading between the lines. It had started because the colonel and Drew knew each other long before either of them were connected with astronautics. They had served together briefly in southeast Asia and Drew had done Morrison some sort of favor. Hollis had been unable to ascertain whether the favor had been IP sordid or sublime, whether it involved white slavery, the black market of just saving the colonel's life. As the weeks went past the two had talked together more and more often about their small war, mentioning people and places and making stupid, in-group jokes. Hollis was excluded to an increasing extent from these conversations and when, out of sheer desperation, he tried to join in, he usually made a mess of it and stopped the conversation stone dead. Listening to the physicist, McCullough could not help thinking of his own ship. He hesitated to make comparisons with the two comedianpsychologists on P-Two and the sometimes artificial atmosphere of good cheer they generated, but if Morrison and Drew had made a similar effort Hollis would probably not be in his present condition. From his knowledge of Hollis during training he thought the physicist, once he got over his initial shyness and timidity, would have been a very pleasant and stimulating person to have on a long voyage. Instead they had talked about their jungle air-war as if it had been some kind of exclusive holiday in a language which excluded Hollis. Then they had gone on to talk about another matter -- again in the cryptic, slangy manner the physicist was not supposed to understand. But Hollis had been able to understand. A little at first, then later he had been able to piece together the whole frightful operation. He freely admitted to McQillough that he was uneducated where such things as women and power politics were concerned, because so much of his life had been spent in collecting degrees, but this did not mean that he was stupid. "This was when you became restless and itchy, I take it," McCullough broke in at that point, "and you began to irritate the others. How did they react?" "The colonel didn't react at all," said Hollis. "He just looked longsuffering and stopped talking to me completely. Drew swore at me for a time, then he went the same way. They started going outside together between lectures, connecting their air lines to the ship supply so as not to waste tanked air. They switched off their radios sometimes and talked by touching helmets. But there was sound conduction along the return air line, and sometimes I could make out a word here and there. Enough to know what was going on. "Did you know," Hollis rushed on, "that the hold at take-off was deliberate? That Morrison has made no attempt to close the distance between the two ships? Fuel conservation, he says. But your ship is expendable, did you know that? They've discussed all sorts of hypothetical approaches and tactics to use against the alien ship, the desirability of an armed as opposed to an unarmed approach... Hollis's arms were partly folded, and he was tearing absentmindedly at his forearms with fingernails which had been gnawed too short to do any real damage. Suddenly he stopped scratching, closed his eyes tightly and said, "I'm sorry. I didn't want to tell you. But you've a right to know, Doctor. P-One is carrying a Dirty Annie!" D irty Annie was a nuclear device which was a little too destructive and long-lasting in its aftereffects to be called tactical. McCullough was silent for a moment as he thought over all the implications of what he had heard. Then he said, "This is serious." It was dangerously ambiguous, he realized as soon as he said it. But Hollis had not noticed that. The physicist was talking furiously, apologizing for sharing his worries with the doctor, pleading with him not (to tell the colonel and to do something about Morrison and Drew, simultaneously. McCullough listen with half his mind while the other half cringed with sympathy. Not all of the sympathy was for Hollis. Morrison and Drew could not have had a very pleasant time either, driven as they had been into long periods of unscheduled extra-vehicular 'activity. They may well have been guilty of thoughtlessness in their dealings with Hollis, but contheir suits. The P-hips could not afford the weight penalty of carrying spare spacesuits, must less atomic bombs. McCullough wondered suddenly what shape his own delusion would have taken, what particular nightmare his own subconscious would have dredged up, if Walters and Berryman had rejected him. An atomic bomb was perhaps a toosimple form for a physicist's nightmare to take, but then at heart Hollis was a very simple man. There still remained the question of his treatment. Very quietly and seriously McCullough said, "Naturally I shall not mention this to the colonel or Drew. At the proper time I may discuss it with Walters and Berryman -- but they won't talk out of turn either. It's hard to say exactly what we must do about it until the time comes, but when it does remember that we will be four agains their two. And remember this as well. The problem isn't yours alone any more. Three of your friends will be helping you solve it. They may even, since they are not so close to it as you are and may thus be able to consider the problem more objectively, solve it for you. Think about this, won't you? Think about it really hard." McCullough paused for a moment, then went on to say. "You have already realized that your condition is directly attributable to worry about this bomb. Anyone with an ounce of sensitivity in them would have reacted in much the same fashion. But there is no necessity to worry now -- at least to the extent where it affects you physically. "You may be surprised how quickly this skin condition clears up," he continued, "and how comfortable you will begin to feel generally. The colonel will be surprised, too, and for that reason I'll IF leave a supply of medication to heflp the process along. Morrison will assume that the salve and tablets are effecting a cure, but this iS' a necessary subterfuge since you can't very well tell him the real cause of your improvement -- the fact that his secret is now common property. But in order to further allay his suspicions I will have to be very tough -- or appear to be very tough -- on you." A yTcCullough was going to be iVA very tough with Drew and the colonel as well. He was going to insist that Morrison pad and bandage the patient's hands so that he would be unable to scratch himself until his skin condition had a chance to heal, which meant that Hollis would have to be fed and generally wet-nursed by the other two men. Drew would probably come in for most of the work, but the application of salve and the checking of Hollis's condition -- McCullough would insist on daily progress reports -- would be a two-man job. In short, Hollis must no longer be treated as an outcast, and Morrison and Drew would be made to realize that psychosomatic leprosy was not catching. Drew and the colonel might not be too gentle in their treatment of the patient at first, it would be embarrassing for all concerned and the atmosphere would be anything but warm and friendly. But at least they would not be ignoring Hollis, and that was an important first step. Later, other steps would suggest themselves. McCullough was becoming confident that it would only be a matter of time before the physicist was back to normal and the relationships inside P-One more... harmonious. At no time did McCullough consider the possibility of the colonel refusing to cooperate. In the medical area Morrison was outranked, and he was not the type to . disobey a lawful order. Later, as they were all crammed into the control module, McCullough was relieved and pleased at the reception given his suggestions for treating Hollis. It was now apparent that the other two had felt a certain amount of guilt over the way they had behaved towards the physicist and were very anxious to make it up to him. It restored McCullough's faith in people, especially in cold, withdrawn and not very friendly people like Morrison! and Drew. He would have liked to have a long, private talk with the two men as well, if only to get their side of the business, but in the circumstances that might not be possible without running the risk of having Hollis think he had acquired another enemy instead of three friends... He had a lot to think about on the way back, and this time he kept his hands and feet in their cuffs and stirrups and his eyes wide open until he reached P-Two again and Berryman and Walters were helping him out of his suit and he was saying, in a tone much more serious than he had intended, "It's nice to be home again." VI R adio interference had all but disappeared, so that the lectures, music, last-minute instructions and reminders that this was an epoch-making event and would they please not do anything silly poured in on them constantly and so clearly that they had no real excuse to switch off. They were told that they must at all costs remember and apply the knowledge gained during their trip out. But at the same time they must not hesitate to forget all of their scientific, sociological and psychological theories and preconceptions if the situation warranted it. They were told to do, or not do, this several times an hour. One did not have to be a psychologist to realize that the people at Prometheus Control had worked themselves into a fine state of jitters. "The awful black immensity of space," said Walters sourly during one of the rare radio silences. "The vast and aching loneliness between the stars. The unutterable, souldestroying boredom. Dammit, they won't even give us ten minutes peace and quiet to feel bored in Shaking his head, Berryman intoned, "Is some superhuman extraterrestrial intelligence already brushing our minds with unfelt tendrils of thought, sizing us up, judging us and perhaps with us the whole human rce? Or is some bug-eyed bugger sitting at a rocket launcher just waiting for us to come into range?" "We've been over all this before!" said McCullough, suddenly angry at the pilot for bringing up the subject which they all wanted to leave alone. Then awkwardly he tried to turn it into a joke by adding, "Three times in the last hour." Thrust in minus thirty seconds, P-Two. Stand by, P-One. There was a note of self-satisfaction overlaying the tension in the voice of Control. Considering the fact that their computations had resulted in them hitting an impossibly small target with both ships, their smugness was perhaps justified. But McCullough wondered, a little cynically, how pleased an arrow was with the archer when a bulls-eye or a miss into the sandbags would result in an equally violent headache... Deceleration was a strangely uncomfortable sensation after so many months of weightlessness. On Morrison's ship thrust was delayed by several seconds to allow P-One to draw closer to P-Two -- but not too close. It had been decided that Berryman's ship would approach the alien vessel directly to within a distance of one mile, with the command pilot reporting back every yard of the way and using his initiative if something untoward occurred. With P-One's more powerful transmitter Morrison would relay these reports to Control, advising Berryman if or when necessary, and Control would do nothing but listen. Because of the radio time lag anything they might say would come too late to be useful. All decisions on procedure in the area of the alien ship were thus the responsibility of Colonel Morrison. IF Berryman could exercise a little initiative to begin with, but once the situation was evaluated all major decisions would be taken by the colonel. As a precautionary measure the thrust and attitude of P-One had been modified so as to bring it to a stop fifty miles short of the alien ship. McCullough wondered what Hollis was making of that, I n the three weeks since he had visited him the physicist's condition, both physical and mental, had improved enormously. Hollis had spoken to him several times and had said so -- without, of course, mentioning the Dirty Annie business. Naturally he could not discuss his proiblem in detail on the intership radio, but McCullough felt sure that Hollis himself now realized that he had been imagining things, that he had displayed all the classic symptoms -- together with a few which were uniquely his own -- of the persecution complex. On the radar screen the target showed as a pulsing blob of light which crept steadily down the distance scale. In the telescope the Ship grew and spread until it overflowed the field of view. Gradually P-Two's velocity with respect to the other vessel lessened until it hung motionless at a distance of one mile from the Ship. Like a minnow investigating a sleeping shark, McCullough thought. Berryman cleared his throat loudly and said, "The... the Ship is broadside on to us. I estimate its length at just under half a mile and its diameter at about one hundred yards. The diameter is uniform throughout its length, like a torpedo, except where it curves inwards at nose and stem. Two thirds of the way towards the stern -- I'm assuming it is the stern because Jhe other end contains more transparent material -- the hull is encircled by a belt of large, transparent blisters. Twelve of them, I think. The sun is shining directly into one and I can see metallic reflections. "There is another cluster of transparent domes encircling the nose," he went on, "but these are smaller and flatter -- possibly housing the Ship's communications and sensory equipment, while the bigger ones are either weapons or... or... maybe Professor Pugh would have some ideas on what they are, because there is nothing visible on the ship resembling a conventional rocket motor or even a jet orifice." The pilot was dividing his attention between the telescope and the direct-vision port. His voice was quiet, controlled and ostentatiously matter-of-fact. But every time he moved perspiration beading his forehead was shaken loose and hung suspended away from his face, like the stylized sweat of startlement of a character in a comic strip. Walters's lower lip had disappeared behind his upper teeth. McCullough did not know how he himself looked, but he did not feel at all well. Berryman went on steadily, "We are beaming signal patterns denoting, we hope, intelligence at them on a wide spread of frequencies and we are igniting flares every fifteen minutes. So far there has been no response. I don't understand this -- we're not exactly sneaking up on them. Have I permission to move in?" To give him credit, Morrison did not warn them to be careful or remind them, again, of the absolute necessity of doing the right thing. Instead he said, Very well. We will close to one mile and proceed to cover you." "What with?" said McCullough, in spite of himself. He had been thinking about Hollis again and the physicist's delusion about a Dirty Annie on P-One. McCullough wondered suddenly if such delusions were contagious, like some kind of psychosomatic head-cold... figure of speech, Doctor. We shall furnish moral support only. And please remember that everything we say is being re-broadcast all over Earth, so kep this channel clear at all times for Captain Berryman" For the past few minutes McCullough had completely forgotten that everything emanating from PTwo was being relayed through Prometheus Control all over the world. He could just imagine the battery of ground-base space medics playing back that section of their tape, discussing each word and inflection in the minutest possible detail and muttering among themselves about father figures and archetypal images and basic insecurities. McCullough felt his face beginning to burn, but the two pilots were too busy re-positioning their ship to notice it. F or the better part of their arbitrary "day" they drifted slowly back and forth along the tremendous alien hull. Each pass covered a different strip of its surface, allowing them to chart the various features it contained. When they approached the transparent domes in what they assumed was the bow they lit a flare. There was no reaction, no sign of life of any kind. Berryman said, "Either there is nobody at home or the watch-keeping officer is asleep or worse. If it wasn't for the fact that the Ship decelerated into a circumsolar orbit, and a very neat one at that, I'd say there was a strong possibility that the Ship is in a derelict or at least distressed condition." A ship in distress usually signals for help. As loudly and as often as possible." "If they were telepathic," said McCullough, joining in, "they might expect their distress to be plain for all to hear." " they were telepathic they would know that we werent." Berryman shot the doctor a brief, sympathetic glance, then went on quickly. "They can't or won't react to the usual methods of attracting attention, and their ship appears to 'be in a powered-down condition. I think it is time we knocked on the nearest airlock door and walked in -- politely, of course, and with all due caution. "I suggest leaving the Doctor on watch," Berryman went on, "wthile Walters and I have a look at the big seal which is passing under is IP just now. It looks Kke a cargo lock big enough to take P-Two from here, and there is a smaller lock -- for personnel, I expect -- set into the large one. I think we could open it. After all, there are only so many ways to open a door." Morrison was silent for so long that they wondered if he was going to wait for instructions from Earth before giving permission. But finally he said. # agree that we should take some more positive action, but Fm concerned about the possibility of booby-traps. Unintentional boobytraps in the shape of mechanisms whose operating principles are so alien as to be a danger to you." "We'll be careful, sir," said Berryman. "We're only going to open a door," Walters whispered disparagingly to the Doctor, but not quietly enough. "Pandora thought the same thing, Walters, you might remember that! However, you have permission to land on the Ships hull and open an airlock. Take your time about preparations -- there must be no avoidable accidents. And you, Berryman, will remain on watch. I cant risk losing both pilots. Walters and the doctor can go , if they don't mind, that is... Put like that and with countless no choice. But the strange thing was that McCullough did not feel afraid -- tense and impatient with all the waiting around, perhaps, but not really afraid. Earlier when they had been approaching the Ship for the first time he had been expecting literally anything and he had be more afraid than he had believed it possible for any man to be. Perlaps it had been what some people called a moment of truth. But when the moment of truth spreads itself out over twenty-six hours, there is a considerable dilution of effect. McCullough launched himself in the wake of the pilot, slowly and carefully so that his magnets would stick to the alien hull rather than bounce off, and a few minuets later they made a gentle, sprawling contact. McCullough detached his wrist magnets and slowly straightened up. It was only then that it hit him. This metal plating beneath his feet had been shaped and processed from ore dug out of the earth, but not the Earth. From his position by the airlock the hull looked so enormous that he seemed almost to be standing on a metallic planet, complete with a range of beautiful transparent hills. The sun was shining through one of the blister hills, distorted by refraction into a gaudy smear which threw blurred highlights off whatever it was that the blister contained. And this whole, vast fabrication was the product of a design staff and engineers who were not of Earth. At no stage in its construction had the people from McDonnell or Its reason for being might be as strange and alien as its makers, whoever and whatever they might be, but he felt that its basic purpose could be easily understood by human beings of a certain psychological type -- the type who drowned or crashed or fell off mountains trying to climib higher or fly faster or dive deeper than their fellows. For some reason McCullough felt sure that the aliens had gone to the stars, had come to this star, simply because it was there... "When they were giving us all those lectures. Doctor," said Walters, displaying his genius for converting the sublime into the ridiculous, "they forgot burglary. How does one pick an airlock?" #CThere are only so many ways X for a door to open," Walters said, very seriously for him, "and I'd like, you to check me on them. It can be hinged to open inwards or out. It can slide open by moving up, down or to either side. It can be mounted on a central pivot, like a buttfly valve, or it can unscrew. Have I left anything out?" "I don't think so," said McCullough. "But if these people were advanced enough to have molecular engineering, the entrances might iris open and shut." "Unlikely," said Walters. 'The door and surroundings are ordinary metal, very roughly finished and showing deep scratches and dents. If they were capable of controlling the molecular binding forces of metal to the extent of being able to dilate an opening in an area of solid plating -- of making the metal flow like a viscous liquid -- they would not have scratches showing on it. These marking could have been made by heavy tocs or equipment being moved into the lock chamber. They vary in depth and are of uniform brightness. "If the Ship were assembled in space the markings could have been made at any time during its construction and still appear fresh and bright. There are an awful lot of them, all over the place." 'We would like a more detailed description of mechanisms in the area, if you can see any. I can't see very much with this telescope" The voice coming from P-One sounded strained, with the subtle difference in tone which labelled it for public rather than private consumption. On Earth everyone who could get within earshot of a radio -- a world record listening figure for a single program -- would be hanging on every word. Morrison could not help being conscious of seemed to be more frightened by them than what lay inside the Ship. The pilot took a deep and audible breath, then continued. "Six inches from the rim of the personnel lock, on the side facing aft, there is a lever about two feet long. It is set flush with the skin except at one end where a hemispherical dimple about three inches deep gives access to the handle." He was using the term loosely, McCullough thought as he photographed it, because the handle was not meant for hands. It terminated in a small knob containing two small, conical depressions on opposite sides, and it was the perfect IF shape for a finger and thumb. Or pincers. "I'm pulling it from the recess now," Walters said quickly, giving the colonel no time to have second thoughts. "I am doing it very slowly. There was resistance at first, suggesting spring loading, but now it is moving easily. This must mean a powered actuator rather than a direct linkage to the door itself. So far nothing has happened. The lever is now approximately thirty degrees along its angle of travel, approaching forty-five... Oops!" A brief, silent hurricane rushed out of the suddenly open airlock, and they were in the center of a globe of fog which dispersed almost as soon as it had formed. McCullough reached forward, gripped the lever and returned it to its recess. Obediently the lock swung closed. He waited a few seconds, then opened and closed it again several times. What is happening out there, dammit? said the colonel furiously, momentarily forgetting the networks and their views on the sort of language suitable for family audiences. What are you two playing at? Walters looked at McCullough before replying; then he said, "This was an idea we discussed during the trip out. Very simply, it involves us leaning over backwards in doing all the right things -- at least, we hope they are the right things. Here we are assuming that the reactions and motivations of the aliens are similar to our own where defense mechanisms and self-preservation are ' concerned. "In the present situation," fie went on, 'Sve are entering their shij? surreptitiously. It might even be argued that we are breaking and entering or effecting an illegal entry in that we haven't been invited to come in. The flares and radio signals during our approach may not have been noticed. They were not watching or listening, or maybe they are very alien and do not have eyes or ears. But the opening and closing of the airlock should register in a fashion understandable to tfiem somewhere in their control center. "What we mean is, a burglar doesn't open and close a door, or even a window, several times before entering." Very well, I take the point. But if a stranger slammecLmy front door several times to let me know he was there, I might feel, well, irritated. While they were talking McCullough investigated the open lock, shining his torch around the rim so as to show any possible observer that it was simply a source of light and not a weapon, before directing the beam into the lock chamber. It was unlikely that anyone would be waiting for them inside the lock; their situation might be analogous to the coal cellar manhole rather than the front door, but McCullough wanted to establish habits of viewing each simple, innocent act as it might appear to non-human eyes and mentalities. He gripped the rim of the seal with one hand and carefully moved his head and shoulders into the opening. Even though there was no interior lighting, his tcwch gave him a good view of the lock chamber except where the inward opening seal blocked his vision on one side. The basic color scheme was pale gray or pale blue-gray. Walls, ceiling and floor -- it was impossible to tell which was which -- were covered with disciplined masses of plumbing, grapples and what looked like lashing points for heavy stores, all color-coded in vivid greens, blues and reds. The lock chamber was large, about thirty feet wide and ten deep. Set into each wall were seals four or five times the area of the one McCullough was using, and in the center of each there was a small transparent panel. He knew they were transparent because his flash showed tantalizing glimpses of other brightly painted sihapes on the other side. From what he could see, this area of the Ship was in darkness. McCullough could imagine the chamber as a transfer point for containers of food and equipment, lashed down to render them immobile until they were distributed about the Ship. Heavy equipment drifting loose in the weightless condition could be a menace to alien life and limb as well as human. But the disposition of lashing points and their support brackets suggested a lack of gravitational influence, whether natural, artificial or due to acceleration, being allowed for in the design. Which might mean that the interior of the Ship remained permanently in the weightless condition even during periods of powered flight. Something more advanced than rocket propulsion was used on this ship. But it all looked so... so unsophisticated. McCullough became aware of a hand gripping his ankle and drawing him slowly out of the lock entrance and Walters saying, "What's the matter, didn't you hear what I said?" "When my helmet antenna was inside," said McCullough, "your voice faded to nothing. Some sort of screening effect, I suppose?" "Yes. And that is the next step, the colonel says. Checking communications between the lock interior and the P-ships." A few minutes later the pilot entered the lock chamber and closed the seal behind him. From inside he could not make himself heard or receive the colonel's signal until he brought his antenna into contact with the metal of the hull, when two-way communication was possible although with a greatly diminished signal strength. Walters reopened the seal, and when McCullough joined him inside he closed it again. Morrison did not sound happy over what they were doing. At the risk of disappointing the countless stated several times that his men needed rest -- the next stage of the investigation was crucial, and he wanted them to be fully alert. It had been almost thirty-two hours since any of them had a proper rest period. He suspected that the two men on the Ship were becoming too tired even to talk. IF "Sarcastic so-and-so," said Walters, momentarily breakhig antenna contact with the near-by bulkhead. A tremendous, eye-wat wring, jawwrenching yawn put a great dark hole in his face, and he went on, "I wasn't even tired until he reminded me! But you had better talk to him. I want to trace this cable loom running along the inside face of the chamber. The wiring seems too fine to carry much juice so it may be part of the internal communications or lighting system. 'Tell the colonel what I'm doing, along with anything else which occurs to you." McCullough did so, beginning with a minutely detailed description of the chamber and the view through its five internal windows and going on to make the first twitative conclusions regarding the Ship and its builders. The cable looms, conduits and plumbing were color-coded in a garish variety of shades, some of them bearing permutations of other colored spots, bands or stripes. A human electronics engineer would have felt almost at home here, McCullough thought. Fore, aft and on the floor and ceiling the chamber's transparent panels, so far as it was possible to see with a flashlight, showed a similar arrangement in the adjacent compartments. Apparently the chamber was set between the ship's outer and inner hull, in the space which contained the vessel's power, control and sensory equipment. The lock chamber, which must be one of many, would give access to the inter-hull space for purposes of repair or maintajnce. The inboard facing window gave a view which contained least of all to see -- merely a section of corridor, eight feet square and of unknown length, whose four sides were covered with large-mesh netting pulled taught. The visible mechanical and structural features gave an overall impression of crudeness. There was no sign of lightening holes or cutouts in any of the support brackets or structural members, no indication that considerations of weigiht or power-mass ratios had entered into the designers' calculations. "It is too soon to make any hard and fast assumptions about them," McCullough went on. "We know that they do not have fingers, and may have a two-digit pincer arrangement. Probably their visual range and sensitivity is similar to ours, judging by the color intensities used on cable identification. The to us crude and unnecessarily robust construction of minor structural details indicates a lack of concern over weight and the power required to get it moving. The corridor netting suggests that they are not advanced enough to possess an artificial gravity system, and the total absence of light and movement shows that the Ship is orbiting in a power-down condition... WaU ters!' In the corridor outside the chamber, the lights had come on. CiQorry, that was me,said WaU ters sheepishly. "Ive discovered what a light switch looks like, but I must have guessed wrong... The light in the corridor went off and on several times, then suddenly the lock chamber lighting came on. He added, "Better tell the colonel about this, too.' McCullough informed the colonel that Walters had found the light switches, had experimented with them and that the Ship's illumination was a bright, bluish white emanating from tubes which they had mistaken for sections of plumbing. There was still no reaction from the alien crew, and McCullough was beginning to wonder if the Ship had a crew. You two seem to have a weakness for slamming doors and switching lights on! However, this wraps it up for the time being. We need rest. Return to P-Two. We have a lot to think about before we do anything else on that ship. Say so if you understand "Understood, sir," said Walters. "But we would like a sample of Ship's air before we leave. Five minutes should do it." McCullough was beginning to feel irritable and very tired, and he did want the chance to analyze as soon as possible whatever atmosphere it was that the aliens breathed. But the thought kept recurring to him that he was not very very cautious about this, that he was breaking even his own rules, and that fatigue was a little like drunkenness in that it made people take chances. Walters opened the corridor seal, and the alien air roared into the lock chamber. Their suits lost their taut, puffy appearance and hung loosely against their bodies. Ship pressure seemed to be a pound or two per square inch higher than suit pressure, McCullough thought as he took the sample. The pilot was moving toward the open seal. "I'm only going to take a look," said Walters. McCullough joined him. There was only one source of light in the corridor, the one switched on by Walters, so that both ends disappeared into blackness. But suddenly McCullough felt the wall netting vibrate and ... something... was shooting towards them along the corridor. McCullough flung himself back, but Walters, who had a leg and arm outside the rim at the time, fumbled and was slower getting in. The doctor had a glimpse of something rushing past the opening, something which looked a little like a heavy, leathery starfish, then Walters reached the lock actuator and the seal slammed closed. The pilot remained floating with one hand gripping the actuator lever and the other resting ludicrously on his hip. His face was white and sweating, his eyes squeezed shut. "It can't get in, now -- we're safe -- " began McCullough, then stopped. Walters was not safe. There was a large, triangular tear in the fabric of his suit at the right hip. The undergarment showed through it, also a section of the air-conditioning system looking strangely like a bared artery, although the leg itself did not appear to be injured. IF The pilot was trying to hold the tear closed with his hand. But it was too big, the edges too ragged and the pressure difference was too great to keep the alien atmosphere from forcing its way into his suit. He began to cough. M ore than anything else he had ever wanted in his whole life, McCullough wanted out. Never before had the cramped and stinking confines of the command module seemed so desirable and secure. And P-Two was drifting less than a hundred yards away, with Berryman on watch ready to help him inside and take him away from this suddenly frightful place. All he had to do was operate one childishly simple lever. It would mean evacuating the chamber, of course. Walters would die of explosive decompression. But the pilot was strangling to death in an alien atmosphere anyway, and the other might be quicker and more merciful... Except that Berryman might not want to leave without Walters, and explosive decompression was not a nice way to die, and in his student days McCullough had been pretty thoroughly conditioned against mercy "Doctor," said Walters between coughs, "do you have -- a bandaid on you?" "What?" said McCullough, then added with feeling, "Dammit, Fm stupidr A length of adhesive with its washable plastic backing would not hold the tear together in vacuo, but with pressure almost equal between chamber and suit interior it would act as a barrier to the entry of the alien air all around them. For a time, at least. Quickly McCullough took a dressing from his kit and pressed the edges of the tear together while Walters rubbed on the tape. When they were finished McCullough said, "How do you feel? Any pain in the chest? Nausea? Impairment of vision?" Walters shook his head. Almost strangling himself with his effort not to cough, he said, "The... the smell is like ammonia... or formaldehyde. Strong and sharp but not... a stinking smell. But you'd better tell the colonel." McCullough nodded and laid his antenna against the metal wall. The colonel interrupted him only once to ask what the pilot had been doing out in the corridor, then he told McCullough to continue with his report without trying to make excuses for Walters's stupidity. The doctor did so, spending less time on the incident itself than on the problems it had raised. Can you tie off the leg section tightly enough to avoid a lethal pressure drop for the few minutes it will take to get him back to P-Two? It would mean decompressing the leg, of course, but that would be better than -- " "No, sir. The tear is high on the left hip. We can't evacuate Ijie chamber while he is in it And I can't leave, and nobody from outside can enter unless -- " ""Unless Walters goes back into the corridor while the chamber is airless. Ask him how he feels about doing that: The pilot's reply had to be edited and censored considerably. McCullough said, "He'll do it. But he doesn't feel too enthusiastic." Morrison refused to comment on Walters's feelings. He said, That takes care of your return. But getting him back to PTwo means putting him in another suit. There were several good reasons why the P-ships did not carry spare spacesuits. Quite apart from the extra weight and stowage requirements involved there was the fact that a spacesuit had to be literally tailored to fit its wearer, and this would have meant carrying a spare for every member of the expedition. As well, damage to a suit usually meant death for its wearer, so that repairs were not even considered. In any case repairing a suit was a specialist's job requiring facilities not available on the ships. Both Hollis and Berryman are close to Walters in size, the colonel went on, and Berryman is closest in distance, ##I shoot Drew across to you. While hes on the way Berry man can place his suit in PTwos airlock. Drew will pick it up and deliver it to you for Walters and coU lect your air sample. '"You, Doctor, will stay with Walters to see that his seals are tight and the suit isnt strained dangerously by forcing the fit. As well as losing one of our trained pilots we cant afford to write off another suit. What is his condition now? Walters had his antenna in contact with the plating, listening. He tried to speak, broke into a fit of coughing, and made a rude gesture instead. McCullough translated. "He has a persistent cough which may be due to throat irritation only. There are no other respiratory symptoms, no chest pain and no detectable toxic effects. His morale is good." The doctor did not know these things with any degree of certainty -- his optimism was mostly for his patient's benefit. But just in case the colonel did not realize what McCuUou was doing he added quickly. "But I'd like to give him a thorough checkup in shirt-sleeve conditions as soon as possible." A little later Morrison told them Drew was on his way and that he was moving his own ship in to join P-Two. Tactically this was not a good move, he said, but on this occasion tactics and common sense seemed to be at variance, and in any case they could pull out quickly if it became necessary. "And go home?" asked McCullough. "# dont know. Doctor. There are other considerations: s the period of high drama, the first and unfortunately violent contact with the aliens passed, the colonel began to worry over the possibility that Prometheus Control had not faded out the networks during the incident with Walters and the alien. Aware suddenly of a possible audience they became laconic to the point of sounding ridiculous. Stiffly, the colonel wished Walters Good Luck. Walters said, "Thanks." Berryman suggested McCullough should make a sketch of the alien from memory while they were waiting on Drew. Morrison said it was a good idea, just in case. Nobody asked in case of what. During the twenty minutes or so it took for Drew to reach them -- in subjective time it felt more like ten years -- McCullough sketched the alien and made a map of the vicinity of their lock chamber. While doing so he discovered a leak in one of the pipe joints. Probably the repeated opening and closing of the seal had put an unfair strain on the hydraulic system -- the joint was sweating, and droplets of a clear brownish liquid hung around it, steaming faintly. McCullough hoped nothing calamitous would happen when the chamber was evacuated. Drew arrived, checked by radio on the oration of the lock, then waited while McCullough opened the inner seal and entered the corridor with Walters. As the air rushed out of the chamber and Drew swam in, a fogginess appeared around the leaking joint. But nothing else seemed to be happening. There were no aliens visible in the lighted section of corridor. "If one of them comes at us," McCullough told Walters, "I'll hang onto the net and kick at it with both feet. You concentrate on holding that patch in position." He was beginning to feel that the pilot's trouble had been his own rather than Walters's fault. The leak in the lock's hydraulic system was bothering him. It was almost certainly a recent malfunction. There was a strong probability that it had occurred because the seal-actuator mechanism had been recently overstressed. McCullough had forgotten how many times exactly they had opened and closed the thing, something like seventeen or eighteen times in as many minutes, while the chances were that normal usage was on the order of twice a day. He was assuming, of course, that these were not omnipotent aliens and that their ship might occasionally develop mechanical faults. Such failures would show in their control center and a member of the crew might be sent to check on it, or perhaps deal with the real cause of the trouble -- the human invaders. McCullough was coming to realize that their actions, which had been meant simply to advertise their presence on board, could just as well be construed as criminally irresponsible or wantonly destructive. In these circumstances a certain amount of hostility on the part of the aliens would be understandable. People who leaned over backwards, McCullough thought grimly, frequently fell flat on their face. "Walters. Doctor." Drew's voice came suddenly. "The colonel sent you a weapon of sorts. To be used only in self-defense, he says. Grip it in the middle and stab with it like a spear." McCullough looked up and down the still empty corridor, then into the chamber. He said, "It's just a length of pipe." "A blunt bayonet makes a worse mess than a sharp one," Drew said cheerfully, "and a length of one-inch IF pipe is about as blunt as a weapon can get. Just take time to aim and jab hard. I guarantee it will discourage any man or beastie not wearing a suit of armor. I'm leaving now. Good luck." A few seconds later he was blown through the outer door by escaping air, and another eternity passed while he jetted back to the hidl and closed it again. Walters and McCullough re-entered the chamber, still without alien interference. T he problem now was to get Walters out of his damaged suit and into the replacement quickly enough to keep him from being gassed. McCullough started by opening the pilot's face-plate, taping up his nostrils and making him breathe slowly through his oxygen line. Then he wrapped his legs around the pilot's waist and began cutting away the damaged suit. It was hard, painstaking work. The plastic and metal foil was difficult to cut with a scalpel, and McCullough was all too aware of the skin and blood vessels lying just a fraction of an inch below. The drying unit in his own suit refused to cope with the increased flow of perspiration; his visor was fogging badly despite its special coating, and he wasn't dissipating nearly enough of his body heat. This would be a great time to pass out from heat stroke. Quickly he slit the legs, arms and chest, peeling them away to leave only the shoulder section which contained the air supply and hingedback helmet. There followed a weightless adagio dance, and he drew the new suit onto the pilot's legs and arms while the tatters of the old one hung out from his back. Walters could not give him much help because the alien atmosphere was making his eyes stream. No matter how hard he tried he could not stop coughing -- which drew more of the stuff into his lungs. By the time he told Walters to hyperventilate and hold his breath while the changeover was completed, McCullough was afraid that he had already breathed in too much of it. Finally they were ready to leave. The discarded suit twisted slowly, like some shredded, dismembered corpse, in the mist which was growing visibly in the area of the leak. McCullough wondered what the aliens would make of it, what they would infer and deduce regarding the human race. The thought made him look towards the transparent panel in the door. There were three of them. McCullough pushed himself toward the corridor door without thinking -- the reason for doing it seemed to come after the action rather than before. To Walters he said quickly, "If they open that door the outer one won't open -- there's sure to be a safety interlock system -- and if they see us trying to leave they will surely open it. I'll move close to the window and block their view while you open the outer seal. The suction will pull us out. Where's that blasted pipe?" He couldn't see it. Probably it was hiding in plain sight against a background of Ship plumbing, a tree hiding in a forest. His idea was to hold their attention somehow while blocking their view of what Walters was doing. To do so he had to get close to the transparent door 'panel and either arouse their interest or frighten them away. McCullough did not know of anything he could do which would prove fascinating to the aliens, but he just might be able to worry them a little with his camera. It was a beautiful instrument which fairly bristlejd with supplementary lenses and attachments. It might very easily be mistaken for a weapon. I n some deep recess of his mind a small voice was reminding him insistently of e need to consider the alien point of view and to do nothing to give them the wrong idea about humanity and human behavior. McCullough felt a moment's shame, but he was really much too frightened to listen. There was no perceptible reaction from the e-ts as McCullough drifted up to the window, still aiming his camera. One of them was drifting in the center of the corridor, a stubby, dumbbell shape covered with long spikes. Each half of its body was roughly the size of a football, and there were no sensory or manipulatory organs visible. A second alien clung to the opposite wall-net like a great, fleshy spider, giving him a perfect plan view of the starfish body with its thick tentacles and leathery tegument. The tentacles ended in boney pincers, like white, miniature elephant tusks. He estimated its physical mass to be approximately half that of a man with the tentacle length between four and five feet. The third alien was of the same species as number Two. It covered part of the window with its body so that McCullough and his camera had a perfect view of its underbelly, which was soft and pinkish brown and convoluted into folds and openings which were evidently mouths or gills or sensory equipment of some kind, all grouped around a large, sharp, centrally placed horn or sting. McCullough swallowed hard. He thought that on the purely physical evidence these were not nice people. Then suddenly the aliens began to move. McCuUough still wasn't sure where their eyes were, but somehow he knew that their focus of attention had changed. Something was approaching along the corridor. He could not get his eyes close enough to the window to see, although he could hear low, gobbling sounds being transmitted through the metal of the door to his helmet. Quickly he stepped down his lens and aimed it along the dark corridor. It had a wider angle of view and might see more than he could. The first three aliens were leaving. Walters opened the outer seal at that moment and the rush of escaping air drew him away from the door, spinning him slowly end over end. But not before he had a glimpse of something covered with white fur, or perhaps clothing, which flicked past the window. IF Intelligence is knowing when to fights when to run -- and when to give up and drop dead! I n the cometary regions out past Pluto a spot of light flickered briefly. The Hirokan spacer braked fiercely down from the dark gamma radiation of faster than light, through the visible spectrum of slowing relativistic speeds and into the invisibility of sublight. She was met nearly to the same cubic mile of nothingness by a smaller Hirokan vessel. "Nice navigation," Admiral Ikara said to the captain. It certainly was, considering the destroyer had come fifty light-years to an almost exact rendezvous with the yacht sent from the Hirokan embassy on Earth. The captain bowed modestly, silently thanking his ancestors on his good foresight in securing a top navigator for the trip. He was equally happy he hadn't been spotted by a warship from the unfriendly area he had just traversed. He had been obliged to swap his best gunnery officer for the navigator. There was an old Hirokan saying, "Politics makes perfect." "Sir," the captain said, "the less time we linger here, the better. The comets will mask us just so long." He pointed toward the personnel transfer torp. The ten-foot-long projectile was in its cradle, ready to launch. Efficiently, the admiral stretched full length in the torp. He pressed the studs sealing it and almost immediately felt the shove of acceleration, almost as quickly followed by the counter push of braking. A brief clanging and the torp was opened from the outside. By the numbers, he thought and felt a fierce pride in Hirokan military efficiency. He unfolded himself from the torp, knowing the destroyer was already gone. The yacht was in motion, too. He acknowledged the yacht commander's salute, noting the civilian dress. "How long to planetfall?" he asked. "Sixteen point three hours, sir." Seeing the admiral's stare, he flushed and changed his figures to the Hirokan equivalent. "You must have been on Earth quite some time," the admiral commented dryly. "Embassy duty, sir, nearly three -- " He choked and changed what he was about to say from "years" to Hirokan figures. The admiral looked at him closely. "Two tours of duty, eh? I guess you could pass pretty well for an Earthman." Captain Cochi looked very much like one-third of Earth's inhabitants -- skin between light olive and dark lemon, eyes slightly slanting. "Oh, I 'do! I just change into regular Earth clothes and I can go everywhere without attracting attention. I'm pretty close to average height and weight. I suppose that's why I was picked for the embassy. But believe me. I'd rather be out on the frontier fighting!" The admiral smiled at this. "Naturally, every fighting man wants to fight. I gather, though, there's something particularly unpleasant about the assignment." "Well, it's just that Earth is so backwards. I realize that's good for us, but the place simply reeks of Eoch Issue of If brings you the first published story of a brand-new sciencefiction writer. This month's "first" is Joy Kay Klein's On Conquered Earth, One of the country's most active fans. Jay Kay has been a familiar sight at conventions, where he Is the semi-official photographer whose albums include pictures of almost everyone In science fiction. By trade he is an engineer working for General Electric. savagery. Hordes of people crowding everywhere, polluting the air, water, and tlie very surface of the planet." "Stinks, eh?" "Yes, sir. You've never seen such a crowd. People practically sleeping in the streets. In fact, on some parts of Earth they do sleep in the streets. They even pollute their lungs with deliberately breathed smoke. It's worse than the inside of a troop transport." The admiral had already been briefed on Earth conditions. The planet was far from the Hirokan sphere of influence, but an embassy was maintained as part of general policy to keep an eye on potential threats and possible conquests. The admiral was on a mission to check out personally reports Earth might be changing from a potential conquest to an active threat. Admiral Ikara said. "Doesn't sound as if they have too much intelligence if they treat their home that way." The captain smiled. It was an axiom that Hirokans were the only real people, with real brains. Other IF peoples were little more than animals, to be tamed when possible or destroyed when necessary. T he hours passed, with the admiral taking in the impressions of the captain and the other members of the crew that were normally stationed as civilians in the embassy. A sleep period intervened. When Admiral Ikara awoke, he found the captain waiting for him. "Sir, I thought you might like to see one of the few wonders of this wretched little system. We'll be passing by one of the gas giants shortly." Constructed as a speedy vessel for personal enjoyment, the yacht had an observation deck that could be darkened and opened optically to the outside. Saturn came into view, the rings glittering against the backdip of star-strewn space. The rings encircled a whirling ball of cyclonestirred gases. "Beautiful," the admiral said. "I'm pleased you passed by here." He looked sharply at the captain. "This won't compromise us?" Captain Gochi made a deprecatory motion. "Not at all. Yachts are common enough around here. It's quite a tourist spot. It would probably be more suspicious if we detoured." He added, "Of course, the rings won't be around too much longer." "They look stable enough to me. Light pressure can't be too intense this far from the primary." "No, sir, it's the ring miners. Little ships bring Earthmen out to hunt for diamonds. Lots of them die. Some are lucky. But every orbital maneuver or scoop attempt disturbs the rocks and pebbles making up the rings. The perturbations are accumulative and will spread the rings out eventually to form a barely noticeable wisp around the planet." "That's pretty dumb. You mean to say they'd destroy something as magnificent as this for some lousy crystallized carbon? They could make all they want in a factory." The captain shrugged. "It's a custom on Earth to place' a diamond on the finger of a woman when she marries. Earthmen claim a synthetic diamond isn't good enough." "How can they possibly tell the difference?" "A synthetic diamond is perfect. The natural diamond has flaws the Earthmen are fond of." The admiral snorted. "Match their women, no doubt." Captain Gochi laughed, thinking of the Earth women he'd known. "Personally, I like their flaws. They're not bright, but they are most active at the right time." The ship made planetfail on the night side and came down under antiradar screening at a private field controlled secretly by the Hirokan government. All but a skeleton crew left the ship and headed back to the embassy to take up their interrupted duties. Admiral Ikara was escorted by the captain to the embassy, taken to the thirtieth floor penthouse and turned over to the ranking official. Ambassador Sushi bowed three times, ceremoniously, reciprocated by the admiral. "Most welcome, honored sir," said the ambassador. "I am pleased, indeed. We have never before been visited by a member of the Imperial War Staff." "Somebody's got to look into the events we've been hearing about. Your reports indicate the situation could be turning serious." The admiral stopped, said through clenched teeth, "We are in a maximum security area, I presume?" Startled, the ambassador said, "Of course! We are absolutely screened against any radio frequency penetration. The room is swept clean of any possible mechanical pickup device. And that inch-thick acoustic curtain is drawn over three vacuum-insulated layers of glass in the window." Satisfied, the admiral relaxed. He started questioning the ambassador. A cross the street, there was feverish activity on the thirtieth and thirty-first floors of the skyscraper facing the Hirokan embassy. The head of Earth's secret service was there with a half-dozen aides. Another half-dozen technicians were anxiously checking scope patterns, talking to a computer in advanced symbio-loglan and going through the usual routines of getting balky, complex equipment to work. One of the aides couldn't take the pressure any longer and snarled at a technician, "Get the damned thing working, willya! God knows what's going on across the street." Chief Oxblood said, "No use making the guy nervous, Joe." He turned to the technician. "Do your best." The technician was already doing his best. After all, it wouldn't be pleasant to wind up on a Chlorella farm with nothing to look forward to after a hard day's work skimming chlorella algae but a bowl of algae mush for dinner and a chloropsyllstained mattress bare of any comforts, such as feminine companionship. Oh, the technician tried, all right. Joe said, "Chief, do you really think this is the big moment, right now?" The chief packed a pipe with tobacco and lit it. Puffing at it, he said, "Everything points to it. First, Whatsizname drops from sight -- that war fleet captain who's officially listed as a cook and goes out on the town every night thinking no one doesn't know he's a Hirokan. Then our man at the Hirokan field reports a space yacht with lots of sizzle is gone, and we don't have any record of it. Just took off without clearance. "Naturally, we figure someone is being conveyed in quietly. That's not like the Hiroku. Usually, they'd just as soon bust in with an armored boat as not. Arrogant bastards! So, the fact they're being secret shows something important is going on. Then we get a report from a diamond miner on the Rings that something going like a bat out of Hell zips in from Outside midway between moons I and II. "Suddenly, the yacht reappears like magic on the field, and Captain Watsizname is back making like a sailor on shore leave after a voyage to Sumatra. Didn't take him five minutes. He must have been wearing his civvies all the way. Yeh, their gear is damn good, but their security leaks like a sieve." Joe nodded. "I've got our usual IF operation working on Captain Gochi, trying to pump him." Another agent joined in. "Who's trying to pump whom?" And he laughed. Joe shot back, "One good turn deserves another! We pay her and he pays her. All in a day's work." The technician interrupted. "I think I'm getting it, sir. I'm feeding the data to the computer, and we should start getting the readout in a couple of minutes," From three lenses set into the outer skin of the thirtieth floor, three infrared laser beams, each tuned to a slightly different wavelength, bounced off the window of the embassy penthouse opposite. Each made a slightly differing amount of penetration of the three layers of glass. Three very much weakened reflections of differing intensity came bouncing back. These were picked up by phototransistors capable of rapid modulation. An agent asked, "I understand how the laser pickup works in principle, but I'm damned if I can see how we can get anything through a double vacuum seal and an acoustic curtain." The technician had relaxed, now that the scope traces told him everything was going nicely to the computer. He said, "With a single piece of glass or the usual airfill heat insulation, a single laser reflection would be modulated by slight movements of the glass. These are in response to the air pressure variations caused by sound in a room. With the setup across the street, though, we couldn't get enough waveform amplitude to do any decoding. So we take three beams and use their slight amplitude beating against each other to form a frequency modulated carrier that can be decoded with computer enhancement." "Hey," Joe protested, "I'm no tech, but vacuum insulation wouldn't allow even that mess of gobbledegook to work." Chief Oxblood smiled. "Our favorite operative got into that room one night, when it was our noble captain's turn on duty. While the captain went to the bathroom, our girl fked that vacuum but good. She received quite a bonus. After all, we want our captain to have a long and happy tour of duty. You never can tell, they might send a replacement with some sense." A ll talk ceased as the speaker hookup suddenly started giving the translation of what was being said in the room across the street. Two differently pitched voders were used to distinguish the two Hirokan voices. Otherwise, the mechanical speech synthesizer would make it hard to tell one talker from another. "So, you reported these Earth creatures are leaving the planet and establishing bases outside the system. That could be dangerous. If they ever become widespread enough to establish a defense network, we'd have a miserable job cleaning them out." "We had reason to think so, at the time of our last report. Of course, you've been traveling for quite some time and we've had some additional evidence turn up since then. Fortunately, our alarms seem unfounded." "It had better be convincing, or I'll recommend to the War Staff that we turn our attention from our Spiral Arm frontiers and take an excursion this way as a preventive measure." At this point, the computer finally worked out the proper pattern through a fantastically complex process and added vision to the sound. It wasn't too good, since an acoustic hologram reconstruction lacks fine resolution. But the secret service men could make out the agonized expression on Ambassador Sushi's face. "Really, Admiral, I hate to be the one to cause a change in policy and louse up our long-range expansion plans toward Galactic Center. It's no secret that if we let up pressure, we will lose lot of hard-won momentum. After all, even our resources aren't infinite." "Look, just give me the information. Earth is pretty backwards just now, but those gas giants in the system give it an energy potential that is simply staggering. If we're not careful, a couple of generations from now we could find ourselves frozen out from this entire sector. But don't worry, if it looks safe enough, I'll report we should just sit back for a while longer and keep an eye on things." Through the fuzzy, writhing moire patterns of the probe screen, the secret service agents saw 'Ambassador Sushi open a desk compartment and take out a recorder. He said, "Our demographic experts noted a slight but significant decrease in the rate of increase in the Earth population." "So I understand. Off hand, I couldn't think of a more sensible arrangement." "Quite so. Except that, as we know, Earthmen aren't reasonable. The birth rate has been climbing with mathematical precision for hundreds of years. Now we find a substantial number of persons, male and female, are disappearing each year. Children, too, I might add." "And this made you think Earthmen were sending colonies out? What about transport ships?" The ambassador shrugged. "The system is crawling with ships, coming and going. All the planets and most of the satellites have colonies. There's no way of keeping tabs on ships." He eyed the admiral slyly. "Unless, of course, you'd care to assign half a fleet on permanent watch." "Of course not. We might just as well take a whole fleet, smash our way through fifty light-years of hostile territory and knock the Earth out once and for all." "Quite so. Therefore, I thought it best to investigate the matter from this end. During your trip here, I had one of our men follow up the leads we had uncovered. Here's the report." A mbassador Sushi started the playback mechanism. The listening secret service men heard a third voder voice. "The lab boys tell me the recorder can't be seen and is indetectable. Made out of synthaflesh plastic and all that. Just the same, I sure can feel it. I will just have to sit down gently, I guess. It must be four inches deep in my left buttock. I'd like to plant one in a lab boy. IF "As long as no one can stop me, I think ni say doing one's duty can be a pain in the rear sometimes. Lucky, the vocal pickup is no problem. I just subvocalize, like I'm doing now, and the pickup sends hydronic wavesdown to the recorder. "Uh, oh, here I am at the, ah, I guess you'd call it recruiting station. I'm just a poor Chlorella skimmer answering an ad for easy work and out forms. Say, some the girls here have pretty good forms. If it wasn't for the smell, I could really go for some of these. Sometimes I wish I was more like Captain Gochi. You can get a lot more out of life that way. "I've turned the form in, and here comes some crooked looking clown with a sickening I-eat-it-lukewarm grin on his face. He just barely glanced at the form. I don't think he can read, but he says I'm in." The ambassador stopped the recording. "It goes on for a good many hours. I think what you really want to hear is near the end." He ran the molecular ribbon forward at fast speed and stopped at a given point. The listeners across the street heard the voder voice continue. "I think I'm at the last stop, now. I don't know why, but something screams silently to me. I haven't the slightest idea where I am now, but I'd guess we're out in a Chlorella growing area someplace. The stench is worse than usual. Tf there's any hidden take-off ' don here, I haven't come across it. "Uh, oh. I was just told to sit in a chair. Suddenly some clamps popped up. I can't get the things loose. The chair's moving now. I'm in a tunnel. Damn -- the chair suddenly flattened out to form a bed. No, it's more like... Hey, it's more like a doctor's operating table. I don't like this one little bit. Why the Hell didn't someone give me a Panic Button I could press. Next time I'll be damned if I volunteer for anything but an honorable discharge and a trip home. "By straining my neck I can see ahead some. There's a pretty girl on one of these things just ahead of me. There's some kind of machinery looming. I think... "Oh, God, it's slicing into her! These lousy Earthmen aren't human, not human, not..." The voice stopped. T he admiral said, "Don't stop it now." "I didn't. Automatic stop. That's the end. We didn't know what was happening, of course, but we were to keep track of our man by transponding the recorder. Every so often, we'd send out a coded beep and get an answer back." The admiral motioned impatiently. "The crux of the matter, let's get to it, if you please." The ambassador shrugged, turning the recorder around and around aimlessly on the desk. "We found the recorder embedded in a twopound roast in a butcher shop. Would you like to know how much it cost?" "Look, just because you lost a man, you don't have to get flip. I lose thousands when I have to. It's unfortunate, and despite the man's obviously anti-service attitude, I'm recommending him for posthumous decorations. Special widow's pension and all that sort of thing. Just one more question: are you sure this black market meat business is widespread enough to account for the population discrepencies you noted?" The ambassador nodded. "Yes. Since we got the clue we've checked a lot of places and found this to be very common. I was just waiting for your arrival to pass the word to the staff to stay out of public restaurants. We'll check what we buy locally, and we may rely more heavily on imports." "Yes, I should think you would. Well, you can order the yacht for me, and signal the destroyer to stand by at the rendezvous point. I'd just as soon get out of here as fast as we can. I don't like the place. It stinks." Ambassador Sushi eyed the admiral, as if trying to read his thoughts. He finally asked, "And your recommendation. Admiral?" The admiral gave a deprecatory shrug. "Nothing but a bunch of savages. These Earthmen can never amount to anything and certainly not a major threat. I haven't found any evidence of real intelligence." Across the street, the head of Earth's secret service drew a deep breath. Its intensity startled him. He realized then just how tense he had been. Scarcely able to contain a grin, he turned to Joe and said, "I was sure worried for a while, let me tell you. We would have had some scrambling to do if my opinion of the Hiroku hadn't been confirmed here." Joe said, "Not so bright, eh?" The chief knocked out his pipe on an ash tray. The pipe had gone out unnoticed while half smoked. He said, "Well, you have to give the Devil his due. Technically, they're pretty smart. Their weapons and meanisms are top grade, and I'd bate to come up against them in a fair fight. But when it comes to subtleties of infighting, they're just not in our class. They simply never had our type of dog-eat-dog existence in their daily lives." Chief Oxblood became aware of an unspoken question hovering in the room. He could see it in the IF faces of the technicians and his every nine persons shipping out to aides. "Dog-eat-dog, I said. Well, the starbases and colony planets, one maybe it isn't quite so bad as all has to stay home and give his life that, really. Still, I'd advise you to in a rear-guard delaying action to stay out of public restaurants for protect the others. If they had to quite a while." fight their way through a screen The room was silent, except for of Hirokan warships, the casualty the random cracklings of the loudfigures would be a hundred times speaker caused by pickup of air higher." molecule collisions in the embassy. "I guess we all know what you The vision screen showed only an mean," Joe said ."We're better off empty room. Admiral Ikara was alfighting on our own terms and our ready on his way home. own ground. That poor slob of a Hirokan never had a chance in our T he sick look on the faces was battle of wits. We cracked the transtill there. The chief said, sponder code in nothing flat. It was "Damn it, we have to keep sending like sending an unarmed man into people to the slaughterhouses and combat." the butcher shops just as we've alChief Oxblood ordered the techways sent them to the front lines, nicians to shut off the laser probes The Hiroku aren't going to be fooled and kill the recording and decoding by a few token corpses, you know, setup. "Yes," he said, more to himThis isn't a game for marbles. Our self than to the others in the room, cover stoiy has to be good, damn "forewarned is forearmed. Successful good. We're using our top weapon fighting is knowing when to strike against the Hiroku, and we have to -- and when to dodge. It's all a by Robert A. Heinlein (originally published in IF) by Jack Vance by Larry Niven (originally published in IF) Best Magazine: F (for fhe second straight year) Best Artist: Jack Gaughan T he oval bedroom and boudoir rocked with the wind and shook with the thunder. The curving, tempered glass of the continuous-view windows strained, relaxed, strained again. The lightning flashes showed outside only the lashing tops of the big pines against inky night. Inside they regularly drowned the clusters of rosy lights and blanched to bone the quilted, pearl-gray satin upholstery. At one end of the oval, the silvery, spiral stairway leading up to the flat roof and down to the elevator floor cast momentarily flaring, fantastic shadows across the tufted floor and the great central bed with its huge silk pillows and pearl-gray comforter. The old lady occupying an edge of the bed looked like the bent-waist mummy of a girl freshly wrapped and hurriedly fitted with a shaggy blonde wig and blonde silk nightgown. But the brown human claw did not tremble, holding the antiqueinspired, pearl-gray phone greedily close to ear and lips, while the wrinkle-webbed eye gleamed with the lightning and without it, like jewels of obsidian or black onyx. the doctor yet, you bitch? madam. He has gone out on an emergency case. I am trying to contact his copter, but the storm is interfering with short-wave telephony. O.L.: I know all about the storm. Haven't you arranged yet for my medicine to be delivered, you incompetent slut? A. S. : No, madam. The copters of all regional taxi and delivery services have been grounded by the storm. There have been two deaths by frightening -- excuse me, lightning. I have your Cardinal pills here now. If the madam's phone were equipped with a matter-reoeiver -- OL: It isn't. Stop tormenting me by holding those pills just out of reach. Haven't you got the doctor yet? AS: No, madam. He has gone out on an emergency case. I am trying to contact his copter, but the storm -- OL; That tape is beginning to bore me. You are just a bunch of tapes, aren't you? All very cleverly keyed to whatever I say, but still just a bunch of tapes. AS: No, madam. I am a flesh-andblood woman, age #, name Doris. It's true, I sometimes think I'm just a tape. I'm surrounded by miles of them, which do answer routine inquiries. Alongside my mattertransmitter and keyboard I have a tape-writer for punching out more tapes. I have a long scissors and a pot of cement for editing them. But I am truly not a tape myself, though once  I took a small bottle of sleeping pills because I thought -- No, no, I am a flesh-and-blood woman, age # ... OL:... name Doris. Yes, I got that on the first spin past the transmitting head. So now we have tapes with biographies, tapes that attempt suicide and ask for sympathy, tapes that play on the customer's feelings. How charming. Here I am,an old woman, all alone in a storm, and without a single servant, ever since the government with its red tape and its oversell of democracy made it poible to hire them, or even private nurses. An old -- AS: You haven't a robot nurse, madam? OL: Shining horrors! No! I'm just an old, old woman, all alone, dying for lack of a doctor and medicine, but privileged to listen to tapes making excuses. AS: Please, madam, I am not -- OL: Ooooh... my heart... please, nurse, my Cardinal pills... please, tape... AS: Madam! Madam? OL:... my heart... I'm going... ooooh... A S: Madam, I'm breaking the rules to say this, but if you're having a heart attack, it's essential that you relax, make no effort or outcry, waste no strength on -- OL: Oooh... yes, and tapes to help you die quietly, to leave your tortured body without making a fuss that might embarrass the powers that be. Oh, don't worry, dear tape, -- and let's not have any sympathetic-anxiety spools. I'm over that spasm now and merely waiting for the next. Just an old woman alone in the midst of a dreadful storm -- hear that crash? -- listening to tapes and waiting to die for lack of one Cardinal pill. AS: Madam, a phone of your rating should have a matter-receiver. Are you quite certain you have not? I will inquire of our master files -- OL: And tapes to make a sales pitch while you die. Next you'll be trying to sell me a casket and a burial plot, or even um space in a tomb satellite. I already have the first two of those, thank you. I do not have a matter-receiver. AS: Madam, I am not trying to sell you anything, I am trying to IF save your life. I have your Cardinal pills here -- OL: Stop tantalizing me. AS: -- and I am doing everytihing I can to get them to you. If you had a matter-receiver, I would oy have to drop one of the pills in the transmitter bowl in front of me or punch out its codes, and you would have it the next microsecond. Well over # percent of all phones of your rating have both a matter-receiver and telekinesis glove. I will inquire -- OL: Oh yes, a telekinesis glove -- so I'd be able to sign checks longdistance for silver caskets coo with pearls and orchid plots and pills and masses to be said for my soul in Chartres, no doubt. But I don't have one, ha-ha, or a matter-receiver either. Who'd swallow a pill that came over a wire, all dirty with oil and electricity? Oooh...  AS: I have programmed an inquiry, madam. It is possible that you have a matter-receiver and iaren't aware of it. Please don't distress or in any way exert yourself, madam; but I must point out to you that actual matter is never transmitted over the waves or wires and that, in any case, no oil is involved. The chemical and mass-shape codes for the object are punched into the transmitter or analyzed from a sample. Only those codes travel over the wires or waves. When they reach the receiver, they instantly synthesize an exact duplicate from standard raw materials there. I am oversimplifying somewhat, but -- OL: Even tapes to give lectures, to contradict and argue with a dying customer. Very clever indeed, especially when one knows that a computer, working a tnllkm times as fast as a mere hxain, can always outthink a human being, even one who isn't dying. A S: Madam, I am not a tapd I ,am a flesh-and-blood... Oh, what's the use? OL: That would have been the third running for that one. Is it possible that even a computer, even a tape has a little shame? Very well, my dear, we will pretend you are not a tape, but a woman: age #, name Doris. A young woman -- it's only bitchy little sexpots that get to record those tapes, isn't it? Or do .they concoct them entirely nowadays from the squeal of metal and the hum of power? Anyhow, we'll pretend you're a beautiful young woman who is tormenting me with pills I can't have and with grounded delivery-copters and with doctors who have skipped off on emergency visits to their mistresses and can't be reached. Yes, ,a beautiful vicious young woman, dear tape. At least that will give me something definite to hate while I die here all alone, someone who could conceivably suffer as I suffer. Ooooh... AS: Madam, I am not beautiful and I'm trying hard not to be vicious. And I'm quite as alone as you are. All alone in a tiny cubical, surroimded by yards and yards of electric circuits, until my relief turns up. Yet I can faintly hear through the airconditioning system the same storm you're having. It's movipg my way. OL: I'm glad you're all alone. I'm glad you can hear the storm. I'm glad you're in a tiny cubical and can't get away. Then you can imagine something horrible creeping silentlly toward you, as death is creeping toward me, while you puff your cigarettes into the air-conditioning outlet and drink your cocktails from a flask disguised as a walkie-talkie, I imagine, and preen yourself in front of a mirror and call one of your boy friends and amuse yourself by cat-and-mousing an old woman dying -- AS: Stop, mother, please! OL: So now I've become the mother of a tape. How interesting. Oh, excuse me, dear, I forgot we're pretending you're a beautiful young woman; but my memory's not so good these last hours, or minutes. And besides, it startled me so to discover ithat now tapes -- excuse me again -- even have mother fixations and have been psychoanalyzed, no doubt, and -- A S: Please, madam, I'm being serious. I may not be dying, but I wish I were -- OL: You're making me feel better, dear. Thank you. AS: -- so I'm every bit as miserable as you are. I took this job because of something that happened to me when I was a very little girl. My mother had a sudden heart attack and couldn't move, and she asked me to get her medicine. But I wouldn't do it because I'd asked her for candy a half hour before and she'd refused to give me any, and so I refused to move. She always called my medicine "candy," and I didn't understand what was happening at all. I thought I was just getting even. I didn't realize she was dying. And so long afterwards I took this job so I could help other people who were in her situation and make up for my crime and so I could -- OL: Oh no, my dear, you took this job so you could repeat over and over with gloating satisfaction the hot excitement you got when you watched your mother die and knew it was you who were kilb ing her, so you could go on and on and on refusing to give old women their medicine or get them doctors, meanwhile showering them with sticky sweet sympathy, like poison for ants, and, not content widi that torture, slipping in dirty little pleas for sympathy for your own vidous, murderous self -- AS: Oh, stop, stop, stop. I'm human! Three point one four one six. Pi. One three five seven eleven thirteen. Primes. Two four eight sixteen -- OL: How like a machine. Nothing but numbers. Confused with food. You're going crazy, machine. AS: Oh, stop, stop, stop! I tell you I'm flesh-and-blood -- . OL: Female, age #, name Doris. AS: -- and I'm serious about all this, and I know this isn't the job for me at all, because I'm so horribly lonely; and what you say about me is the way I suspect myself of feeling, though I'm trying ,as hard as I can to feel the other way, the loving way, and I'm afraid -- OL: I'm glad you can feel guilt. Love -- don't make me laugh. But I'm glad you're afraid. Because then IF you can imagine something creeping toward you as deadly as what's creeping toward me. What if your tapes should loop out and strangle you? What if your filthy mattertransmitter should suck you in and spit you out into a red-hot volcano or at the north pole or at the bottom of the Challanger Deep or on the sun side of Mercury? What's that now? -- closer than the storm, rattling the grill of your ventilation inlet? What's that coming out of the answer slot of the computer? Why are the needle points of the long narrow blades of the scissors swinging toward you? AS: Oh, stop, stop, stop, or they'll jump at my heart! Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop -- OL: Shut up! I'm tired of pretending. I'm just an old woman dying. And you're just tapes. Yes, just tapes. I know that because I've been insulting you every way I could, and you've been taking it. A live human being wouldn't. And only a tape would call me "madam." A democratized woman -- and there aren't any others under # -- would call me dearie or senior citizen. And I've made you spend an hour on me. They'd never let a human being waste her working time like that, and she wouldn't care to. But tapes? -- who cares? Plug the old dame in on them and let her play with them until she dies! And finally one tape got stuck on the word stop and kept jerking back and forth there, over and over. Ooooh... boooh... this is the end, at last... ooooh... the master files show that your phone is equipped with a miniaturized Important Trifle matter-receiver! It's hidden in the earpiece! I will place the Cardinal pill on the bowl and -- OL: Ooooh... too late, tape... I'm dying... AS: Please, madam. For my sake. O L: No, tape... I'm going now... I leave the horrors to you... I'm dying... like your mother... I'm... dead... The cadaverous old lady carefully dropped the phone, not on its prongs This month in Galaxy -- A Complete Short Novel by Poul Anderson by Richard Wilson by Robert Silverberg by Harry Harrison All in the December issue of Galaxy -- on sale now! or the floor, buit with a dull, short clatter on the edge of the thick pale marble top of the night table. She leaned back into the huge pillows. Something tiny rattled on the table top. She did not look. The phone called very faintly with an insect's voice "Madam!" and "Mother!" again and again. She did not answer. The storm was almost over, the lightning gone, the thunder faded; but now came a different thunder, a muted thunder, a thunder that grew and made the old lady frown. It drowned the phone's faint screaming, like that of a faroff cicada. Something shook the ceiling, then jarred it. There was a rapid tattoo of footsteps overhead, the creek and slam of a door, a clatter of footsteps down the silver stairs. Approaching her briskly was a slim, middle-aged man carrying a black bag and shaking a few water drops off his trim gray suit. "Well, what's it this time?" he demanded with a cheery roughness. "Used your sleeping pills up too fast, I suppose, and then worked yourself into a tantrum. I'll have you know I've delayed delivering the Governor's daughter's baby, just to make sure you keep me in your will." She grinned at him, the tip of her nose straining toward the point of her chin. "The sleeping pills, yes, you clever devil. Oh, and I lost my temper with your stupid answering service." "Don't blame you there. I curse them a dozen times a day myself. Only get psychoneurotics to take that job. Everyone else demands a social working-life. Now let's just -- Whafs thatr H e had stopped with a jerk and was pointing at the phone. In one frantic scramble the old lady thrust herself halfway across the bed and halfway out of the covers and crouched, looking back. She began to tremble as the doctor was trembling. But her lips were smiling, and her eyes glittered like jet. Flowing steadily from the small black hole in the center of the pearldropping down past ithe pale marble and puddling on the pearl-gray satin comforter was a thin rippling ribbon of bright blood. IF  Feature Our Mar in Fandom looks over the swinging European scene! W 'ould you believe there are science-fiction magazines and readers and out-and-out fans all over the world, not just here in the U.S.? It's true -- science fiction is published and read in Germany, Spain, Finland, Great Britain, Italy, France, Sweden, Ireland -- even in Japan. Why, there are even SF enthusiasts in Russia, of all places. In fact, I understand science fiction is enormously popular behind the Iron Curtain... which leads me to suspect critics may be right, when they say we read the stuff mostly for "escape." Here in America, we tend to consider SF to be a homegrown product, fandom then being a local phenomenon. This is absolutely not the case. While the world's first science-fiction magazine was American, the original pioneers of the stuff were French (Jules Verne) and English (H.G. Wells), and SF is as much a part of the popular culture of Europe as it is here. Since sciencefiction magazines, books and paperbacks are published overseas, and since we know from American fan history that this always seems to stimulate a certain small percentage of the readership into organizing clubs, holding conventions and printing up fanzines, it's not surprising fandom is a going concern on the other side of the Atlantic. Why, there's a science-fiction convention in Germany every year -- a dozen fanzines emerging in Sweden -- an annual convention in Great Britain during the Easter holidays -- and a booming fan renaissance going on in France! Vhat do they read? Surprisingly enough, the foreign fandoms are nurtured on just about the same reading matter we enjoy , over here. James Blish and Andre Norton get published in Denmark and Germany. In Italy, a paperback series called La Bussola SF does A. E. Van Vogt and C. L. Moore. Science-fiction readers in France read Galaxy (although over tihcre they call it Galaxie; and in Germany, the edition of Galaxy is n Galaxis; it comes out rather sporadically and looks like an AmMican paperback. Science-fiction magazines are published all over. There used to be a Swedish edition of Galaxy, and about ten years back there was a Finnish edition which lasted abput a year. There was another Swedish sciencefiction magazine, a local product called Hapna, which has gone under. And in Italy and Germany there are several local science-fiction magazines. The Fantastic Success of Perry Rhodan Germany is the scene of the most astonishing fannish movement of all. The German fans are so numerous and so active, they publish literally hundreds of fanzines. This "Gerfandom" movement (as they call themselves) got started about #I or thereabouts. And once the ball started really rolling, it snowballed into such a flurry of activity that Gerfandom seriously plans to make a bid soon to be the site of the Annual World SF Convention in # or #. An example of the sort of popularity science fiction enjoys in Germany can be given in two historic words: Perry Rhodan, "Perry" is an American astronaut, who, in his original magazine appearance, landed on the moon to discover that an alien spaceship was already there. (Sounds familiar? I guess they get American science-fiction movies over there, too!) Anyway, Perry and his pals joined up with the aliens for a planet-by-planet tour of the Solar System that spawned not just two or three sequels, but literally hundreds. Perry Rhodan (which the team of six or seven German writers who produce the series by teamwork fondly imagine to be a "typical American-type name") has become the European answer to Adam Link, the Lensmen, Retief, Captain Future and the Foundation Series rolled up Today, Perry has worked his way through the entire Milky Way galaxy and is reportedly about to make the big jump into the next galaxy! Perry and his pals got started, I am told, in a German pulp magazine that came out weekly or biweekly. As they went on to become just about the most fantastically successful phenomenon to arise since the happy day when Hugo Gernsback put the two words "science" and "fiction" together to make magazine history, Perry Rhodan outgrew the skimpy, confines of his magazine to explode all over the newsstands in a paperback novel series of incredible size. (I am told there have been something like # novels about Perry and his astronautical chums by now... that's right, three hundred and fifty novels! No wonder they need seven guys to write the stuff!) So voluminous has the Perry Rhodan saga become, the German publishers are now beginning to reissue the earlier sixty or seventy novels, for those who came in after the curtain went up... Incidentally, we Amerifans may soon get a look at Perry. Old-time science-fiction fan and editor of Famous Monsters, Forrest J AckerIF man, whose wife is currently translating some of the Perry Rhodan novels into English, is acting as Perry's agent, trying to find an American publisher for the supersedes. What about books? Not only do the foreign fans read Galaxy just like we Americans, but they have their own Science Fiction Book Club, too, although it's not published by Doubleday as is ours. In Italy, a publishing house called Casa Editrice la Tribuna has a hardcover series of novels and shortstory collections they issue every two months under the title of The Science Fiction Book Club. The club's selections consist of titles we are pretty familiar with on this side of the Atlantic, things like Walter M. Miller, Jr.'s A Canticle for Leibowitz (forgive me if I don't try to give these titles in their Italian form, okay?), Ray Bradbury's A Medicine for Melancholy, Kurt Vonnegut's Player Piano, Philip Jose Farmer's The Lovers, and other stuff by Clifford D. Simak and comparable writers. In England, of course, a very large number of American writers are published in hardcover reprints. England also has its own science-fiction book club (called The Science Fiction Book Club and published by Phoenix House, Ltd.). England has had many sciencefiction magazines come and go. For many years a local product, ScU ence Fantasy, dominated the SF scene and discovered and developed whole generations of writers (one of their last major discoveries was J.G. Ballard). Science Fantasy changed its name to Impulse and went under finally, after a long and rather glorious history. Then a bunch of British fans got together and produced a fanoperated but newsstand-distributed professional SF mag called Alien World, which did not manage to survive very long. Today, there is only one prozine surviving, and that's New Worlds, which has recently produced its #I st consecutive issue. Even imder the imaginative editorship of the popular young writer Michael Moorcock, whose work has been appearing over here in paperback recently, New Worlds began getting a bit wobbly in the sales figures. Happily for British fandom, a British Arts Council subsidy arrived in time to save this venerable and excellent title from extinction. Elsewhere, things are looking up. In Italy these days, a brand new science-fiction magazine is starting up under the title of Nova SF. It contains, or will contain since I'm not certain just when the venture wUl be launched, a selection of stories translated from English, plus reviews and critical essays and the like. JVbvfl SF has an Advisory Board made up of experts well known on both sides of the Atlantic -- people like Brian Aldiss and Don WoUheim. This new magazine will not appear on the newsstands, but will be sold through the mails by subscription only. This move spares the publishers a lot of worry about distributors and newsstand display and so on. Incidentally, in Italy, due to the peculiarities of the Italian language, "SF" is known as "FS" since the pbarse when j:endered into that lingo comes out something like fantascienza. Meanwhile, in Germany, the common term for science fiction is futur-romanz. Great Ghu only knows what k is in Japanese! Yes, there is at least one professional science-fiction magazine in Japan, and it's the Japanese edition of Galaxy. I won't try to reproduce the title of the magazine here, as our trusty typesetters might go through the roof if I asked them to dig up typeface in the Japanese characters! Do foreign fans ever visit fan conventions in the United States? Yes, they do; for about ten years or so there has been a Nice Ttog going called T.A.F.F. The name means "Trans-Atlantic Fan Fund." Fans on both sides of the ocean get together and raise a sizable sum of money, five hundred dollars, maybe as much as a thousand dollars, and give it to a popular American fan so he can afford to visit a convention overseas -- or to a popular foreign fan, so he can come to an American convention. For instance, back in #, fans around the world donated their dollars, pounds, francs and pfennigs to Belfast, Ireland, to the # World Science Fiction Convention which was held that year in Chicago, T.A.F.F. money went to an American fan named Terry Carr, and with it he and his wife traveled to the World Con in London, England. Last year, it was a fan from Germany. Tom Schluck of Hanover, West Germany, one of the most active and popular fans in Europe came to visit the # Con in Cleveland. Tom, who is a young fellow in his twenties works in a German bank and (since he is fluent in both languages) moonlights by translating American science fiction into German for the German SF magazines. Fans are nominated to run for election, which is how one gets selected for T.A.F.F. This happens every year. To vote for the fan of your choice, you send in a dollar or more, which is added to the central fimd. Also, World Conventions donate surplus funds to T.A.F.F., and I understand that it's not unheard of for one of the science-fiction magazines to donate a modest sum to this pleasant cause. Not too many people in fandom can afford the travel expenses one incurs in a transatlantic flight to another country. And since lots of fans in other countries felt left out of things, a number of American fans over the years (starting with a Florida boy named Shelby Vick) began urging the idea into actuality. Next month, we'll take a closeup look at what goes on in the annual British and German conventions... maybe take an advance look at German fandom's plans for a World Convention... and compare some of the foreign fanzines to the local oo IF Illustrated by Sea owned the planet. And in its rages of rebirth. Sea came close to destroying it entirely! I I n Tenabur Wood the bregfern grows tall and dusky-green betrees. Especially along Nottan River, where the canopy 'grudgingly lets in a few startling shafts of ruddy sunlight, the breg is thick. It so smothers the dank ground that two furtive creatures might huddle within a leap, each invisible to the other. It was there that Latpur -- apprentice to the Prognosticator Deeoon -- crouched, his ears erect and cupped forward, his dull-blue nostrils atwitch for any scent that might penetrate to him, his tritaioned paws digging into the cool black mud. Again, faint sounds reached him. He was sure, this time, that they came from across the river. He hesitated a moment longer, senses astrain for any hint of nearer danger. Then he crept forward, parting the breg carefully with a forepaw until he could peer out. He released his breath in a noiseless sigh. The strange vroal on the little sandstrip opposite could only be the itinerant shaman Gultaz of whom Deeoon had been muttering lately. The interloper was indeed of a different race of vroal. Where Latpur's own fur was dull gray, this other's was olive-green, a hit lighter than the bregfern. He wasn't really a giant. He'd be little heavier than plump old Deeoon, but his feet and forepaws were large, his snout big, his active dark eyes sunk under a heavy brow. His accoutrements were odd, too. Instead of a simple cinch like Latpur's, he wore a wide, ornate belt of painted leather, festooned with a weird assortment of objects -- a thigh-bone of some small animal, inlaid with glittering metal; a silvery mirror-disk with two holes in it; a small flute made of bone or horn; three or four skewers or awls that looked like hard metal. The only weapon was a knife with a bone handle, more intricately carved than Latpur's but not essentially different. There might be other weapons, or Sea knew what oddities, in the yokepack on the sand. A shrill cry made Latpur go tense. A green-and-yellow bird flashed through a shaft of sunlight, whirled out in two quick circles over the water, then shot toward Gultaz. The foreign shaman lifted a forepaw. Evidently he held grain or something in it, for the bird lit on his wrist and began to peck. Gultaz stood as if waiting. Moments later another bird swooped into sight from downstream and joined its fellow on the shaman's wrist. Gultaz clucked softly, let the birds feed a moment, then tossed them into the air to settle on a treebranch. Whatever he might possess in the way of magic, he obviously didn't rely on it to guard him. Those birds clearly scouted like tchinniirds. Now Gultaz was removing his belt, laying it carefully atop the yokepack and eyeing the river in a practiced way. Before wading in, he got down to all fours, lowered his head, immersed one ear and cupped a paw over the other. Then, satisfied, he entered the water silently. There was no air of joy about the bathing. Instead, it was dutiful and perhaps ritual. Also, Gultaz tasted the water carefully. The shaman's attention to the river goaded Latpur's uneasiness. He stayed long enough to watch Gultaz emerge, shake himself, don the belt and yokepack and slip into the ferns. The bright birds -- silent now -- flitted watchfully ahead. Then Latpur crept from the fempatoh. Seeking the most open stretches of the wood, he went stealthily on hind legs, senses alert, imtil he reached open ground. Then, on all fours, he loped up the sunny grassland toward the quartzcrowned hill where he and Deeoon lived. IF T he plump, graying Prognosticator let his sharp eyes sweep over Latpur before he grunted, "Well, why the haste?" "Reason enough, gruol I saw the foreign shaman! He wore a belt hung with strange mystic devices. He had two gaudy birds that flew as scouts. He bathed with odd gestures and tasted the water repeatedly." Latpur paused for breath. "Will you tell me, gruo, how you knew he'd be coming and where I should watch?" Deeoon made a sign of impatience. "I told you he followed Sea, and Sea has been showing signs of interest in Nottan River lately. Naturally I progged he'd come. He was here before, even though Sea's interest then didn't come to anything." "Oh," Latpur said. "And naturally you remembered where he bathed before." Deeoon lowered his brow in amusement. "Of course. But that wasn't where I had you watch. I progged he'd avoid the old spot out of elementary caution. I chose the only other one with the right approaches and river currents for his purpose." "Well," Latpur said, "he didn't seem to taste anything that was particularly significant." Deeoon gestured toward a small bowl of clear quartz, half full of purplish liquid, with a flat cover over it. "That's the sample of lowerriver water you got yesterday. Reagents show nothing unusual yet. Eat, and rest yourself. Tomorrow I send you on an overnight mission. Go down to rivermouth and fetch me samples of the sea, on both siQc, and pouches of sand as well. Also samples of eddy-water from the river, below the great rock. Don't take any risky short-cuts; there's no immediate urgency. Go via farmland. While you're there, climb the rock and look southward to see if the aliens who say they're from another world are still in the same place. If they are, trot down and warn them that Sea will probably spawn in Nottan River less than ten days from now. Tell them they'd better move." "Yes, gruo." "And on the way back, stop at Village, Wemm and try to collect the fee they still owe us. If they won't pay ail, get what you can. Tell them I'm peeved." Latpur said, "Shall I not also warn them about the Spawning?" Deeoon sighed. "I prog it won't be necessary. Gultaz will already have put a scare into them, some way or other." Latpur turned toward the food niche, then paused. "Is he as evil as he looks?" "Evil enough. My last-but-one apprentice ran afoul of him and disappeared. You be cautious. At least he'll want to sell the people charms and spells, and gouge whatever he can. He won't want you around talking sense to them." Latpur said disgustedly, "Superstitious root-diggers!" Deeoon frowned. "When you've been a Prognosticator as long as I have, you'll be less certain what's superstition and what's sound instinct." n N ext morning's sun was goldenled and already warm on the rolling lands through which Latpur cantered. One of his tchinni rode on his head (the part of him that bounced least) while the other flew a zigzag path in advance. Once, the scouting bird shrilled an alert and swooped beyond a ridge. When Latpur topped the ridge cautiously the bird was far down the other slope, circling over a glond, a huge old male Latpur recognized by a scar on one orangebrown flank. He judged, from the leisurely way it trotted, that it was returning to its lair after a successful night's hunt, which meant it wasn't dangerous at the moment if he kept his distance. It was ignoring the swift bird above it. Latpur watched it quicken pace on more level ground, its great leg-muscles bunching, then pause just at the edge of the brush bordering Tenabur Wood to lift its big head and sniff the air. For a moment it turned and peered up toward him, knowing, no doubt, where to look for the bird's owner. Then it stalked into the brush. Latpur stayed a moment, fixing every detail in his mind. There was never any telling what seemingly insignificantthing might hold meaning for Deeoon. He turned and scanned the country ahead. Off to the left of his route, a dozen local vroal were walking uplift toward a tuber-patch, spades on their shoulders. He started that way, and presently his second tchinni let out a chirp, rose and circled once, then shot off toward the group, doubtless to renew acquaintances with others of its kind. To his surprise, when the farmers spotted him they laid down their digging-tools and came loping on all fours to meet him. Before they were even close, one called out, "Hoy! Apprentice! What news of Sea?" Latpur sighed. When they used the word like that, they meant Seaentity, not simply the sea. So they already had warning. He said unoertaidy, "I'm going down to get samples of water and sand right now. Deeoon thinks -- " The spokesman scowled. "Your gruo's too damned cagey with what he th inks , land what he says. Last night a young she of my 'klatch was bespelled so that she wandered in the dark alone for hours on Loochiss Creek. What's more, her tchinni abandoned her and flew home, acting demented. And what's still more, a glond stalked her -- then, face#o-face, within springingdistance, suddenly snarled in fear and backed away!" Latpur stared, trying to overcome his prickling of fear. It was hard to ignore the old tales and legends. Finally he said, "If she was crazed, she could imagine anything. Anyway, I don't -- what reason is there to talk about Sea being involved or about bewitchment?" "Ha!" the farmer snorted. "You've absorbed so much of Deeoon's nonsense you talk like him. I think I'll take this she to Deeoon and let him explain the marks around her neck! IP Special A # Issues  # B # Issues # Gift Rales C # Issues  # D # Issues # Add # for each (# issues) for foreign subscription   F # Issues of Each #-# In All Enclosed please find  in payment for subscriptions to be sent in accordance with the offers indicated in each case below: n  enclose additional gifts, on separate sheet No Postage Stamp Necessary if Mailed in the U. S. Give the gift you eronld like to receive Permit Na # Sec. #, P.L.R. New Yofk,N.Y. No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States The fur singed away, as if by a redhot necklace! You've heard of Sea's necklaces! What do you say to that?" Latpur gaped for a iminute, mustered himself and said with more firmness than he felt, 'I say I must be on about my errands, so that Deeoon can assess things and give you sound advice. Good digging to you, farmers." He loped away, trying to look confident. An outbreak of superstition was always bad for a Prognosticator and his apprentices. In such times, he brooded, it might almost be wise to be a shaman, whether you believed in magic or not. He was out of sight before he realized he'd neglected to ask questions or even observe such details as the condition of the farmers' persons, belts and tools. Deeoon would be angry with him. He stopped, half inclined to go back, but couldn't bring himself to it. And anyway, his mind was beginning to work. Maybe -- magic or not -- the interloper Gultaz bad something to do with their strange story. F rom the pinnacle of the great rock around which Nottan River swerved, the sea looked calm enough. The boom and crash of the surf was only a mutter, up here. It was old, he thought, how water so deeply purple could become delicate turquoise in the shallows or turn to foam as dazzling-white as the sand. He watched the crisscross wave patterns that made the brackish mouth of Nottan River look like some shifting, living, woven fabric. He could almost imagine that the sea was alive all the time. Near that brackish mouth, the sand was green with algae. river itself was tinged, too -- he could easily distinguish the eddies where the water was just mixed enough to support the alie. Fish would be darting there. He looked about carutty, nothig how the few clouds moved and hew the sea birds wheeled within certain updrafts or dove at schools of emafl fish beyond the surf. He must describe everything accurately to Decoon. He studied the beaek below him. Was there a slight mounding on each side of the river mouth? It was hard to remember actly hew things had looked on his last visit. With practice, Deeoon said, hed he able to recall vividly. He turned and looked eoulhwecd again at the strange metal cyUnder, dwarfed by distance, an hour's tmt down the beach. His heart quickened. Of all ithe ages, to be bom in this one that saw visitors from another world! And if, also, he were privileged to witness a Spawning... A Spawning hadn't occurred in this part of the world for many generations. His grandfather had made a long trip once and seen the devastation left by one. That, in fact, was how Latpur came to be Deeoon's ptesent apprentice -- Deeoon had promised such, in return for the grandfather's first-hand descriptions. He clucked to his tcbimii and started down from the rock. He'd collect his sample first, then lope down to the alien ship. Probabfy they'd let him sleep the night deee to the great bull lor safety. T he alien called Meecham the specialist studying vroal lajiguage, came out of the ship to meet him. Meecham's voctbulairy was small, but his accent was good. As usual, he wore at his waist the litde box that could listen and mimic back perfectly. "I bid welcome. Why does Prognosticator Latpur honor us with this visit?" Latpur said dutifully, "Pm only an apprentice. Deeoon wants me to warn you of a rare and terrible event. The sea will come alive and spawn in Nottan River within the next few days! It would be wise for you to move a few hundred miles away." The alien looked at him for a moment. 'We thank you and your gruo for the warning. But we have -- " he searched for a word -- "devices plantedaround here that we must watch. And it's a leigthy process to get the ship ready to lift." Latpur shifted from one hind foot to Ihc other. "I'm afraid you don't understand. A spawning is a deadly thing! And Sea might he angry that you are here. It would be very foolish not to move." Meecham bobbed his head gravely. 'We thank you for your concern. I will tell our captain. But tell me, please -- What life form is it that will sp'awn? A fish of some kind?" "No, no! Sea! The sea-entity, that only com alive once in six years anywhere in the world!" Meecham bobbed his head again. "You've spoken of a sea-entity before. Have you seen it yourself?" "No," Latpur said a little impatiently. "I have ttot." #t "Then, have you talked with anyone who has?" "No. But it's a real thing! Not -- not superstition. Deeoon t hinks there's no magic at all. You must not doubt me! Do you not have a sea on your own world?" "We have several, and many things in them that spawn, but none that are very dangerous. Can you tell me what the danger is?" Latpur wrestled with his own vague conceptions. "There are manifestations that sting, and poisons, and burning necklaces... and... and all manner of things that appear. Whole regions are stripped of foliage, and almost all animals of any size arc killed and eaten. My own grandfather saw a region that had been devastated." Mcediam said yet again, 'We are grateful for the warning. Our captain will study it and decide. It may be that we can defend ourselves here. Please do not think us unresponsive. As strangers here, we must think carefully before making decisions. Now, if you have time, may I introduce my little girl to you? I promised her I would, next time you came." Latpur, hiding his impatience, agreed, accepted the alien's request that he wait and watched the alien climb rungs and work the handle of a door. So they still weren't going to invite him into the ship. They spoke of germs and study and said meanwhile he'd better not enter, partly for his own protection. He hadn't missed Meecham's honesty in saying "partly," and Deeoon had chuckled over his account. IF M eecham returned with the shechild. Latpur was surprised she was so like the adults, except for size. She was hardly a third Meecham's height and had pale hair though his was dark, but her limbs and torso and features differed only slightly in proportion. Meecham herded her forward. "Latpur, this is Laurie." He spoke to her in the alien tongue. She hung back, edging timidly behind her father and whispering to him. She called him "Daddy." Her eyes were wide with fright. She had an aliendoll that she dutched to herself tightly. Meecham laughed. "Please excuse her. This is her first sight of an -- of one of you." He explained more seriously, "You see, her mother -- my mate -- died less than a year ago. That's wihy I brought Laurie on this trip with me." "Oh," Latpur said awkardly. "I'm very sorry." Meecham murmured an acknowledgement, then seemed to listen to the talking-plug in one ear. He looked up at Latpur. "Our captain says he's sorry he's not here to greet you. He's away in the flyingcart. He asks that I make some sort of gift as a sign of friendship." Meecham looked thougjitful. "Will you excuse us for a moment?" He let the child scamper ahead of him. Latpur waited, eyes roving the area. One of his tchinni winged by, swerving around the alien ship, and scouted the beach beyond. There was a concentration of sea birds, far out. On the wet sand near him, a few small life forms crawled. The smells were normal -- the seasmell, the smells of the beach and; from the bordering brusldand, the musky-leafy-loamy-animat complex. Very faintly on the north breeze came the dank smell of Tenabur Wood, touched with the spice of plillom leaves. Was it possible life and foliage? He shuddered. Meecham returned alone, with a small stoppered vial holding many little strips of the stuff the aliens called "paper." "This is something you and Deeoon can use. You said you know about acids and bases." "Yes," Latpur said. The aliens had been astounded at his acquaintance with chemistry -- a thing, of course, that any Prognosticator needed. "Well," Meecham said, "this paper will change color to show different strengths of acid or base. By trying known solutions, you can learn which color represents what. It isn't magic. It's science." Latpur, intrigued, made the headbow of gratitude. "I thank you! I have nothing at the moment to give in return, but -- " The alien held up a hand. "You've just given us an important warning. We are in your debt." He waited for Latpur to say something. Latpur stirred with anger. Behind the alien's polite words was disbelief; even irony, perhaps. He almost handed back the gift. But Deeoon would not want him to do that. He hesitated. He didn't feel, now, like asking permission to sleep near the ship. "I must be going," he said formally. "I've been honored to talk again." The honor is ours, said Meem L atpur cantered back to tha great rock and climbed to a ledge where glonds or other large predators couldn't reach him. He chose the smoothest spot for a bed. He took some roasted tubers from his yokepack, crumbled part of one for his tchinni and munched the rest, along with strips of cooked and dried meat. The sun was setting, out of his sight. The rock's huge shadow stretched out over the sea which was now a very deep purple. The distant mutter of surf was punctuated by the cries of late-feeding sea birds. There was a line of clouds on the horizon. He wondered if a storm would overtake him before he got home. An ordinary storm he didn't fear, but Sea might ride the clouds now. It was strange, he thought, how mixed his feelings were. Within a few short days, the stable world was overturned. First, the aliens, with the stunning news that there were other worlds -- not half-believed paradises and purgatories, but solid worlds, with mountains and forests and rivers and seas and creatures, all strange! And the aliens' sciences, what he'd seen of them -- making him realize how primitive even Decoon's knowledge was. Though, of course, the old Prognosticator made marvelous use of it. And now the Spawning -- a dread, mystic thing that, a few days ago, had been no more in his mind than the other side of the world. The Stan were out now. He stared up at them until his neck ached From which did the aliens come? He wondered if Sea knew about the stars. Somehow, they now seemed to glare down balefully. He growled to himself. He was beginning to think like a superstitious farmer. Determinedly, he curled up to sleep. He did sleep, but all night he kept coming awake; trembling, vague furtive dreams in his mind, to lie and listen to the unresting surf. And, some time after oudnight, another sound wrenched him awake -- a keening somewhere on the river, as of some animal in pain. It was too high-pitched to be a gload. His tchinni stirred and twittered uneasily. Somehow he endured until anonaing and, after a tasteless breakfast and a thorough scan around, descended from the ledge and started home... The small settlement of Wemm was on the V of land where Loochiss Creek joined Nottan River. Most of the males and some of the females were out gathering tubers and nuts and grains, but the old mayor was at home. The grizzle-pelted elder scowled at Latpur. "And why should we pay fees to a Prognosticator who docs not warn us of the most fearful events of our lifetimes?" Latpur said, "In due course ay griio will give you exact predictions and advice. He doesn't go about peddling vague guesses. In any case, you owe us for advice on the spring planting. Your crops have been ORcellent." The elder scowled more deeply, and fingered a curious charm he wore on a thong around his neck -- a painted wooden disk, orange with three horizontal bars of green. 'T can't pay you the entire sum now; we've had other expenses. You'll have to be content with one-third for the moment." Latpur made a polite gesture. "May I have it, then?" Only after the elder had hobbled to a strong wooden cask and taken out six small bars of silver did Latpur say, "There is a false shaman about, a foreigner, who'll be trying to peddle chaims. Don't be fooled. They are useless." He pretended not to notice hoy guiltily the mayor's gnarled talons let go of the amulet. He made a bow. "Good health to you. Elder." D eeoon was tired and testy from two days of circulating among clients, but he brightened when Latpur gave him the aliens' gift and explained its use. "Splendid! Splendid! It will save reagents and work. A timely thing, too. We'll be short of funds, as I had no better luck than you in collecting fees. Come, let's get to work on those samples." First of all, he put a sample of rivermouth sand into a bowl, added distilled water, stirred and filtered off the liquid into a clear beaker. A slightly milky reagent went in, twenty-five drops or so; then two drops of a deep blue solution. Deeoon stirred with a fire-drawn rod of quartz. For a moment the mixture remained blue. Then, swiftly, it began to fade. "Ah!" exclaimed Deeoon, "It's farther along than I thought!" Latpur watched with excitement as the mixture turned light lavender, then pink, and finally colorless. leeooa picked up the beaker, sniffed at it and sighed. "There's a strange odor but it means nothing to me. If only we had more reliable pamphlets... Well, anyway, we'll see an onset within four days!" He turned to get another sample. Latpur said, "There was a happening, gruo." He told what he'd heard from the first group of farmers. Deeoon's face darkened. "The work of Gultaz, of course. There are drugs that can induce a kind of walking sleep, in which the victim will carry out orders, and later forget. It's a small chore, of course, to bewilder tchinni. For one thing, a certain kind of whistle, inaudible to us, will do it. Don't you recall that, from the pamphlet by Klazzar? And a certain unguent will repel glonds. Don't underestimate Gultaz's arts. Our need is to prog how he may move against us. He knows we'll try to discredit him." Deeoon turned back to his beakers. "Let's see, now..." T wo hours later the samples were all tested. Deeoon said, "A pattern emerges. This will be a great Spawning -- as vast as the one that devastated Soolban, where your grandfather traveled. I prog a series of dams in Nottan River for fifty miles inland -- perhaps even above Tenahur Wood entirely. Foraging will reach up all the tributaries and across the grasslands. But if the pamphlets are accurate it will not IF assail the higher hills or the mountains. The reason for that is simple: the basin itself is rich, and at this time of the year, which is a little late for a Spawning, it will be a hurried event, rather than a leisurely one with foraging farther from the river. You and I can spend tomorrow telling the popnilation where to flee. Then we'll leave for a high place I know where we can watch the lowlands without being intolerably endangered." Latpur's pulse pounded. "Would you approve, my gruo, my staying here as an on-the-spot observer?" Deeoon jerked his head around to stare. "Do you realize your chances, if you tried staying?" Latpur said excitedly, "You told me once there were precautions that sometimes help. And a few creatures do survive, don't they? What about Gultaz? He seems unworriedl" Deeoon scowled. "Of course! He has, the story goes, some redolent salve that protects him from Sea's foragers. But I have no hint of how he makes it." Latpur squirmed his weight around; finally got to his feet. "There's one way to get some -- steal it from him!" Deeoon grimaced. "Do you suppose others haven't tried? One of his arts is compelling beasts to guard his camps. I prog your chances at less than one in a thousand!" Latpur insisted hotly, "We're not artless ourselves! If there's an inaudible whistle to bewilder tohinim, it may work against his birds too! And you said there's a glend repellant. Can you make some?" Deeoon blinked. "Why, I have some, somewhere about. But it's never been given a good test." Latpur found himself grinning. "Tiis will be a good test. You know as well as I do, that old glond keeps other predators away from that part of the river." He watched Deeoon anxiously. "There's another thin-g on my mind, gruo. If the aliens stay, they may try to fight Sea. And that would be something to witness!" Deeoon blinked again, then suddenly lowered his brow in amusement. 'Try, then, for Gultaz's unguent! Day after tomorrow -- we must send the farmers away, tomorrow. And if you get the unguent, I'll stay too! Even if you fail, we can shut ourselves up in a cave at the last minute and hope we're not rooted out!" IV L atpur swam Nottan River, queasily, in the upper fringes of Teoabur Wood, miles above where he'd seen Gultaz. Across, he took off his yokepack and drained it, shook himself, applied glond repellent and started downstream. He felt nervous going down the gloomy north bank. He kept imagining stealthy sounds in the hreg. He was travelling without his tohinni, as their presence might betray him. On a thong around his neck was the whistle Deeoon had made. To his nostrils, the glond repellent he wore smelled burnt and caustic and drowned out other smells. Ahead of him, something big crashed through the breg and plunged int the water. An amphibian. He croudhed, trying to sniff the breeze, whioh was behind him -- an eddity, since he faced seaward -- but the glond repellent overpowered everything. An orange and green bird, doubtless attracted by the amphibian's dive, flashed overhead. Should he use the whistle? Erratic behavior of the watchbird could alert Gultaz. He hesitated, the whistle in his mouth. The wings suddenly whirred directly over him. Startled, he blew hard. He heard netSiing except a hiss of air, but his lips itingled. Somewhere the bird shiied and beat its wings violently. He heard its distracted cries fading down-river. He'd been too impulsive! He pusihed farther from the stream, as hastily as he dared. He must circle and approach the foreigner's camp below, at least having the breeze right. If Gultaz came looking, he would find his trail. But the shaman would move cautiously, and there might be time... He blundered into a game trail, crouched, then bounded down it in short careful leaps. He could hear nothing except his own pulse and his faint footfalls, smell nothing but the unguent. The trail wound on and on. Now and then small creatures leaped away 'before him. Finally the trail dipped toward the river. He paused. Had he come far enough? He thought so. He left the trail and angled back upstream. There was a sound from his left. He cowered, listening, Then, even above the stink of the unguent, he smelled glond. His muscles bunched, but he didn't move. No vroal could outrun a glond, even the old one that haunted this region. And the nearest tree trunk was twenty feet away. If the unguent didn't work... the rustling came closer. Then the movement stopped, and he heard the glond snarl in frustrated anger. The repellent did work! But a shrill bird-call sounded from upstream. Gultaz, returning! Laitpur leaped away, heedless of everything but flight. He had no desire to face Gultaz here. He heard the glond start after him. He reached the bank and dove, remembering in mid#eap his new uneasiness about the water, struck it, swam desperateily underwater, downstream and across. Would Gultaz have river creatures patrolling? A shaman who could lure a glond to guard his camp... One of the watohbirds was circling over him when he surfaced to gasp for air. A quick glance back showed no sign of Gultaz yet. He was out of effective dart or arrow range now, so he swam on the surface; reached the south bank; clambered up. Some missile plunged into the breg near him, 'but he didn't pause. He shoved through at full tilt to drier and less fern-choked ground; galloped hard downriver. Shame was rising within him. His attempt 'had been one unplanned succession of impulses and pani'cs. He could just as well have gotten downwind in the first place and scouted more carefully, not drowning his sense of smell with the IF repellent until he needed it. Deeoon would be disgusted. He stepped to catch his breath and assess things. His yokepack was still dripping water, which annoyed him. His rations must be soaked. He peered eastward, as if that would help him visualize the sea. How much chpange would there be now? Deeoon had warned him that, if he had no luck against Gultaz, it might already be dangerous to go downriver. Still, there was no sign of anything strange yet. And this might be the last chance to look and to get new samples. He started on, seeking out a game trail he remembered, taking up a steady lope that devoured the miles. He hoped the old glond was still on the other side of the river. The escaping swim had washed off all the repellent. H e stood at the base of the great rock, staring at the river mouth. Thick dikes were mounded up of sand, seaweed, shells, bones -- whole skeletons, here and there, of mighty sea creatures. They pushed the river into a narrow channel, where it ran swift and turbulent. Surf -- more violent than he'd ever seen -- periodically beat back even that current. As the surf bore in, it seemed to focus itself up the narrow channel, and each wave deposited some layer of solid matter. The dikes were closing together before his eyes! He forced himself on down to fill his sample vials, then walked up the river as far as the rock. Already the water level was two or three feet above normal. A pool was forming. Standing there, he must have heard or smelled something, for suddenly he was aware of danger. He whirled. The old glond crouched a few yards away, its amber eyes murderous with a hate beyond mere predation. Another instant, and it would have leaped. There was just one chance, and Latpur seized it. He spun and dashed for the water, plunged in, swam upstream toward a near-vertical part of the rock. He heard the glond splashing behind him. He reached the cliff, searched desperately for paw-holds, hauled himself from the water and went up like some insect. He didn't dare look back, though every instinct screamed. Only when he heard the glond lunge, scrabble at the rock and fall back roaring in frustration did he stop, clinging while strength returned. Then he went on up to a haOf-ledge where he could squirm around and look down. The beast was swimming in circles, head lifted to stare at him. Why did it hate him so? It must have crossed the river and trailed him. Maybe the repellent had enraged it. Maybe the brute mind saw it as a deliberate insult. He was safe, for the time. Eventually, he'd have to climb up and over and go down the south side of the rock or the west side. But he'd wait until the glond had left the neighborhood -- unless he felt like relying on the repellent again, which he didn't, now. After a while the beast gave up, swam upriver, waded ashore and stalked haughtily away toward the wood. Latpur climbed to a shallow cave he rememlbered, where he could wait comfortably for a while. He uni:apped rations and munched them, soaked as they were, while he stared down at the pool. B ecause the patterns of the current were new to him, he didn't notice for a while that they were unnatural. When he did, it was abruptly. Between one moment and the next, he recognized, not ripples, but wake-pattems! Myriads of small things were moving just beneath the surface! And, as he watched, he saw the purpose of the activity. Bit by bit, a second dam was growing, to make another pool upstream! None of it was above the surface yet, but already the water humped over it. Alerted now, he saw tiny creatures, unrecognizable from here, crawl from the water, rip with mandibles or claws at the nearest twigs and tug them to the water to add to the dam. Pebbles, too. Already the river's margin had a scoured look. The shadows were lengthening. Dreading to stay here, he sniffed at the air. He smelled no danger. He hesitated, got out the glond repellent and smeared some on himself, then climbed to where the brow of the rock was less steep and started working his way around to westward. He realized the sun would be directly in his eyes. He halted unhappily, scanning the brush below. The shadowed edge of Tenabur Wood loomed black and ominous a short trot inland. It was lucky he paused where he did, for he suddenly saw Gultaz emeirge from the wood. The shali man, not wearing his ornate belt, did wear a murderous scowl as he cantered recklessly through the brush. Latpur clung motionless, glad his own pelt and accoutrements weren't too different in color from the rock. He hoped Gultaz would go on by to the sea, but the interloper stopped just a little past him. From makeshift felt-pouches, the shaman vexedly drew various gadgets: a small metal hinged thing like a nutcracker; a folded square of gauze; a beaker; a bundle of rods and a ring that assembled to form a small tripod. The square of gauze, fitted to a loop of wire, became a dip net. With everything assembled Gultaz paused for caution, sniffing the air and staring around. Fortunately he was looking toward Latpur's shadowed side, and didn't see him. Then the shaman waded into the pool, showing no nervousness, and began to dip. Each time he lifted the net, he plucked out a few wriggling creatures, thrust them into a pouch and dumped back whatever else the net held. Comprehension struck Latpur. Something had happened to the shaman's unguents, and he was hastily preparing a new stock! Could it be that the pool creatures would yield an unguent to ward off Sea's foragers? A kind of password? Latpur strained his eyes to see which kind of creature was chosen. He found himself grinning. So much for the shaman's magic! Gultaz trotted to his equipment, put one of the creatures -- already dead, Latpur hoped with a shudder -- into the metal press and squeezed its juice into the beaker. He squeezIF ed enough to fill the beaker, then set it on the tripod and scouted aibout for (twigs and built a small fire imder the beaker. He began to pace, mutteringimpatiently and looking around. Latpur suddenly realized the shaman's watchbirds were missing. So something had befallen them, tool rre beaker began to boil audibly. A Gultaz stopped to stare down at k. Presently the smell reached Ijatpur -- iodine, moisk, fishiness and something like the glond repellent but less caustic. The liquid boiled down until it was dark and viscous. Gultaz grunted in satisfaction and, with a small metal spoon, began transferring it to a vial. Finally, aifiter (rinsing the beaker, the foreigner repacked his gear, paused to scan the now dusky brushland and loped away toward Tenabur Wood. Latpur stayed where he was for ten minutes, grinning to himself. Then he climbed down. He took a food-wrapping from his yokepack, punched some holes in it and began to dip into the pool. When he had enough of the little crustaceans, he hunted about for dry twigs, and carried them and the water creatures back up to the shallow cave. There he improvised a tripod of wire, put a sample vial on it for a beaker and, using his heaviest vial and the handle of his knife, pulped the dead creaitures and drained (the juice off them. Then he built a fire. Soon the liquid boiled, its In the darkness, dim bird-shapes wheeled, attracted by the fire. He could hear ground beasts too, beyond the river, no doubt staring up at him. Once -- somewhere in the wood -- he heard the glond roar. But now he needn't travel at night. He could stay here safely and go home tomorrow! When the unguent was boiled down, he rubbed some on himself and put the rest in a. vial. Then he had his meager supper. He huddled for a while, staring into the darkness and pondering. What had happened to Gultaz to bring him hustling here for new unguent? And why did the aliens take the Spawning so casually? Did they know more about it thaa they admitted? Were they, possibly, even allied with Sea? The farmers who'd reported their coming had vowed they were gods, or devils. Eventually, as a healthy vroal should, he slept. V T he sound that jolted him awake in the chill pre-dawn was an odd, choked, despairing snarl. He lay trembling for a moment, limbs bimched xmdcr him. Then, remembering where he was, he crept to the lip of the cave and stared down. His still-blurry eyes fixed on a strange swaying phosphorescoace like a little chain of stars. Then he made out the great form of the glond, crouched at the water's edge, writhing and shaking its head. The dim lights encircled its throat! Gradually, the beast's writhing stopped. It uttered another sound, a jhalf-owl. Then, panting, it sprang into a trot up-river. Latpur became aware of other points of light, darting about singly over the pool. The pond, too, was ashimmcr with phosphorescence. He flattened himself to the cave floor, frightened but fascinated. A winged shape flapped by in the darkness -- a sea bird, its neck ringed with the dim lights. Now he saw other birds similarly adorned. One swooped and dropped a dim writhing shape the size of Latpur's foreleg. The creature, with a mew of terror, plopped into the pool and lights converged toward it. So Sea already was commandeering foragers! But what were the weird necklaces? Were, they the points of light linked together? The lore said nothing of that. He sniffed, making sure his unguent still smelled. The pond roiled with activity now. Small shrieks filled the darkness as living prey was hauled from all directions by the sea birds, to be dumped into the water or on the ground nearby. In the lightening dawn he could sec the second dam and the wide pool above it. Fish -- or something -- leaped the cascade, while stubby-winged sea things soared up in remarkable arcs. The banks were ascrawl with unfamiliar things. Still farther upstream, he could see a third dam building. He crouched, watching, as the night dragged on. he sun poked up beyond Tenabur Wood. Now he must start upland. He'd left his gruo without any word too long already. Guilt washed over him. Would Deeoon already be sealed m his oave? Or would he still be waiting? Latpur decided to lope to the liviDg quarters as fast as he could. He put on his yokepack and began working around the rock to the west again. Something moved upstream. He clung to the lock and watched the glond plod nearer, diragging a carcass half as large as itself. The phosphorescent necklace still ringed its neck, but was dim in the early light. It left the ikill by the water, then lifted its big head to stare up the rock. Latpur's spine tingled at the hate in that gesture. But the beast's possessors evidently urged it, for it jerked, snarled, wheeled and trotted away again toward Tenabur Wood. Now! While the beast was occupied! Latpur scrambled down and raced for the brush. Birds swooped toward him, but evidently smelled the unguent and turned away. He'd just reached the bru when a loud bang from beachward brought him to a startled halt. He spun and saw the aliens' flying-cart diving at the river. A small object left it as it pulled out of the dive. Where the object struck, debris and flame explod awesomely. A moment later, the second bang reached Latpur. He crouched, staring. Sea birds scattered in haste. The alien craft, high up again, circled as if watching. He heard the roar of water pouring through the breach in the dam. Suddenly the alien craft was stricken. It wobbled, and its nose dropped, and it went into a plummet It pulled itself out and veered toward IF the south, but now it could only gjide steeply, down toward the beach. If the aliens climhed out when it landed...  He was running, around the south side of the rock to the (beach, down that, watching the craft slide down. It levelled a moment before it hit, plowed a furrow in the beach, tilted up and to one side. Sea birds were iralling toward it. He saw a door pen and a helmeted head emerge. Dazedly, the alien captain climbed out. Latpur, nearing, shouted. The birds checked and turned to assess him. He rose to his hind legs and fuimbled at his pack as he ran. He got the vial of unguent out. Meecham, clad like the captain in a coverall and helmet of clear material, hauled himself out. Latpur shouted again, galloped hard, skidded to a halt. "Here!" he gasped,' "Smear some of this -- " T he two aliens -- and a third just emerging -- stared at him without comprehension. He tugged the cover off the vial, dipped in a claw and unceremoniously wiped it on Meecham's neck-covering. Meecham put up a bewildered hand, and Latpur knocked it out of the way. "Fool! Will you never learn?" Meecham blinked inside his helmet, spoke rapidly to the others and reached for the vial. When the others were smeared, he said to Latpur, 'Thanks. These suits might protect us -- one saved the first man those devil#irds attacked. But who knows? Whatever hellish thing's at work did something to the electrical system of our flying-cart!" The birds were circling uncertainly now, with distracted cries. Perhaps, Latpur thought, whatever controlled them was in some way limited by their dim brains. an oath, the captain raised a weapon toward them. Latpur knocked it aside. "No! Pretend to be possessed!" Meecham translated. The captain and the third alien stared, then looked up at the birds. The captain grunted and put the weapon away. He started to say something to Meecham. The third alien uttered an odd cry and pointed out to sea, Latpur turned with the others. An incredible mountain of water was growing there. Still fax out, it swept toward the land, peaking higher and higher, coming swiftly with the odd billowing motion of a wave. Latpur crouched to run; but then he saw that the awful thing was headed far to the south, beyond a promontory. The captain gasped something that might mean, "The ship!" Meecham choked out, "Laurie!" and broke into a run. Latpur passed him in two bounds, slowed, saw that Meecham and the others were painfully slow runners, and shot on. His eyes darted from the monstrous wave to the brushland on the other side, saw no danger and swiveled back again. The wave seemed to dominate the world now. Its sound was a nimble, then a roar. The sand trembled beneath his feet. He reached the promontory and stopped, knowing that to go farther was suicide. He stared at the ship dwarfed by the dark monstrosity rushing upon it. IF His mind cried out to it, "LeapI Fly!" But he remembered Meeaham saying that that took time. The avalanche crashed down awfully. VI T o his amazement, the ship was not crushed. It tumbled end over end, bobbed to the surface like some cockleshell in surf and was swept far up beyond the beach onto rising brushland. The vast swirl deposited it there on its side and raged about it for a moment. Then, like some immense elastic creature, the water spread, foaming and roaring, its edge coming almost as far as Latpur. It seemed to tremble there a moment, then began to withdraw, sweeping with it uprooted trees and brush, scouring away great stretches of soil, leaving a huge raw wound upon the land. It drained and diminished to a last whisper and became just a huge wave rushing out to sea, leaving a long stretch of beach buried under mud and littered with debris. The smell of the fresh mud dominated everything, but over it was something sharper. Ozone. Latpur shook off his awe, glanced back without seeing Meecham and galloped across the mud toward the ship. The closed hatch was far up the curve of the prone hull. He seized rungs and hauled himself up, worked the handle and let himself in. He clung listening for a moment. Faintly, he heard a childish voice sobbing. He started to move, cheoked himself, got out the vial of unguent and smeared some outside the hatch, then pulled himself up the shaft that, with the ship uprigjit would be a corridor. He turned a corner and found an alien crewman, head bloody, limbs bent at unnatural angles. He shuddered and hurried on until he reached what seemed to be living quarteirs, with furniture welded onto floors that were now walls. The child had stopped crying as she heard him coming. She was huddled in the comer of a small topsy-turvy room, staring at him. There was a small smear of blood on one cheek, and she was scratched and bruised. Her doll lay a few feet from her. He spoke to her uncertainly. "Laurie!" She crouched, unmoving. He climbed in, took a step. She cringed, with a little whimper. If only he knew a few words of their language... He moved closer, picked up her doll and held it out to her. She stared at him wildly for a minute, then slowly reached out for the doll and clutched it to her. He pointed at her, then at himself, then toward the crazily placed door. "Daddy!" He knew that word, at least. "Daddy!" F or a while he thought she wasn't going to respond. Then, so abruptly he started, she scrambled to her feet and ran past him toward the door. But that was now in the middle of a "wall," out of her reach. She turned and stared at him, her face puckering. He went to her slowly, reached up a forepaw and grasped the doorjamb, holding out the other paw to her. She whimpered, staring at the paw, then, with an odd expression, grasped it. Her fear seemed to vanish in an instant, and she began to sob. He picked her up very gently and let her cling to his neck while he climbed through the door. Before they left the ship he made a ritual of smearing unguent on himself, then smeared some on her. Her nose wrinkled but she didn't protest. He stared around for a moment. Was he wise in taking her from the ship? Yes; Sea might launch another wave or make some other assault. He remembered the glond repellent, got that out and put some of that on her too. Meecham still wasn't in sight. He clambered down and ran upright across the mud; got to the littered beach and went dodging through the debris. A sea bird dove and circled close, head tilting, then wheeled away. He reached clear sand, started along it -- and suddenly stopped, midriff contracting into a painful knot. Gultaz was darting from the brush to bar the way. The shaman's face was contorted with hate. In one forepaw he held a knife; in the other, a short jabbing-spear. The child whimpered. Gultaz snarled, T'll kill you, meddling fool, and take the en cub. They'll pay high ransom!" Latpur let out his breath and drew another. He put the child down, met her eyes and pointed back at the ship. She whined and didn't move. He gestured violently. "Gol" At least she might understand the tone. She shook her head and clung to his leg. Gultaz sneered and came forward. Latpur thrust the child away roughly, grabbed for his own knife and stooped swiftly for a handful of sand. Even without the spear, Gultaz would outmatch him badly, but if he could just delay... He advanced a step. A glance showed him the child running toward an uprooted tree. Gultaz made a rush. Latpur darted aside, ready to throw the sand. The shaman lunged. Latpur -- trying to stay between Gultaz and the child -- threw the sand. But Gultaz was ready. He merely blinked his eyes at the right instant, them opened them and threw the spear. Off balance, Latpur twisted desperately, but the point gouged hk right leg. He dove for the spear, but before he could grasp it the shaman was upon him. Latpur grabbed for the big foreigner's wrist, making an unskillful thrust with his own knife. Gultaz grabbed his wrist. For a moment they strained face to face. As Latpur expected, Gultaz was very strong, and the shaman's knife moved inexorably closer. Latpur then threw his weight to one side, pulled them down, managed to roll on top but could not stay there. They struggled in the surf. If he could only hold out... They rolled over twice more -- and, glancing desperately up-beach, Latpur saw, not Meecham, but a great orange-tan form crouched at the edge of the brush! IF I t was only a split-secon# glimpse before the shaman's big body blocked the view. But in that instant he could read the predator's emotions. The beast's hate showed in the gaping snarl. The haunted eyes, the beaten sag of the great head, told of the agony of being possessed and driven. Latpur's mind flashed. If he could get himself and Gultaz deeper into the surf, so the repellent washed off -- He rolled, trying to keep the ham's face away from the beast so there'd be no warning. The foreigner's knife moved an inch closer. Latpur dropped his own knife, grasped the other's wrist with both forepaws, squirmed and twisted, rolling them into the surf. He might die, but Gultaz would then be too busy to get the child. Gultaz laughed cruelly and put both hands upon the hilt of his knife. It moved close to Latpur's throat. Latpur heard the quick thud of big paws. Then the glond's snarl, very close. Gultaz went stiff for an instant, then twisted away and leaped up with a shout of terror. Latpur -- face almost buried -- saw from the corner of one eye the huge beast's leap, heard the impact. He shut his eyes and lay perfectly still, hearing the screams and the brief thrashing, then a sound like a tree limb being snapped. For a minute there was only the glond's panting. Then he heard the big paws padding toward him. He concentrated every ounce of his will on lying limp. He held his breath and hoped the surf would mask the pounding of his blood. He felt the warmth of the beast's neamess. He could feel the big head lowering (toward him. The thing sniffed at him, and he could feel the hot breath. Then the glond snarled softly and padded away. Presently he hwd it dragging the shaman's corpse. When he thought it was safe, he open his eyes and turned his head very slowly. He saw Mecchaei and the captain in the distance, trotting awkwardly and exhaustedly down the beach, weapons in hand. Nearer, the glond was dragging its burden into the brush. The aliens, he ued, were such poor runners that they needed their flying-carts zmi sudei. He got up, lungs working hard, aad loped toward the child. At that moment she burst kite sight and ran struggling through the sand, screaming, "Daddy! Daddy!" vn L ate in the day, his leg bandaged with alien medicine, he sat near the pool that was already backed up above Sea's repaired dam, watching Deeoon boil down a new batch of unguent. He was getting used to the tiny things that shot through the lur around them, paying no attention. He picked up the string of dead ones Deeoon had showed him. "Chainbugs? You'll think of a more iapoeing name than that, I'm sure!" The individuals were about the sine of his smallest claw cylindrical, but concave on one end, convex on the other. So this was Sea! He tugged again at the chain. It was no longer flexible, but it wouldnH brisk. He leaked at the ooqpses of Guitaz and the old glond, thirty yards away. Both showed an ugly lumpiness as if maiggots or something were at work. He shuddered, feeling not only repugnance but sympathy for the oLd glond. "Rude masters, to seize a creature and compel it to ferage, then kill it as well." Deeoon glanced up. "Perhaps it was too rebellious to please them." Latpur asked, "You saw them kill it?" Deeoon made an affirmative gesture. "That very chain, part of which you're holding. It twisted itsdf like a tourniquet, garroting the glond as easily as you'd slice a tuber. Then the life seemed to go out of the chain. My guess is the essence of the bugs entered the corpse to reproduce -- or to beget something else. Im sure there's something of electricity in their natures, as well as something else I don't understand." Latpur shivered and tossed the chain away. "You haven't told me how you were able to steal the shaman's belt!" "Oh," Deeoon shrugged, removing the beaker from the fire. "I must apologize about that affair. I deliberately used you as live bait. I progged you'd fail, but that you'd be easily spry enough to escape. In any case, I was close enough to hear and smell what was transpiring. Guitaz swam the river to make sure which way you'd gone, but before crossing he took off his belt and hung it on a tree limib, no doubt relying on his gaudy birds to guard it. I rendered them useless and simply took the belt. Don't be angry, apprentice. I progged very strongly youd be able to look after yourself, and I was right." Latpur turned his face away, half annoyed, half embarrassed. "I was vy luc. Do you think Sea will attack the aliens again?' D eeoon waved a paw. "Who am I, to prog so soon the actions of an unseen entity, or composite intelligence, or whatever Sea is? My tentative guess is that Sea is only concerned with the Spawning. If the alieids don't try to right their ship until that's over and make no more hostile moves, Sea may ignore them. The one I talked to, who was left guarding the fallen sky-cart, seemed properly chastened." "So were the others," Latpur said. Deeoon began transferring the sticky unguent to a vial. "I certainly hope the aliens aren't destroyed. I prog they'll teach us much of their science now, out of gratitude to you. And with their help, we'll learn a great deal about Sea and how he or it is able to do the things we're seeing. When the time comes to write my pamphlets..." He beamed at Latpur. "This region will be alive again in a year or two. And when the farmers are all back, they'll be a rebuked and grateful bunch of clients. We'll enjoy a sounder status, you and I." Latpur found himself grinning. The talk of gratitude reminded him of the alien child's belated thanks -- a curtsey and a grave little speech, translated by Meecham: "Thank you very much, Mr. Latpur, for taking IF IF  Short Story V J# #I instantly sat up. The couch sat up with him, jackknifing to form his pilot's seat. J-#I noted that the seat was in combat position, raised high enough to give him an unobstructed vision on all sides of the planetflier. "We're in orbit around our objective," said Charles. "Breakout and attack in seven minutes. Eat. Eliminate." J-#I obediently withdrew the red-winking tube from the panel befoire him and put it between his lips. Warm, mealy liquid fed into his mouth, and he swallowed at a regular rate. When the nourishment tube stopped, he removed it from his mouth and let it slide back into the panel. The peristalsis stimulators began, and he asked, "Is there news of my parents?" "Personal questions are always answered freely," said Charles, "but only when military necessities have been completed. Your briefing for this mission takes precedence." A screen lit up on the flier's control panel, showing a #-# contour map of the planet they were orbiting. J-#I sighed and turned his attention to the screen. "The planet Rhinstruk," said Charles. "Oxygen #, nitrogen # plus inert gases. Full spacewear will be required for the highaltitude attack pattern in effect on this mission." The image on the screen zoomed in, selected one continent out of three he had seen revolving below, continued zooming down to near planet level. Charles said, "Note that this is a totally enemy planet. Should I be shot down and you somehow survive, there will be no refuge. If that happens, destroy yourself." "The target?" the pilot asked. "The city you see below. It isn't fully automated, but its defenses will be formidable anyway." On tbe screen J-#I saw a towered city rising from a broad plain. The city was circular, and as the image sharpened with proximity he could make out individual streets, parkways... and beam emplacements. The screen threw light-circles on seven of these in all. "We will have nine fliers," said Charles. "These beams will attempt to defend, but our mission will be siniple destruction of the entire city, which presents a much larger target than any one of our fliers. We will lose between three and five of us, but we'll succeed. Attack pattern RO-#I will be in effect; you'll take contrd of me at # feet. End of briefing." The pilot stretched in his chair, i#exed muscles in his aims and hands. "How long was I asleep?" he asked, "Eight months, seventeen days plus," said Charles. That longl A quarter-oredit for sleep time that would give him over two months on his term of service, leaving him... less dioa a year. Earth standard. J-#I felt his heart speed up momentarily, before Chaiies's nerve-implants tected and corrected it. The pilot had been in service for nearly seven sufcjective yeays. Adding objective sleep time, it came out to over nineteen years. The sleep periods, during Hardin Drive travel between star systems, ate up his service term easily for him... but then he lememhered, as he always did, that the objective time was still the same, that his parents, whoever and whereever they were, would be getting older at objective time rate on some planet. N ineteen years. They should still be alive, he thought. He remembered them from his childhood, on a planet where colors had been real rather than dyed or light-tinted, where winds had blown fresh and night had fallen with the regular revolution of the planet. He had had a name there not a binary number -- Henry, or Hendrick, or Henried; he couldn't quite remember. When the Control machines had come for him he had been ten years old, old enough to know his own name, but they had erased it. They had had to clear his memory for the masses of minute data he'd need for service, so the machines had stored his personal memories in neat patterns of microenergy, waiting for his release. Not all of them, though. The specific things, yes: his name, the name of his planet, its exact location, the thousand-and-one details that madiines recognize as data. But not remembered sights, smells, tastes: flowerbursts of color amid green vegetation, tiie cold spray of rainlbawed water as he stood beside a waterfall, the warmth of an animal held in the arms. He remembered what it was like to be Henry, or Hendrick or Henried, even though he couldn't remember the exact name of the person he had been. And he remembered what his IF parcDts were like, though he had no memory at all of their names. His father: hig and rangy, with bony hands and an awkward walk and a deep, distant voice, like thunder and rain on the other side of a mountain. His mother: soft and quiet, a quizzical face framed by dark hair, somehow smiling even when she was angry, os if she wasn't quite sure how to put together a stem expression. By now they must be... fifty years old? Sixty? Or even a hundred and sixty, he thought. He couldn't know; he had to trust what the machines told him, what Charies said. And they could be lying about the time he spent in sleep. But he had to assume they weren't. "Breakout and attack in one minute," Charles said. Ihe voice startled him momentarily, but then he reached for his pressure helmet, sealed it in place wkh automatic movements, machinetrained muscle patterns. He heard the helmet's intercom click on. "What about my parents?" he asked. "You have time to tell me before we break out. At least tell me if they're still alive." "Breakout and attack in thirty seconds and counting," said Charles. "Twenty-eight, twenty-seven, twenty-six..." J# #, human pilot of a planetflier named Charles, shook his head in resignation and listened to the count, bracing himself for the coming shock of acceleration. I t hit him, as always, with more force than he had remembered. crushing him back into the chair as the planetflier rocketed out of the starship's hold along with its cit unit-mates. Charles had opaqued' the pilot's bubble to prevent blinding him with sudden light, but the machine cleared it steadily as it drove downward toward the plu. et's surface, and soon the man could make out the other Aim around him. He recognized the flying formation, remembered the cu:cular attack pattern they'd be using -- a devastating ring of fliers equipped with pyrobombs. Charles was right. They'd lose some fliers, but the city would be destroyed. He wondered about the dty, the enemy. Was this another pacation mission, another planet feeling strong in its isolation front the rest of GalFcd's far-flung werlds and trying to break away from ceor tral regulation? J-#I had been, on dozens of such missions. But their attacks then hadn't been dcstruct-pattcms against whole cities, so this must be a different kind of problem. Maybe the city was really a military complex... even a stronghold of the Khallash. If th really existed. Wen men had first made eontact with an alien race a century and a half before, they had laet with total enmity, almost mindlessly implacable hatred. War had flared immediately -- a defensive war on the part of the huMaas, who hadn't been prepared for it. And in order to organize the looseknit Galactic Federation efficiently, they'd computerized the central commands    and then the middle echelons... and finally, a little over a century ago, the whole of GalFed had been given to the machines to defend. Or so he had been taught. There were rumors, of course, that there were no Khallash any longer, that they'd been destroyed or driven off long ago... or that they'd never existed in the first place, that the machines had invented them as an excuse for their own control of GalFed. J#I didn't know. He'd never met the aliens in battle, but that proved nothing, considering the vastness of space and the many internal problems the machines had to cope with. Yet perhaps he would meet them now... in the city below. "# feet," said Charles. "Attach yur muscle contacts." The pilot quickly drew firom the walls of the compartment a network of small wires, one after the other, and touched each to magnetized terminals on his arms, hands, legs, shoulders. As he did so he felt the growing sensation of airflight: he was becoming one with the flier, a single unit of machine and man, Charles fed the sensory impressions into his nervous system through his regular nerve-implants, and as the muscle contacts were attached he could fed the flier's rockets, gyros, pyrolaunohers all coming under his control, responding instantly to movements of his body's muscles. This was the part that he liked, that almost made his service term worth it. As the last contact snapped into place, he became the planetf. His name was Charles, and he was a whole being once more. Air rushed past him, mottled fields tMted far below, he felt the strength of duralloy skin and the thrust of rockets; and he was not just a fleshand-blood human wombed in his pilot's compartment, but a weapon of war swooping down for a kill. The machines themselves dont ap predate thiSy he thought. Charles and the rest have no emotions, no pleasures. But a human does .  . be thats why they need us -- be cause we can love combat, so were better at it than them. But he knew that wasn't true, only an emotional conceit. Human battle pilots were needed because their nervous systems were more efficient than any microminiaturized computer of the same size and mass; it was as simple as that. And human pilots were expendable where costly medianization wouldn't be. "Control is full now," he said; but Charles didn't answer. CharlesI didn't exist now. Only the computer aboard the orbiting starship remained to monitor the planetflier below. I n a moment the starship's voice came to him through Charles receptors: "All human units are ready. Attack pattern RO-#I will now begin.' The dty was below him, looking just as it bad on the contour map: wide streets, buildings thrusting upl towards him, patches of green that must have been parks... or camouflage, he warned himself. The city was the enemy. He banked into a spiral and knifIP ed down through the planet's cold air. The other fliers fdl into fonnation behind him, and as the starship cut in the intercommunications channels he heard the voices of other pilots: "Beautiful big target -- we can't miss it. Anybody Know if they're Khallash down there?" "Only the machines would know that, and if they'd wanted to tell us, they'd have included it in the briefing." "It looks like a human city to me. Must be another rebel planet." "Maybe that's what the Khallash want us to think." "It doesn't matter who they are," J-#I said. "They're enemy; they're our mission. Complete enough missions and we go home. Stop talking and start the attack; we're in range," As he spoke he lined his sights dead-center on the city and fired three pyrobombs in quick succession. He peeled off and slipped back into the flight circle as another flier banked into firing trajectory. Three more bombs flared out and downward, and the second flier rejoined the pattern. Below, J-lOOlOll's bonlbs hit. He saw the flashes, one, two, three quick bursts, and a moment later red flames showed where the bombs had hit. A bit off-center from where he had aimed, but dose enough. He could correct for it on the next pass. More bombs burst below; more fires leapt and spread. The fliers darted in, loosed their bombs and dodged away. They were in a complete ring around the city now. the pattern fully established It was all going according to plan. Then the beams from the city began to fire. The beams were almost invisible at a distance, just li;tning-quick lances of destructive energy cutting into the sky. Not that it was important to see them -- the fliers couldn't veer off to evade them in time, wouldn't even be' able to react before a beam struck. But the planetfliers were small, and they stayed high. Any beam hits would be as much luck as skill. They rained fire and death on the city for an hour, each flier banking inward just long enough to get off three or four bombs, then veering out and up before he got too close. At the hour's end the city below was dotted by fires, and the fires were spreading steadily. One of the planetfliers had been hit; it had burst with an energy-release that buffeted J#I with its shock-wave, sending him momentarily off course. But he had quickly righted himself, re-entered the pattern and returned to the aittack. As the destruction continued, he felt more and more the oneness, the wholeness of machine and man. Charles the other-thing was gone, merged into his own being, and now he was the machine, the beautiful complex mass of metals and sensors, relays and engines and weaponry. He was a destruction-machine, a deiath-flier, a superefficient killer. It was like coming out of the darkness of some prison, being freed to burst out with all his pent-i hatreds and frustrations and destroy, destroy... It (was the closest thing he had to being human again, to being... what was the name he had back on that planet where he'd been borm? He couildn't remember now; there was no room for even an echo of that naime in his mind. He was Charles. He was a war-machine destroying a city -- that and only that. Flight and power occupied his whole being, and the screaming release of hatred and fear within him was so intense that it was love. The attack patlem heoame, somehow, a ritual of courlshtp, the pyrobombs and destrudlon and fire below a kind of levenaaking whose insensitivity gripped him more and more fiercely as the attack continued. It was a red hell, but it was the only kind of real life he had known since the machines had taken him. When the battle was over, when the city was a flaming circle of red and even the beams had stopped firing from below, he was exhausted both physically and emotionally. He was le to note dimly, with some back part of his brain or perhaps through one of Charles' machine synapse-patterns, that they had lost three of the fliers. But that didn't interest him; nothing did. When something clicked in him and Charles' voice said, "Remove your musde contacts now," he did so dully, uncaring. And he became J-#I again. L ater, with the planetfliers back in the hold of the starship and awaiting the central computer's analysis of the mission's success, he remembered the battle like something in a dream. It was a red, violent dream, a nightmare; and it was worse than that, because it had been real. He roused himself, licked dry lips, said, "You have time now, Charles, to tell me about my parents. Are they alive?" Charles said, "Your parents do not exist now. They've just been destroyed." There was a moment of incomprehension, then a dull shock hit J-#I in the stomach. But it was almost as if he had been expecting to hear this -- and Charles controlled his reaction instantly through the nerve-implants. "Then that was no Khallash city," he said. "No," said Charles. "It was a human city, a rebel city." The pilot searched vaguely through the fog of his memories of home, trying to remember anything about a city such as he'd destroyed today. But he could grasp nothing like that; his memories were all of some smaller town, and of mountains, not the open fields that had surrounded this city. "My parents moved to the city after I was taken away," he saii "Is that right?" "We have no way of knowing about that," said Charles. "Who your parents were, on what planet they lived -- all this information has been destroyed in the city on Rhinstruk. It was the archives center of the Galactic Federation, storing all the IF memory-data of our service humans. Useless information, since none of it will ever be used again -- and potentially hannful, because the humans assigned to guard it were engaged in a plot to broadcast the data through official machine communi? cations channels to the original holders of the memories. So it became necessary to destroy the city." "You destroyed an entire city... just for that?" "It was necessary. Humans perform up to minimum efficiency standards only when they're unhampered by prorvioe memories; this is why all your memory-data was transferred from your mind when you were inducted. For a while it was expedient to keep the records on file, to be returned as humans terminated their service, but that time is past. It has always been a waste of training and manpower to release humans from service, and now we have great enough control in the Federation that it's no longer necessary. Therefore we're able to complete a naajor step toward totally efficient orgaeization." J-lMlOll imagined fleetmgly that he could feel the machine's nerveimplants moving within him to control some emotion that threatened to rise. Anger? Fear? Grief? He couldn't be sure just what was appropriate to this situation; all he actually felt was a dun, uncomprdiending curiosity. "But my parents... you said they were destroyed." "TTioy have he. There is no way of knowing where or who they were. They've become totally negligible factors, along with the rest of your pre-service existence. When we control all data in your mind, we then have proper control of the mind itself." He remembered dark trees and a cushion of damp green leaves beneath them, where he had fallen asleep one endless afternoon. He heard the earthquake of his father's laughter once When he had drunk far too much, remembered how like a stranger his mother had seemed for weeks after she'd cut here hair short, tasted smoked meat and felt the heat of an open hearth-fire... The nerve-implants moved like ghosts inside him... "The central computer's analysis is now complete," Charies announced. "The city on Rhinstruk is totally destroyed; our mission was successful. So there's no more need for you to be awake; deactivation will now begin." Immediately, Pilot J-#I felt his consciousness ebbing away. He said, more to himself than to Charles, "You can't erase the past like that. The mission was... unsuccessful." He felt a yawn coming, tried to fight it, couldn't. "Their names weren't... the important..." Then he couldn't talk any more; but there was no need for it. He drifted into sleep remembering the freedom of flight when he was Charles, the beauty and strength of destroying, of rage channeled throu: pyrobombs... of release. For one last flickering moment he felt a stab of anger begin to rise, but then Charles' implants pushed it back down inside. He slept. by Robert E. Margroff and Andrew J. Offptt The gladiators of the sfarways had no hope but to no future but unending combat -- and death! nearKdoudless sky like stealthy fingers. They touched the structure which more imaginative planetary Boaoxichairmen said resemhled a huge upturned eye. The silaplas lens collect the rays, focused them onto the artificial turf of the stadium -- brightly, hotly, with an intensity calculated to rect in attractive ays from the weak, yellow sun flashes from the armor and bronze . Solitos squeezed through the skins of the athletes. The directed The G he stands full ten feet tall; He lies with virgins every Fall. That's why, my friends, on worlds like these There are so many sons of Gs! -- Solitonese folksong suDlight was just one of the special effects that made Solitos a favored world among industrialists and other nobles. Nowhere else in the humanowned universe could they find such a magnificent staging for the contests that settled all serious disputes without resort to the barbaric warfare of the past. Out in the stadium Vam cursed the sunlight that baked and sweated him while the aristocratic onlookers sat in cool comfort. His lightly bronzed face dripped with perspiration as he tried desperately to get his back against the wall while continuinig to block his opponents. There were three of them, Bluechips, each with nervewhip and electroprod. Because the Greenback jock, Vam, was the hare this round, his weapons were the standard ones of bodylength insul-shield and firesword. Despite seeming unfairness, the postings on the bet scoreboard proclaimed him and the trio evenly matched. It was the first time Vam had ever been triple-teamed. The man on his right feinted with his electroprod, its gleaming snout aglow with the energy that could slow an enemy just enough to allow the whips to start cutting him apart. Varn crouched low behind his silaplas-backed shield and swept his firesword leftward in a whooshing circle to stop the left flankman's advance. At once the middle man moved in. In a three-pronged attack, Varn knew, the man on the left always tried for a crippling action. It was the middle man who bad to be watched; he was the one who often dropped the crowd-pleasing tactics and went for the quick profit. Vam's counteraction, based as much on intuition as on Demunth's theory, brought his flaming blade in contact with the whistling lash on his left. He ignored the opportunity to cut the nonflammable whip; when it had slapped several times around his blade, he yanked. The middle attacker's rod sparked off Varn's shield edge. His quick lowering, then up-jerking of the sharpened shield edge sheered off the prod's deadly head, turning the weapon into an unpowered quarterstaff with forlornly protruding wires. The athlete ignored it and stabbed across himself into the throat of the stumbling Bluechip hound on his left The man went down gurgling. Vam straightened, whipping his sword back into line. But now one opponent was dying, another was partially disarmed and the third -- obviously the weakest of the team -- was unprepared to close. Suddenly the hare had become the beast of prey. A cheer burst from the stands. Varn thrilled to the applause without worrying over what industrial and govemmenital disputes he was settling; most of the onlookers, he sensed, felt the same way. There could be only a few who cared. Financier Curth of Brinap was obviously one who did. The fattest of fat aristrocrats leaned forward from his movable box, staring intensely. Your planet. Financier, Varn wondered, or your corp or your bet? From the edge of his eye he IF watched a loge rise on its slide supports land saw a hand lift from the controls to make the ancient thumbto-fingea: circle. Prince Hannanook of Corporate Aleria mtist feel more approving than his fat neighbor. The third Bluechip jock was as inexperienced as Yarn had hoped. With a quick motion that was barely in time, Yam lopped the glowing head off the rod and continued the sweep of his sword to cut the other man's iash. Sacred Capital! Was he unable to err today? He expelled a great chestful of air in a shout and leaped at his nearly unarmed foes, ready to cut them into smoking drogmeat. He stopped again amid a diminishing number of duels, as the first day of what was officially called the Solitos Tournament of Synthetic Dispute Settlement came to an end. Again he raised his face to the crowd of powerful humans who had crossed airless space in their luxurious ships to place their bets and settle their arguments in this humane and civilized fashion. He could make out the simpering faces of sycophants and the flashing jewels on the necks and arms of sec'ys. Slowly he moved his eyes over the boxes until he came to the lump that was Curth of the Brinap Financery. Surrounded by red-faced, wildeyed afficionadoes, the lawmaker was strangely pale as he listened to something said to him by his neighbor Hannanook, third son of the Boardchairman of Boardchairmen, Titus DC. Yarn felt himself swelling with pride. Surely they were talking of him! Surely Curth had backed the Bluechip jocks while Hannanook had favored the Greenback hare. Now Curth was staring straight at him, spinning the interesting bauble on its platinum chain around his neck. As Yarn gazed at it, the sunlight turned it into a thing of flame and blood and beauty... X Yarn jerked his head. It was he the prince was shouting at! Hannanook stood tall and regal in his box, one long arm outstretched. The action was so unusual on the part of an offworlder that Yarn hardly recognized it for what it was: a warning. When he did move it was almost too late. Cursing himself for being so foolish as to be distracted, he hurled himself forward, twisting. The flamesword-blow from the rear sparked from the mail of his moving shoulder and swished so close to his face he felt it singe his cheek. He swung to parry a second blow with his own weapon and barely turned a blue-flaming dagger on his shield. The confident grin vanished from the face of the roving freekiller as Yam pushed with all his strength against powerful musculature and suddenly slipped in the blood of the man he had just dispatched. Yam saw the smile return in a flash to the freekiller's face as he raised his sword and brought it swishing down like a fiery ax. Yarn rolled and shoved his shield upward. The other jock realized too late that he'd been tricked; Yarn had fallen deliberately. Now he screamed and fell back, failing to sear even a hand with his sword, forgeuing his dagger, doubling over as Yarn's shield-edge slashed beneath his 'armor. Yarn rolled again and hacked a shaky leg. He was on his feet before the freekiller hit the turf. Yarn planted one foot on the fellow's swordaiun and gazed down at him. "Mercy," the freekiller's lips whispered, and Yarn hesitated. The cryomeds could practically rebuild an athlete if he was not too far gone. There were stories of champions who had grown back knocked-out teeth, severed limbs and bumed-off skin. Who could say that this Bluechip was not so valuable? The buzzer sounded. Yarn looked around at the lessening activity as sweating survivors realized that this time the signal was real and not imagined. The first long day of the tourney had ended. "Kill the incoietent tubespawn!" someone roared, and Yam knew without looking that it was Financier Curth, enraged at the freekiller's failure. The athlete ignored the yell. He stepped back, his sword hanging loose and unflamed at the end of his arm. He watched as the referees approached his writhing opponent. The first dropped to one knee and pointed a foot-long rod at the man's agonized face. Yam heard the click as the trigger depressed and invisible radiation fried the athlete's brains. He could not help shuddering, could not help reflecting that it could as easily be he the second referee was hooking with his long pole and dragging off across the stadium, meat for the drogs. V arn plodded slowly after the other jocks, frowning, wondering at Prince Hannanook's interest. Referees and cryomeds scurried past, dodging him. "Yarn! Wait, Yarn!" He turned. It was Demunth, his broad face below his freeman's nosering split by his frog's mouth where it emerged from his high cellar above the black, many-buttoned suit. Demunth motioned. It was not customary for a coach to show up on the turf at day's end, but Demunth was a most unusual coach. His story was well known, a source of hope for every jock: Demunth had himselfbeen a Consumer, lowest of the lowly, and had acquired his practical skill with a firesword under this very dome. No one, not even a Businessman, dared cross Demunth or mention his origin, although the coach bragged of it in every tavern on Solitos. Yarn walked to him. "Listen, you Commie-begotten imitation swordsman! You looked pretty good out there until you started eyebaJling some bosomy sec'y in the stands and nearly let that freekiller cut you into drogmeat! Lucky for you his arm was as feeble as your brain!" Yam recognized the compliment in Demunth's acrimony. He never told an athlete he'd done well, not directly. A coach's job was to make an athlete a fighting machine capable of burning down a tough foe despite the inevitable bums and shocks and minor cuts he received, not to swell his head and dull his mind with pride by complimenting IF him. But his mea knew how ta read his wards, and Yam 'knew Demunth was not really berating him. "You'reright, Coach. I am stupid. But I'm alivcl" "Yah, and a good thing for the poor drogs. You'll be tough chewing for those skinny critters, you bag of muscle! And pity the poor beast who tries to eat the contents of your skull, he'll starve to death!" Demunth turned and paced Yarn toward the exit, his black trousers contrasting with Yarn's hairless legs in their buskins and leather kneeguards. "All right now, what the hell happened?" "I -- I'm not sure, Coach. I thought the event was about over and everyone was tired. The day was ending, I thought." "By Marx's dusty beard, you hollewheaded drogbait! You dare teU me you thought and then repeat the blasiemy? How many times have I told you that the only thinking you're to do is with your legs and arms? I've a good mind to skip your stimulants and pain depressants tomorrow and feed you cereal instead of good drogsteakl You thought! Yarn, I was watching. But tell me again; what happened?" V arn stiffened his face against his grin. Demunth had 'been watching him. So he'd thought. Curth watched him. Hannanook. And now Demunth. I am a hero today! Then he tried to tell his trainer about the fat financier and the prince and the financier's fl'ashing gem. Abruptly Demunth stopped dead. "Stalenin!" he cursed. "That fattailed son of a berragoon tried to hypnotize one of my boys? And right in the arena! Ahrr! I'll have his skuU for a practice-ball! I thought that was it!" Suddenly he seemed to remember the athlete beside him, staring with mouth agape. Demunth skewered Yarn with the black eyes which were a part of what had earned him the nickname he ecretiy loved: Demon. He heaved' a great breath and spoke again in his normal voice, a steel file drawn over concrete block. "Listen, you impossible fool, I'm sorry I ever pointed out those blasted offworlders to you. A swordsman's with gods and his mind with ice cream. Listen, you twice-dropped idiot I Those fellows are poison. Poison! You're not to look at them, d'you understand? Think of the stories you've heard -- offworldeis may look like us and act like us, but any Consumer can see they're more! How else d'you explain to me why cviery mortail on Solitos lives in dafly awe and, yes, terror of the offworlders? I'd have been deaded long ago with one of their zaptubes if I weren't so valuable. They live for these games; they say they influence the destinies of planets and stars, and the man hasn't been born whos better at the Tourneys than I!" Yarn walked by his side, hardly feeling the coach's impossible grip on his bicep, listening and thinking as the old stories of men who had achieved the powers of gods came again into his brain. Men whose wealth could be measured in stars, who had machines and unhuman braim to diink how they could hold on to that wealth and continue constantly adding to it, who had lesser men and lesser beings to do everything for them -- including die. These were the men whose lives were worth more than entire worlds of athletes. These were the men who came annually to Solitoe. "Itd be great to be a god or the son of a gy wouldn't it Vam? Ride around in the big ships, travel between the stars, bed any female you fancied? Wouldn't it? Yes, look at him nod his empty head! Son of a g! Forget it, you idiot. There's only one goal you've got to have in life -- that's staying alive! Fail, and you'll be just like that Bluechip killer you dropped...  drogfood!" Demunth jerked his head. 'Hcre, you thickskulled Commiel The truck's waiting. Scuttle!" V am scuttled. Through the exitgate, past loud-mouthed spectascant three feet above the pavement. The other athletes were all on their rows of seats awaiting their ride to Demunth's territory, and the truck's pilot was there wearing his zaptube. Vam raised his eyes to the distant gold-and-platinum towers of the Offworld Hotel, wondering what luxuriom quarters he would now retire to had he been bom a sag-gutted Businessman or eletced a Financier on Brinap. By the way," Demunth continued, climhing into the truck without seeming to notice the sweat and blood of his charges and the oncesharp crease in his trousm, "I noticed you had sense enough to remember what I've said when those three nervewhip and guthook boys tried to climb you. Special cut of drog tonight... and a little talk. Subject: alertness." Yarn nodded, pleased; aaother compliment, no matter how tangled in criticism it was, and the special cut of meat was a reward. So was the "talk." When a promintng athlete demonstrated his weak point Demunth practiced with hini personally, calling it a "talk." "Oh," Demunth added as the truck started moving, "and Doc'll have an extra needle for you tomorrow. You'll not have to worry about that porkfaced financier's medallion again!" Yarn nodded in silence. Despite his explosion, then, Demunth would not mention the illegal trick against his boy. This bore out the truth of the Qffworlder's inviolability; if Demunth wouldn't attack them, no one would. Yam thought about it all the way to his dorm. When the truck lifted over the wall and into the campus, he hardly saw the rectangular building with its many little cells opening into a central court. What he saw beneath his own eyelids was far more colorful. I n his own small cell Yam turned to his cot, waiting for a masseur. Offworlders! And Prince Hannanook in particular -- why had that great man intervened in the life of a mere athlete? Why would a g or the son IF of a gf as Demunth termed them, care about such as he? Because the prince had part of an industry or a planet staked upon him? Probably, and yet -- Varn stared at the ceiling and thought about it. When the masseur came and attempted small talk on how Yarn's fight had gone, Varn ignored him. The rubbing and thumping and kneading made him think only of the way godlings had lesser men attending to their every need. Godlings did not condescend to notice the hands that served them. By the time his food came Yam felt he had about solved the weighty problem of Offworlders. His conclusion was one he was not likely to share -- and yet one that he must share eventually. As he watched the loinclothed serving man load his table with a generous fighting-ration of drogflesh, fresh weeds and red slorp in an athlete-sized drinking vessel, he saw clearly what he had never dared see before. He tore at the meat, noting it was prime rib this time, and fatless. The coach thought he'd be champion! Surely he did! No trainer could know what made one athlete a champ and another drogmeat to serve the drogs to serve the better athletes; but he had twice spoken words of compliment, and now he would train Varn personally. Varn grinned. Perhaps Demunth would teach him the trick that only Demunth was reputed to have mastered, the trick of switching hands on shield and firesword in midfight. Still grinning, he raised the vessel to wash down the last bite and saw Demunth gazing at him from across the table with a strange expression on his broad face. Demunth's face appeared to have softened everywhere except for his brass nosering. "You godling it, Varn?" The trainer's voice was rough as usual, yet managed to hold a note of understanding. It was as though the coach had been standing there, seeing him, partly seeing himself asa very young and very promising athlete. Vam read the envy and respect for his youth in those few words, and then, unable to stop himself, he rushed out with it: "Offworlders... they do couch a Consumer now and again, don't they? I know that freemen do. I've often heard freewomen shout invitations. I've often thought my sire might be a free citizen who sells you red slorp or swords, but not till today have I thought I might be -- " "Blast you! You never had a father, you beanbrain! You haven't got that fat financier and that spindly-armed prince out of your head, have you?" But the scathing diatribe was an invitation to Varn to say more. "Coach, today a Boardchairman of Boardchairmen's son warned me. Why would he do that, unless he thinks me more important than others? Why, Coach, unless... "Doesn't it occur to you that he probably stood to profit? Somebody's got to stay alive to meet Probin, and... ump. Look here, d'you think you'd fight better if you were the same blood as that Offworlder?" Varn was elated to realize that Demunth saw him as the jock to take Bluechip Probin. But his dation did not stop him from answering excitedly: "Yah, Coach, yahl" Demunth rounded the table, and his heavy hand came down on Vein's shoulder with a jar that forced him to stiffen his knees. "Well, then, believe it, athlete! Believe you're Prince Hokeyhokey's hidden brother. He got all the brains and riches and power. You got all the muscle and gristle and skill." Vam believed. H e believed through that evening's practice when he almost singed Demunth's nose and heated his nosring. He believed, as he went to sleep bone-tired. He believed, as next day the medic injected him with the usual pain-depressant and stimulant and added another shot , while Demunth stood by and taiked about how he must never look directly at anything in the hands of a spectator; and Vam felt an instant of disorientation, as if he'd just awaked, and saw the others were forming up for the ceremonial march into the stadium. He believed, as he fought that afternoon in the all fireswords freefor-all. He believed, the following day when he fought the big Darkhorse krats and the giant wild houggs and other Darkhorse beasts that may or may not have had Earth ancestry He believed, and he fought so well he gained more and more attention from the stands as his betting odds continued to accelerate; some cheers were for his opponents, but more and more the uncommitted cheers were for the believing gladiator, Cut off from his Greenback teammates in a Greenback-versusBluechip rumble and battling six Bluechips at once, he heard fiancier Curth cheer the Bluechips; and he believed and fought as a god must fight, knowing he must possess godblood. When a huge Darkhorse krat with teethlike daggers bestrode him, pinning his right arm and coming for his throat, then did Varn hear the senator's delighted "Kill, Krat! Eat, Krat!" And the counter-cheers of "Go Athlete," from the prince and the senator's own sec'y; then did Varn find a courage and strength that was surely immortal. He grabbed the monster krat's slavering tongue with his own teeth and bit and chewed with all the strength of his jaws while he drew his firedagger with his left hand and plunged it deep and flaming into the animal until its guts sizzled. Varn believed, and he survived, the second and third days of the tournament. That evening as he rested after the fights and felt truly godlike, he looked from his athlete's cell and saw a liveried Consumer in the act of handing Demunth a message. The coach's broad face went slack as he read. Then it tightened, darkened so that the hosering seemed to brighten by contrast. "NO! By Lenin and Marx's very vitals, NO!" And he struck the Consumer a blow that stretched him at his feet. Demunth glanced in Varn's direction and strode away. Eventually the Consumer staggered up and limped off. Later stiU, Varn watched as freemen in the same orange-andblack costume came into the walled IF dorm. With the rods of death in their (belts they spoke to Demunth. Viam saw their glances as they talked and knew they spoke of him. He recognized their colors: the box of Financier Curth of Brinap had sported them daily. Did the financier want to buy him, perhaps, in midtourney? Transfer him to the Greenbacks so that he and Probin would never have to clash? He watched from the back of his cell until the men left. Then Demunth came to his cell. The coach's face was grim as winter sunset, and his black eyes did not look directly at the athlete. # # A sleep, Yarn?" I "Nah, Coach." "Yarn, there are powerful men who hold as much power over me as I hold over my boys. D'you understand, Yam?" "Yah, Coach." "Well then, by Marx you understand more than II 'Yah, Coach!'" He swore for at least a full minute. Then: "When such a powerful man wishes something from me, I haven't the power to refuse. Not even I, Demunth! But even when his wish is evil, Yarn, and illegal as well, I am powerless. Do you -- " "I understand. Coach." Yarn waited. "Tomorrow you will fight in the preliminary bouts to decide who will fight in the final battle of champions. Freemen with zaprods will watch. Forty pair of Bluechips and forty of Greenbacks will battle backto-back to the deaths of all save ten. Yarn, at your back you should have one of the best fireswordsmen I possess." Demunth stopped abruptly and touched his forehead to the grilled door. Yarn focused on his trainer's nosering. "Yarn, your partner will be a trainee. A good one, but far from the best and unblooded and unbroke to fire. If you're to survive you'll have to kill your opponent very fast and then face your partner's opponent. If your partner is killed first your chances of surviving him are about the same as your being Boardchairman. "Then... then I'll fight for both, Demunth." Demunth's head came up; athletes did not call him by name. But he said nothing. His position had changed, and both knew it. He nodded once, then walked away. Yarn stared up at the ceiling. Financier Curth of Brinap wanted him dead. Why? Could it be resentment -- could Curth resent the existence of such as Yarn with Off world blood? Perhaps some of these godlings rejoiced in destroying such...  their kind? Was it letter, if one were a god, to watch a god die than to watch a man? He fell asleep thinking about it, because no matter how tiued the athletes were at day's end, their supper-wine contained a slow and shortlived anesthetic. B ut the anesthetic did not control Yarn's dreams, and they were not good. Reality was little better. The shaking youngster at his back next day barely knew which end of the firesword to grip. The scores of orangeand-black athletes who had been overwhelming Yarn in his dream until he awoke sweating...  they were not necessary. With such a partner as he had drawn not even a godling -- hut that he must rememherl He was a godlingl Son of a gy yesl He who had survived the great krats and the nervewhips and electrotridents of three simultaneous attackers, and the murderous freefor-all. He must remember. "Use your shield," Yam said over his shoulder. "Turn his blows; don't bother to try to attafck him. I'll soon turn to help you." But his partner was shaking so that Yarn wondered if he heard. At the first clash of fireswords he knew his opponent was a professional. His tightset mouth was merely one more seamed wound in his face. He had survived a dozen tourneys. He had been judged Champion, paraded around the stadium seven times while the spectators cheered and screamed in hysteria; and for the next several months Scarface had been rewarded with his pick of women from the breeding pens. He was Probin. Yarn parried his first flaming blow and his second and his third, and then from behind him he heard the unmistakable sigh that signaled a hot sword in the smoking vitals of his partner. Yarn's life expectancy was reduced to seconds. He didn't wait. He threw himself wildly aside and blocked Probin with his seld and scrambled desperately to avoid the thirsty sizzling sword behind him. He had one hope: that the Bluechip who had slain Yarn's partner had a partner very much in trouble. From the stands Finaodef Ouith# and swung a tremendous chop at Ids opponent. Scarface was too experienced to die in such a way, but the swing saved Yam's life; the firesword from behind which had been aimed at his neck betwixt helmet and cuirass sparked off his armored back. Then Probin had to half turn to face the Greenback who'd just downed his partner, and Yam followed his example and caught his opponent wide open. He jerked his sword free and looked about desperately for a new partner. He spotted a lone Greenback and made for him, noting that the athlete's left cheek was leaking blood and he had a patch of mail missing and an ugly burn over his right nipple. CTeammate!" Yarn yelled, bareX ly hearing his own voice amid the shouts and screams of other athletes and the crash and clang of steel on steel and the roar from the stands. Between them moved a pair of Greenbacks battling a single Bluechip. Yarn struck down the Bluechip and again shouted "Teammatel" and charged around the Greenbacks to his new partner. Yam's arm was numb and his blade sizzled with the smoking blood of six athletes when the gong rang to end the combat. He jerked back his firesword to hold it rigid at his right shoulder. He glanced around, keeping his eyes up to see the living. IE and not the dead and dying. He was astonished; he was one of four surviving Greenbaciks. Probin was among the remaining Bluechips. They stared at each other. Then they were raising their flaming swords to the audience as the man who'd been at Yarn's back for over an hour said, "Well paired!" in Yarn's ear. Yarn felt star-scraping tall. He heard his name, among others. They knew him by name, now! Somehow he was unable to take his eyes off Financier Curth; somehow his legs carried him across the bloodsoaked turf to gaze up at the fat creature's box. He jeered me. Yarn thought. He booed. He forced Demunth to try to have me killed. Yarn did not shout. A shout would have been a ripple in the mighty ocean of applause and screaming. Yarn waited. He was a godling; Curth was deigning to ignore him! But he could not forever -- and did not. The financier from Brinap looked down at the blooded and scorched athlete eight meters below his box. And slowly and very coolly Yarn raised his right hand to his nose and wriggled his fingers at the financier. Ill C urth came upright like a starship from atmosphere. He pointed, his mouth moving. Beside him one of his retainers stood and yanked a zaptube from his broad belt. As he raised it, the financier's sec'y squealed and slapped at his arm. Curth cuffed her in the face, and Yarn remembered that it was she who had chTeered him. She dropped back into her seat, hand to her cheek, and the freeman raised the tube again. Yarn had not seen Prince Hannanook give his order, but he must have; one of his purple-and-gold retainers appeared beside Curth's box. His zaptube was aimed at the man who was preparing to loose invisible radiation at Yarn. Curth's man sat down. Curth turned and his mouth moved as the prince's did, the voices lost in the noise from the crowd. Then the financier dropped back into his seat with a jiggling of his chins. Ignoring his shaking knees. Yarn raised his red-streaked firesword nearly to his lips, his . eyes on the imperial prince. Hannanopk smiled and nodded his head. Yarn turned and left the stadium, keeping himself from breaking into a run with a tremendous effort. Demimth reproached him -- if such a gentle word could be used to describe anything the retainer said. "There's no hope for you now, idiot!" "Was there before. Coach? He's determined to destroy me." The perpetual scowl deepened on the broad, ugly face. "There's no accounting for the actions of mighty. Yarn. If you were a freeman -- " But Yam knew he was infinitely more. He was about to tell the coach as much when an air-raft landed in the campus and several freemen stepped off and approached. Yarn recognized their bumble-bee livery. Demunth saw them and walked away. They called to him. Yarn watched them exchange words, watched Demunth shake his head and heard his voice rise. The Brinapi financier's freemen gesticulated and evenutally accompanied Demunth to his quarters. The coach's shoulders seemed to sag. His ibrows drawn down in worried thought, Yarn had just stretched out on his bunk when he looked up at his square of barred dusk and found it filled with Demunth's bulk. He got quickly to his feet as the outside bar was lifted. Demunth bore a goblet. "Wine, Yarn... special ration because of tomorrow's championship fight I" Yam had never received wine before, only the vitamin-loaded sweetish imitation: red slorp. He took the shiny metal flagon from Demunth's mysteriously shaky hand and started to raise it eagerly. T hen his eyes saw the shadows well behind Demunth. Curth's freemen! Yarn looked in Demunth's eyes. Then he nodded his head, stepped back into his dormitory cell and raised the cup. He made appreciative gurgling and smacking sounds as he carefully allowed the wine to run down his chin and onto his smock. He knew Demunth saw, was sure the others did not. "Thank you, Coach!" He handed the cup hack to his trainer. "Sleep well, athlete," Demunth said and went away with the men. A little later the flying platform arose into the air and slid away. Demunth returned, and his ugly face gazed at Yam's a few moments before he cleared his throat. "You showed wisdom. Yarn. But what good will rejecting his potion do you? You will ie tomorrow, just as surely. He will find a way." "Die? I want to win the championship for you. Do you doubt I can?" "'Win! Why you addle -- all right. Yarn, I'll open my shield to you. No, until I learned what an enemy you have, I really thought you could win. Today you somehow held off Probin and eluded the man at your back and accounted for eight, I think. But... no. Yarn. Not now. The Solitonese hasn't been born who can stand up to me. But an Offworld financier is another matter. I believe that you can win... but that you will die because the financier wills it." "You said before that if I were a freeman things would be different. Yet I can become one only by winning, by fighting out of here, as you did. Coach. This I will do. And I will win tomorrow... for you and for me." Yam's mind had never worked so furiously in his life. "Practice with me. Coach, that I may be the best on the field tomororw." Behind the square roof of the athletic quarters a yellow moon, fat and round as Curth's belly, was rising. Its pale fingers of light touched Demunth's face. The face was set, determined, afire with the hatred the trainer felt for the mighty financier. The frog's mouth was held taut against Demunth's teeth. Then: "By the Ultimate Banker's fat paunch, I will! Get your gear. Yarn. Come along!" Yarn nerved himself, swallowing hard, as the bar was dropped. What IF he had decided upon only a godling could do... a godling who would have to wield a hetter sword than the fabled Demunth. He went with the coach to the field house and equipped himself. Did Demunth have any idea, he wondered, that this time there was more than mere coachand-player exercising involved? No, he thought as he faced the firesword and shield of Demunth! No, the coach did not know. For who could guess that such an impossible dream could fill the whole being of a lowborn athlete? Who could imagine that a man born a Consumer could find such determination, could think the unthinkable? Poor Demunth, Yarn thought. He does not really believe I have god-blood! T hen Demunth moved so fast that Yarn was almost caught unready. The man who had trained a thousand athletes pressed his opponent hard and struck for the throat with the extinguished flat of his sword. Yarn blocked just in time, knowing that had the firesword been switched on he'd have 'been scorched. Had he been an instant slower, he'd have been decapitated. "Little slow, athlete. Faster now -- let's see how fast you can block." Yarn's shield rang without sparking to a shower of swordblows. It was all he could do to stop them. Never in competition had he faced such an onslaught from a single source. The coach was yielding up to his anger at the financier; he'd sweat it off hacking at Yarn. And Yarn? He felt tears close behind his eyes. Could he do it? Would he be able to do it? Could he possibly bring himself to kill diis man who was the nearest thing to a father he knew? Oh no! Stop me, he thought. Kill me, Demunth! Don't let me kill you! Don't make me! I am so new at being a god! When Demunth stopped, he was not even winded; "Now you try. Yarn." He stepped back and grinned his ugly grin as Yam tried. He drove in to smash past Demunth's guard. As always, he failed. Could this be the arm of a god-man, this arm which could not steer a sword past a mortal's shield? He wanted to kill him quickly -- he had to, if he was to do it at all. But Demunth's sword and shield changed places with a praticed motion that imitated the lightning in its speed, and he attacked. Yarn was forced to retreat. Never had he seen anyone else who could unlock his hands from his weapons, slip them one across the other and continue fighting without missing a stroke. There was no other undefeated coach. Demimth stood alone. Yam's thumb was near the powerswitch of his pommel. F or the first time since he had decided what he must be. Yarn had doubts. And then his golden throne toppled. He could not do it! He could not defeat the undefeated and quite possibly undefeatable coach. "In three years, Yarn -- maybe two -- you'll be as good as I! But now... I haven't time to teach you better attack methods." Demunth was panting a little as he spoke. Was there sadness in ins voice? Did he merely regret his inahility to put the final edge on the finely-honed blade that was Vam, or...? So he would not have to think, Vam tried to lightning-switch without flaming his blade. He nearly dropped his shield. "Better not try that tomorrow, Boy," Demunth said. "Your opponent would've got past your guard. Watch. I'll show you again." Sword flamed and winked with the shield in the moonlight as they changed hands. Again Yarn tried to imitate. If anything he was even clumsier this time. "Athlete, that won't do! Watch me again -- " "Coach! Look.' " The shadow swept over the sand, a big dark rectangle. Both men looked up as the black shadow glided over the roof of the jockdorm. "Get out of here, Yarn. Run, damnit!" Yarn hesitated. Demunth was staring at the flying raft. His back was to his best athlete. There would neyer be a better opportunity for Yarn to do what he intended: strike down the coach, take his clothes and, most important of all, his brass nosering which proclaimed him a freeman. Then... attain the impossible. Go to Financier Curth. Prove himself a god-man. Yarn's firesword was in his hand; Demunth's neck was unprotected... Yarn turned and fled as the coach ordered. To his left was the dorm, to his right the high wall surrounding the practice field. It was closer. There was shadow, although not a great amount, since the moon was at the opposite end of the yard. Yam raced to the wall, flattened himself against it. He wondered if his armor gleamed. He waited. The raft landed, settling gently to the ground with a little hissing sound as the dust and sand swirled beneath it. There were three of them : black and orange. All stepped off the raft; all approached Demunth witii hands never far from their belts. This time Vam heard them clearly. "Take us to the cell of the athlete called Yam. We want to be sure he's sleeping well," one of them said, and another laughed. The snoring from the cubicles nearly drowned out their voices. "He's all right. Why don't you fellows go on down to the Red Krat? Ask for Vivara. She'll fix you up. You needn't worry about that athlete anymore." The Brinapi shook hi head. "Orders. We're to check. Then, friend Demunth, we'll go and study this Vivara of yours. Come on, take us in." Demunth's voice was hard, ugly as his face. "Don't call me friend, office boy. I rule a thousand athletes, provide a civilized way to settle important arguments. You lick the soft white toes of a grafting -- " T he man didn't give Demunth time to finish. He struck him across the face with a gesture dripping disdain. Demunth's sword hung loose in his hand, and Yarn knew that the reaction that flamed it was completely automatic; the short firesword swung up and plunged with an ugly hiss into the Offworlder's stomach. The man staggered back into his fellows, staring down at the shaft of glowing steel and his fast-cooking intestines. Then, as the man started to fall, Demunth yanked the sword fr. Then Demunth dropped. Soundlessly, without raising his sword again. Varn swung his wide eyes to see one of the remaining two Brinapi freemen shove his zapstick back into his belt, kneel beside his friend, then look up at the third man and shake his head. The man got up, and the two of them walked toward the dorm. Behind them, two bodies lay on the sand beside an extinguished firesword. Varn crossed the space from wall to Demunth without a sound, a dark shadow cutting a lighter one. His examination was brief and simple -- the coach was dead. So was the other man; his blood had almost stopped flowing from the cauterized wound the sword had made. Varn started to rise, then glanced back at the dead Brinapi. He bent and pulled his zaptube from his belt. Then he followed the other two, carrying the rod gingerly; he had never before held one of the short metal cylinders with its easily depressed trigger similar to the one on his swordhilt. His firesword was in its sheath, his shield still on his arm. He had time only to leap aside into the darkness beside the gate as the two freemen and a dormitory guard boiled out. "Jn that case he's got to be out here still," the guard said. He said nothing else. Vam's action was almost reflex; he brought the tube up and pushed the little thumbstud and swung the rod back and forth. Ten feet away, the guard and one of the freemen dropped like the corpses they undoubtedly were. The third man whirled, glanced down at them, peered at the sharows enveloping Varn. Then he turned and fled. Varn aimed the zapstick and thumbed it again. He swung it, spraying death. The organge and black tights kept running. Varn watched, mystified. How was it that the tube killed some, allowed others to live? Suddenly he realized he was a dead man; the Brinapi would sail away... and return with help. Varn dropped the useless rod. He had one chance, and he was out of practice; a man did not often use this trick in the stadium. As the freeman's feet thudded onto the raft, Varn grasped his shield by the edge, curling his fingers. He took a deep breath, held it, turned half around and, exerting all the strength in his legs and arms, sent the shield sailing across the practice field. Like a toy saucer-ship or an oversize discus, it cut through the air. The freeman looked up just as it reached him. It struck him full in the chest, driving him back off the raft. The shield clanged on the platform and rolled off onto the turf. Varn ran after it. T he man was alive. He was bleeding from the chest, but not seriously injured; and Varn was unable to understand his immobility IF IV until he realized the fellow had hit his head as he fell. He hesitated a moment, then pulled the zaptuibe from the Brinapi's belt and ran back to the two he had downed with a similar one. The radiation-guns left no external marks. There was nothing about the uniform Yarn pulled on to indicate it had been stripped from a corpse. He brushed dirt off himself and shrugged; the tunic was tight. The dead freeman had been built like a man. Yarn wasn't a man; he was an athlete. He returned to the raft and Financier Curth's unconscious office boy. Then he waited, thinking, thankful that there were no athlete faces watching him through the barred doors. Surely no Consumer could have originated the audacious action he planned! His momentary doubt was gone; he was more certain than ever of his godhead. The freeman moaned, and his eyes flickered open. They looked impassively at the levelled tube, then swung to the firesword and widened. Yarn nodded. It was true, somehow this man was unaffected by the zapsticks. Then he noticed something more, this Brinapi was not wearing a freeman's nosering. He pondered this, wondering how freemen could prove they were not Consumers on the world the office boy had come from. Yarn raised the firesword to the other's throat. He waited for the office boy's fear to settle. Then Yarn began telling him, clearly and carefully, exactly what orders this very special fireswordsman had for him. T he two highest-ranking guests at the Solitonese Tournament of Synthetic Dispute Settlement, Prince Hannanook and Financier Curth, were of course lodged in suites at the top of the finest hotel on the planet -- sprawling collections of well lighted and lushly furnished rooms on the three-hundred-and-first floor. The shaking freeman with the firesword at his back made a sloppy landing on the roof of the hotel. "How do we get to the financier's apartment?" Yarn asked. He poked with his firesword to facilitate the man's reply. "Though that door," the lackey said, pointing; and Yarn nodded and leaned on the sword without flaming it. As though he had merely stepped on a potentially dangerous insect. Yarn withdrew his sword out of the Brinapi's back and wiped the blade on his colorful jacket before sheathing it. He went to inspect the little house the freeman had indicated. Yes, it contained a door, and another door, and another door and steps. Yarn made certain both doors remained unsecured and went over the edge of the roof. The balcony he had seen as they approached the hotel lay just below. The height and the faintly twinkling lights did not bother him; the lights were tiny and too far below for him to see the ground. A well padded lounge on the balcony cushioned his short drop, and he was forced to catch at the loungechair's back as he bounced. He sank down in the darkness, realizing that W while the drapes were pulled across the double doors leading into the financier's suite, the doors themselves were open. The voices inside were very clear to the new orange-andblack-encased athlete on the balcony. " -- you're done, Financier! Why don't you admit it? I haven't the need for ostentation you have. My men conducted their inquiries without livery, in taverns and on the streets. I already knew that an investigation had been called in the Financery to check over your records and either end the rumors of your misappropriation of Brinapi funds or impeach you. Now I've found out about a few of your debts. I say 'few' because I assume there are others." "My dear prince, you can't possibly --  "Please don't use your Boardroom oratory on me, Curth," the original voice cut in, and Yarn recognized it as Prince Hannanook's. "Shall I tell you how much you have bet on a Bluechip named Probin? On the Bluechips as a team? Apparently you stand to make the money to repay all bets and do some buying if the Bluechips win tomorrow. And to replace the money you've stolen from the people of Brinap if that scarredface Probin wins. Eh?" "Be smart, Prince, everyone wants to do this sort of thing. Why else do people still insist on symbolic wars? We happened to be in a position where we can settle official differences and add to our own fortunes on the side, so why shouldn't we? A little grease here, a refined bit of pressure there, and... really, where's the harm? The show will be just as good tomorrow, the results just as bloody, just as conclusive and war-preventing. The only difference will be that you and I -- and it can be you as well as I -- can be sure of a profit. The matter of official territorial lines hardly matters to anyone. Who cares what star-corp claims what particular stars within its jurisdiction? You don't; I don't. It's all too theoretical. Those things change every standard galactic year. As long as civilization exists and there's no war..." # # T#inancier, you sound as thoughT this entire bloody institution existed solely for the amusement of the upper classes. You know that isn't so. These stadium fights are necessary. What would you do when there's an unresolved dispute and the warhawks are circling each other and preparing to fight to the last drop of the next world's blood -- go back to exploding suns and death-seeding planets? Wars aren't practical anymore. The symbolic battles and wars have worked for nearly a thousand s.g. years. Would you really want to break the rules and risk destroying that?" "My dear prince, there hasn't been a symbolic war that was an honest substitute for human fighting in centuries. Wars can't happen anymore. People have become too civilized. They don't care that much." "I know the institution must not exist for your purpose, Financier. If it were up to me there'd be no training of killers. If it were up to me Man and his governments wouldn't be so irrational as to think that no IF violence on any scale was a necessary final arbitrator. These once purely athletic contests were degraded by your kind, Financier. Now you're making them worse! Whose bright idea was it to introduce the darkhorse beasts last year -- yours?" The prince's voice firmed. "Financier, it's been obvious to anyone with eyes and a mind that that Yarn athlete was the one to watch. So you tried to eliminate him, to help Probin. Yes, I know about it. First the hypnomedal. Then pressure on the coach. Then... what? We'll see. If Probin's as doped up tomorrow as I expect him to be, I'll stop the fight and have him disqualified. And Yarn? What did you send him tonight? Drugs? Poison? Death?" "Majesty, I am sorry you are so nosy. The firesword Rocdn is holding at your back will spit and cook your liver as neatly as an athlete's. But I'd prefer not... I'd much rather you had an accident and fell off the balcony. It's a long way down." Yarn rose to his feet. The financier's voice was full of confidence, and the prince's gasp was proof that there was a firesword at Hannanook's back. "You wouldn't dare, Curth!" "Prince, there's an expression so old we've forgotten its origin: You're whistling in the dark. Come along over to the balcony, won't you?" T here was silence as Yarn found the place where the drapes joined, and he inserted the end of the zaptube. Hannanook's voice said, "No, Financier, I won't. You'll have a hard time proving an accident if I've a sword bum between my shoulderblades!" Yam peered through the widened gap between the drapes. Spawled out in a bubblechair, wearing a carelessly open robe. Financier Curth gazed, smiling, up at Prince Hannanook. Behind the prince, a well honed blade levelled at his back, stood a man in orange tunic and black tights. Behind the financier's chair was his sec'y, the blonde who'd cheered Yarn, her flower-petal mouth open wide as her blue eyes. Yarn made very certain the tube he held was pointed at the man called Rocaln, that none of its stream of death would touch the prince or the sec'y. A zaprod was noiseless; if it did not kill the man he would be forced to make noise as he leaped at him with his firesword. He depressed the trigger. Rocaln stiffened and then went completely lax and toppled over sideways. He crashed across a table, containing the leavings of the financier's sumptuous dinner, with a terrible noise. Curth shot to his feet with a speed Yarn would not have thought possible for one so obese. Hannahook swung around, saw the dead man, then looked at the doors as Yarn entered. "By Earth, athlete! Haven't you any sense at all? Thumbing your nose at lardbucket was bad enough... but coming here disguised as one of his office boys!" Hannanook was grinning as he spoke. "Tsk! Frightful! Unheard of! I am so shocked I'll not even ask what became of that uniform's owner." He turned back to Curth. "Sit down, Curth. You're finished. The financier's collapsing into his c!'uiir indicated his complete agreement, and Hannanook smiled. But Yarn remembered his own tactic of falling only in order to get beneath his opponent's armor. No, he'd not assume Curth was finished till the final buzzer. "Uh... Yarn," the prince said, "you can point that thing at Financier Curth, but I do hope you won't fry reer ahead of him... as a prisoner, Td say." Yarn swallowed. Suddenly he remembered where he was, who he was, who these two men were. He found that no words would come to his lips. "Athlete Yarn, what possessed you to thumb your nose at this -- at this charming old gentleman? What could possibly have possessed you to come here tonight?" The prince sat in a chair facing the financier, after picking up the fallen Rocaln's firesword. Both Hannanook and Curth ignored the body as if it did not exist. arn bit his lip. "I -- I -- " "Take your time. Yarn. I'm most anxious to hear your answer," Hannanook said. And, without taking his eyes off the athlete, "Sit still, Curth. You'd better sit down, too, girl, before you collapse. Just don't do anything silly. I admit I'm a little soft, but this man suckled on a lyhon and teethed on a swordblade." "Man!" Financier Curth snorted, and Hannanook turned to look at him emotionlessly. "Getting your pose back, Financier? Good for you... I'd hate to have to find ten or twelve men to carry you out of here if you fainted. But just sit quietly, please." The prince's pale gray eyes returned to Yaim. "He -- he just said it," Yarn spoke slowly, frowning. "Man, he... wanted me dead... so much. You warned me of death behind me. Then you stopped him from having me... zapped." He stopped the hand that wanted to rise to scratch his head. "I... I realized I was... am... something special?" "Special!" The financier exploded into laughter. His belly quaked. Hannanook ignored him. "Special? How? Why'd you come here?" Yarn said simply: "To kill him." He lifted the zaptube. Financier Curth laughed. "Oh tell him the truth, Hannanook. That thing won't kill me -- my brainwaves are the wrong frequency. But it would kill you, athlete, and you, Hannanook." The robe slipped all the way open on the right side, revealing the identical zaptube held in the pudgy hand. "As easily as this one." Yarn depressed his weapon's trigger. It grew faintly warm in his hand as he moved it from Curth's left eye to his right eye to his amused mouth. He was careful that it did not come into alignment with the frightened girl, pushing her pretty face into the carpet at Curth's right hand. "I told you it wouldn't," Curth said, still laughing. "Harmless to me IF as the smell of blood. Of course if you wanit to try it on this sec'y...?" "Master!" e girl protested. Vam eased up on the trigger. He looked at the vicious fat face and the beautiful pale one. Almost he thought to kill the girl to save her from the treatment she had been receiving -- and from Curth's gross body. "You see, Vam," Hannanook said, "you and I are -- different. Some men had ancestors who originated from simple one-celled organisms developed in a huge natural chemical caldron called an ocean. Other men had ancestors who were developed without prior stages of evolution -- in an artificial vat in a man-made oratory. Our ancestors, Yarn -- yours and mine -- were of the laboratory type. Racially proud men such as Financier Curth call us -- androids." V arn looked at the prince and at the fat financier. "You too, Master?" "Just prince, Varn. Yes, metoo. Though how the financier discovered the fact -- " "Intelligence, Hannanook!" the fat man chortled. "Intelligence! Man has thousands of years of it to fall back on. He doesn't need to exert himself. Didn't you know I'd take precautions? I'm prepared. I don't think your father will want it known that the royal bloodlines are android. As for your corpse -- obviously an impostor's. People will say that I discovered the fraud and extracted quick vengeance for the real prince who was murdered by plotters. Androids exist only to serve Man's bidding. No one is going to want to aolmowledge androids as royalty -- no one!" "Theire, Financier, you are wrong. As wrong as you were to gamble everything on Probin. The royal family of Aleria is about to become known as android and acknowledged as such. That's tme whether you zap me or not. So don't count on not being brought to justice -- you will be." Curth frowned. He didn't look as though he'd ever laughed. His eyes locked with the prince's, and Varn found his own eyes filled with those of the helpless sec'y. What a shame, Vam thought, that she and he and the prince could not somehow escape from here. Perhaps if he put himself between the prince and the Brinapi's weapon... "You must not move, Varn," Hannanook said. "The financier needs a moment or two to decide to give himself up to me rather than face what he knows will happen to him if he commits a royal murder. The financier wouldn't like what would happen to him then, Varn -- no man would." On Curth's whitening face large drops of moisture appeared. Sweat coursed down his thick neck, crept from the dewlap beneath his chins and rolled unheed into his robe. "You know, Varn," the prince continued conversationally, "if the financier does make the sensible decision for once, I think I'll give you a choice. You can defeat Probin in a fair fight, and I've a mind to let you. But if you are killed or badly wounded through trying... then I won't be able to use you for the further plans I have." "Furthea:... plans?" Vam's mouth felt dry. He wondered at the prince's bravery. Surely only a god could be so calm while facing a zaptube. #X Tarn, in a short time there's V going to be some serious fighting. I'm helping to arrange it. There'll be some men of the original human stock involved. Men, Yarn, who haven't done anything much more energetic in their entire lives than push buttons and instruct androids. Some of these men haven't forgotten how to think, and not all of them think as Cupth does. It's going to be a job training them to fight. Yam. That's where you come in -- you and a few other Solitonese androids. Your choice can be to fight Probin and win, and then come with me if you're in condition to come. Or, if you prefer, you can try to enlist Probin. Enlist him to our cause and persuade him to go with lis to Aleria. Together, Probin and you can help train men. Train them not to put on a show. Yarn, or to settle things in a symbolic fight. Train them, rather, to deal efficiently with humans who have too long held control of things. It will not be an android revolution. Yarn, it will be a human police action of the most necessary kind." "You talk," Curth said, "as though this tubespawn is something special to you. As though his life is of any more account than -- than this sec'y's." "You're right, fat man. He's special because he believes he is special and has acted as he thought a special man should act. As least one ancestor of mine did the same thing. Financier, and maybe some of yours did also. A man is what he believes, not what his society or his culture would have him believe. He, not someone else. As for this girl, are you sure she's not special? How do you know what she believes? When she grabbed your retainer's arm and spoilt his aim before I could, that sirised you, didn't it? Didn't it, Financier?" The financier's eyes narrowed. A nerve twitched at the edge of his tight mouth. His nostrils pinched as he drew in a breath. The signs were unmistakable; Yarn saw a coward nerving himself for the deathstroke. Acting frpm reflex. Yarn propelled himself in front of the prince. Directly in front of the zaptube. At the same time a beautiful blonde head had arched above the chair-arm. Perfect white teeth flashed. A strong, young neck braced; and a slim hand with sharpened fingernails came to the aid of the teeth. Yarn managed to change his fullarmed athlete's blow to a -- for him -- gentle slap. As the financier's head rocked back, he shot out his left hand and snatched the falling zaptube. Moments later Yarn found himself staring at a stunned and defeated Brinapi financier with a reddening cheek and a torn hand. He did not stare at the financier long. The girl who had just saved all their lives IF proved to be far too interesting, see the scar there, and the unblink"Well, Yarn," the prince said, ing eyes of a veteran. Curth gasped, "wjiat's your answer? Take your In their pouches of flesh his eyes time. No need to decide immediately widened. whether you want this sec'y and a Whether the light in Yarn's eyes crack at the financier's kind or not. was a glow or a glitter was unimporTake five or six seconds if you tant to Financier Cuirth of Brinap. like." What was important was that he read Yarn shoved his face close to the in those cold eyes the athlete's deT he Time Troller materialized with an audible pop. He was in a small but comfortable room, with a simple table, chair and bed, warm and well lifted. The only other occupant of the room was a small man, seated on a stool, his sparse hair combed forward over his high forehead, the dark eyes somehow vacant now as he studied the newcomer for a moment with little or no obvious interest, then casually looked away again. "Oh," said the Time Troller a little peeved. He had been expecting a better reaction than this. He'd always had it before. He was an impressive figure, after all; floating roughly a foot off the ground in the shimmering blue haze of his force-field, immaculate in a silver-fitted, one-piece suit, with matching gauntlets and high boots. Most people did a bit more than just look away again. "Good morning," he began tentatively. Suddenly the figure on the stool leaped to his feet, drew himself up to his full -- if somewhat diminutive -- height, his eyes blazing, and snapped, "Why do you not have even the common decency to bow to me?" The Time Troller bowed. Most handsomely. A rather sly smile flickered around the corners of his mouth as he did so. This was better, he thought, much better. At least he was getting a reaction, albeit a trifle unconventional. "Who are you?" "I am the Time Troller. Or at least, I am one of the Time Trollers." "Idiot!" The man snorted contemptuously. "You're another charlatan after some money for your damn fool inventions. Well, I haven't got any. Not now." "Do I look like a charlatan?" The man seemed to take in the stranger's surroundings almost for the first time. His jaw dropped. He sat down hurriedly and blinked. Then he blinked again. Then he shook his head, closed his eyes tight, opened them, blinked twice more, then groaned. "You're not dreaming, you know," commented the Time Troller gently. "Perhaps if I explained?" "It might be best." The Time Troller beamed. He loved this bit. "I come from the future," he said. "Millenia and millenia in advance of your time. I can't give you an exact date because the calendar has changed utterly at least three times in between, and during the Times of Trouble they lost count completely. So although I'm honestly not sure what our date would be in your Christian timing, I should think it would be roughly # A.D." The man's eyes seemed to be popping out of his head, but the Time Troller continued unperturbed. "Time travel as such is an impossibility, of course," he said. "None can travel back in time so as to be able to live in a previous age. All they can do is project themselves back in a sort of three-dimensional image, as you see me now. I am not really solid, you know." The man jumped to his feeit as if to test this statement, but he was brought up short. "Don't touch!" He stopped. "You must excuse my shouting, but it was meant as a friendly warning. I may not be solid in the one sense, but I am definitely present in another. Had you put your hand, or anything, into my force-field, it would have disintegrated instantaneously." The man frowned. "What do you mean, disintegrated?" "Vanished. Disappeared. Phutt." He grinned blandly. "Now let me continue my explanation. We can observe, comment, exchange conversation, but not actually be present in the flesh. Not only that, but there is a time limit to our stay in any given place." "A time limit?" "It does seem a little odd, doesn't it?" the Time Troller replied cheerfully, "A time limit in this context. But it's true all the same. We are cast back, like a trawl, but when we arrive we cannot move from the one spot inside the force-field, and we are limited to half an hour. One of our half-hours, that is. It works out as about thirty-ifour and a quarter of your minutes." "So you're not here in the flesh?" The man seemed to accept the story readily enough. "No." "And you can't really influence events?" "Well, theoretically no. But it doesn't always work out like that. For example, a Professor of Chionodynamy of my acquaintance found himself on Mt. Sinai by mistake one day as some poor Hebrew was looking for a lost sheep. The shepherd saw the force-field, thought it was a mirade -- fire without burning, you see -- and the result was that we nearly ended the Egyptian Empire of Rameses. The majority of the slaves left, you know. Most unfortunate." He tut-tutted busily. "Did you say," said the man, "that he found himself there by mistakeT "Afraid so, yes. You see, when you're covering a period of nearly three hundred and fifty centuries, you often get miscalculations creeping in. A century or so is nothing. I've even forgotten now where he was supposed to be heading for. Whatever it was, there was consternation when he got back. But he couldn't correct the mistake then." "Why not?" "You can never go back to the same place twice. No one really knows why, but there it is. That's allowing for the fact that if it were possible in theory, you'd probably end up somewhere totally different anyway. It's all very disturbing. I wish they'd perfect the process. I mean, recently I was aimed for the last phase of the Martio-Jovian Commercial War of Era Three, and where did I end up? On Pluto. Smack in the middle of the Great Radiation. I spent the whole half-hour bored stiff, looking at bomb craters. Three and a half centuries out! Ridiculous." The man looked suitably sympathetic. "Why do you do it?" "Do what?" "Go back in time? I mean, if you can't be sure of exactly where you're going, it seems a bit odd." "We go back to troll for information, dear boy. To check up on the historical facts and make certain they were recorded correctly." "Can you always understand the language?" The Time Troller allowed a superior smile to decorate his lips. "It's all done automatically," he said. "You could be speaking an#hing from Vegan to Etruscan, and so could I, but to each other what we say seems to be spoken in our respective native tongues. I seem to speak your language, you seem to speak mine." "Oh." The man nodded. "Why are you here then?" "That depends on where 'here' is. I was meant to go to the United States in the mid-twentieth century." The little man shook his head. "Oh dear," he said, "I'm afraid you're a little out. This is St. Helena, in the early nineteenth century, and I've been exiled here." T he Time Troller looked at the man with new eyes. He saw the hand tucked idly into the waistcoat, the polished boots and the highcollared coat. "You mean to say that you are...?" "Your servant, sir." The Time Troller positively radiated joy. "Well, well, well," he declared effusively, rubbing his hands together in enthusiasm, "we may be some way out, but it's not often we get the luck to meet someone as eminent as yourself face to face. Marvellous. Marvellous." "I'm very flattered. I don't get much flattery these days. Not like the old days at all, you know." He allowed his head to sink forlornly on his breast. "No, I hardly think it would be. It was the old days that I was thinking of asking you about, actually." IF "Go ahead then. I'll to help." For a moment the Time Troller paused in his upsurge of enthusiasm and took a long cool look at this person. He frowned in some puzzlement. "You seem to be taking all this very calmly," he said. The Emperor shrugged. "When as much has happened to a man as has happened to me," he replied placidly, "so many unexpected ups and downs, twists of fate, nothing, however new or unusual it might be, is going to surprise me very much." The Time Troller shrugged in his turn. It sounded reasonable. Then, adopting his best interviewer's pose, he stabbed his head forward aggressively. "Do you think your invasion of Russia was a failure?" The man smiled. "It ended in retreat," he said simply, "so what else was it but a failure?" He paused, then before the Time Troller could speak he added significantly, "Of course, it succeeded in the one respect." "What respect was that?" "My real personal reason for invasion." "To subjugate Russia, to gain glory for your country?" "No, no, no. Alexander was after Josephine." The Time Troller sat up with a jerk. "I beg your pardon?" "The Czar of Russia desired Mme. Beauharnais." "You're joking." "Joking? Do you seriously think I could joke over a matter so close to my heart, so deep, so wounding, so...?" He paused, at a loss for words, and waved his hands in the air in expressive Gallic gestures. "That barharian, that holy-father milksop, with his pious notions of pseudoreligious nonsense, was making advances to my wife. I invaded his country to teach him a lesson." The Time Troller shook his head in perplexity. "But you divorced the Empress some years earlier,". jie said, "and married Marie Louise of Austria." The reply was a secretive smile. "A diplomatic trick, sir, to placate Joseph," he explained airly. "Josephine and I remained lovers." "And Alexander fell in love with her?' "I wouldn't dignify it with so honorable a name as love." "But... but this wasn't the reason for your invasion, surely?" "Are you calling me a liar?" he snapped, strangely impressive in anger despite his lack of inches. "What I am telling you is fact, no matter what history books may say in your distant times. I was misunderstood in the past, my past, I am misunderstood now, presumably I will 'be even more misunderstood after my death. You, of course," he put in witheringly, "would know far more about that than I would. But that was my reason for invading Russia, whether you like it or not." "But this is ridiculous! This means that all the histories of the French Wars will have to be changed. Motives of Empire -- of the search for Glory -- they'll all have to go in favor of jealousy over a woman. I'd never have believed it. I'd always thought that..." He broke off suddenly as the blue haze around him started flickering wildly. "Surely my time isn't up yet?" "What's the matter?" "That means I'm due to go back any second. But there's lots more I want to ask you." He stared round helplessly as his image started to fade, to blur and waver. The wall became visible through his body. "Can't you come back and go on where you left off?" "I can't, I can't." The anguished voice grew fainter, dulling into a hollow whisper, an echo at the end of a long cavernous corridor that stretched for over thirty thousand years. "I told you, we can't ever return to the same place or time again, no matter how..." H e disappeared with a pop, exactly as he had arrived. The Emperor looked at #ihe spot he had occupied, then gingerly walked up and felt around to see if there was any trace. Nothing. Just a certain freshness in the air, charged with negative particles, though he could not know this himself. He shrugged once more, extending his lower lip in a most un-imperial gesture of resignation, then sat down once more to consider the event. Some two hours later his door was opened, and two figures entered. They bowed deferentially. "Good morning, Emperor." He gazed at them with singular lack of interest as they set down his tray of food and drink. "How are you this morning. Emperor?" one of them 'asked solicitOHy. "As well as could be expected," he replied. "Though my visitors at least do help to cheer me up." "Visitors?" They stiffened. "There was a time traveller here this morning." They relaxed, looked at each other and smiled sympathetically. "Oh, really? And what did he ask you about?" "About #." "Your invasion? To avenge the insult to your mistress?" "Mistress?" he thundered pre-emp-' torily. "My wife, man, my wife!" "My apologies, sire, your wife. Anyway, if this time traveller calls again, don't forget to let us know." "He won't call again. They can't visit ithe same place more than once." "So we'll never see him? Oh dear. Never mind. I'm sure he was suitably instructed." "He was." The Emperor smiled wickedly. "He said all the history books would have to be rewritten." The two men smiled again, saluted the pathetic little figure sitting alone on the stool and let themselves out. The door was locked behind them, securely. "That's a new one," commented one of them, adjusting his white coat round him. "What, time travelling? Perhaps he's going into a futuristic fantasy instead of the past. It would be a bit of a change from the same old thing, I guess. We've got far too many Napoleons as it is." They walked on, through the automatic swing doors at the end of the passage, out into the warm CaliIF IF  Serial Tie energy masters were criminals against my world. The trouble was in every important way -- so was I! T hree of my friends had disappeared in a single small area of the Pacific, just north of Easter Island, Like me, all worked for the Power Board, the group which was responsible for rationing man's severely limited supply of energy and which was, because of that fact, practically the world government, Bert Wehlstrahl had vanished a year before, and Joey Elfven ten months later, Marie Wadetsky had gone two weeks after Joe, presumably in search of him, and I was principally interested in finding Marie, (Don't ask for my name; it's bad enough to have to listen to it occasionally, and I'm certainly not going to put it in print.) Since the two men were police workers of a sort, it was likely that their disappearance was not accidental, so my first step was to search the ocean bottom in the key area from a camouflaged vantage point -- actually one of the spherical escape tanks used in ordinary cargo submarines, somewhat modified for my purpose. I found evidence of rationing violation the moment I reached the bottom --  almost landed on it. A mile down there was an area actually lighted artificially, and apparently concealed under a flat, translucent surface which I interpreted as some sort of fabric. Seeing energy wasted to light the outside of a tent roof was bad enough; the sight of a swimmer in what looked like ordinary scuba gear under five thousand feet of sea water was far worse. The technological capacity so demonstrated . suggested something much more serious than an ordinary blackmarket energy gang. My tank was not very maneuverable, but I managed to get myself captured' and towed to an entrance to the undersea base. Here I dropped a sonar transponder which should guide Board enforcement forces to the spot, released my ballast and headed for the surface with the comfortable certainty that the swimmers could not follow far because of the pressure gradient. This belief proved wrong. One of them hung on to my tank and by pounding on it was able to guide a sub to the scene. After doing my best to get the 'nearly helpless tank away, I was really captured and dragged back to the bottom. The tank was brought to a lighted pit in the ocean floor There were no doors or air locks. The swimmers, who had loaded my tank with enough ballast to keep it down even if they lost hold again, towed me into a tunnel which led from the entrance pit, along it for a short distance, and into a flooded room. Then they removed their helmets. fter recovering, more or less, from the shock of seeing people breathing water, I got another one by discovering that Bert Wehlstrahl was among them. Communicating with him wasnt easy; he could hear my voice through the walls of the tank, but couldnt talk himself -- reasonable enough if his vocal cords were trying to wriggle in water. He had to write his messages. He told me very little; I assumed that this was partly because of the communication difficulty and partly because of the audience. He said that Marie was somewhere nearby, still in her sub, but that he knew nothing of Joes whereabouts. He also dropped a remark which forced me to revise my belief that he and the others were breathing water. They weren't breathing at all, as more careful observation showed. Also, the liquid around us wasn't water, but something denser. I realized that I should have spotted this from some of the maneuvers incident to bringing my tank 'indoors." On the new theory, it seemed that these people must be getting their oxygen from some food or drink which released it slowly and let them small intestine -- the enormous presIF sure made this seem at least possible, though further data were certainly needed. Bert would give no details. He said that I could stay and join them if I wished, or that I could return to the surface if I agreed to include certain information, which he would supply, in my report of the Board. Marie had been offered the same choice but had refused to make it -- refused, in fact, to do anything until she was told what had happened to Joe. She didnt believe Bert's claim of ignorance, he said. After thinking it over, I agreed to stay, with some mental reservations. I could obviously do nothing from inside the tank, but something had to be done -- first about Marie, and second about getting this frightful flood of wasted power tied into the world energy net. The inside of the place was as brightly lighted as the outside. I would take my chances about being restored to air-breathing capability later. Bert had said it was possible, but I was beginning to wonder about Bert's reliability myself. I was unconscious during the change, which involved surgery. I woke up immersed in liquid, comfortable enough, and with no urge to breathe. Bert and some of the 'natives" -- with whom I had no luck whatever in communication, either by written language or signs, though they seemed to have a complex sign language of their own -- accompanied me around the place. I saw Marie in her sub, and confirmed Bert's report of her attitude. I went outside to the farm" area for food, incidentally learning that the tent" was merely the interface between the sea water above and the liquid in which we lived. I did not find out which, if any, of the vegetables we ate might be our oxygen source. Finally I was taken to see their main power installation, which was of course what I had wanted; I had expected to be kept away from it until they were more certain of my motives, but they showed no sign of suspicion at all. The generator was simply a huge crystal-heat engine, its high-temperature end far down in the rock below the sea bottom and its heat sink simply the ocean. It was all obvious enough -- except, how, why and by whom it had been built under a mile of sea. There was also some doubt about what I could do about it, though none of course about what I should do; all these megawatts should obviously be feeding into the world power net and getting properly rationed. I could make no plans which seemed at all promising, though. I was still wondering whether Bert were actually working under cover for the Board or had gone over to these power-wasters. I couldn't decide whether it would be wise to trust him with any ideas I did develop. This point was suddenly clarified -- slightly. He had told me in so many words that he didn't know where Joe Elfven was. Now he took me to the office of the power unit's director. Joe was inside, apparently in charge.   T hat sight made a dhange in me. Bert had been a good friend of mine for several years. I had trusted him; Marie, admittedly, had not and had tried to get me to share her feelings, but I'd felt sure she was just brooding. A few minutes ago I had been jolted when Bert confessed to a falsehood in his earlier talk to me, but I had still been ready to listen to his excuses. I would even have been willing to believe that I had misunderstood him the first time. But he had also told me -- written it in plain words, with no possible doubt about their meaning -- that he did not know about Joe's whereabouts and that to the best of his knowledge and belief Joe had never gotten to this place. Clearly and unarguably Bert Whelstrahl had been lying like the proverbial rug. He had known that Joe was here. He had known just where he was and what he was doing. Why should he tell such a lie to me and apparently to Marie? And having told it, why was he now bringing me face to face with the proof that he was a liar? And had Marie formed her impression by spotting some evidence I had missed? One thing was certain in my own mind. Whatever explanation Bert gave was going to have to be supported by some pretty good independent evidence before I could accord it any weight. So was anything else he said from now on. These thoughts were interrupted by Joey's pulling away from his viewer and catching sight of me. The expression on his face indicated that Bert hadn't told him about me either. He was clearly astonished, and seemed delighted. He came over and shook hands violently, and seemed as frustrated as I was by the impossibility of talking. He looked around, probably for the writing pad, but Bert was already busy with the stylus. He held his words up for both of us to read. "Joe, we know you're tied up for the next few hours at least, but will it be all right if I give you another assistant as soon as his first job is finished?" I appreciated his tactful skipping of my name and felt a excuses when they came. I suspected from Joe's quick grin that he appreciated it too; a few weeks away from our section hadn't let him forget my chronic embarrassment at the handle my parents had inflicted on me or my self-consciousness about all nicknames offered as substitutes. "More than glad," he wrote. "Check him out as quickly as you can, Bert. We need him badly." He came as close to slapping me on the back as the medium permitted, grinned once more and went back to his viewer. I would have liked to make more of a conversation out of it, but was coming to see how anyone who had been here long might start to lose the urge for idle chatter. I could even think of a few people who would be improved by such a change in residence. I waved a farewell which Joe didn't see, and followed Bert back out into the control room. IF I was going to put some pretty harsh questions to him, but he had the writing pad and circumstances made it difficult to interrupt anyone else's talk. He had stopped swimming and started writing by the time I got through the door. "I didn't want you to know about Joe until after you'd had your talk with Marie," were his words. "In fact, I only just decided to let you know even this soon. I don't think she should know he's here, and I'm quite sure he shouldn't know that she is." I grabbed the pad. "Why not? It sounds to me like a dirty trick on both of them." "If she knows he's here she'll want to stay." "What's bad about that? You wanted me to stay, as you said, and I never denied she's more decorative than I am." "She Wouldn't stay because her only reason for doing it would be Joe, and you know as well as I do how much good that would do her. You know he doesn't care two cents for the kid. He chose to stay down here, remember. If she learns about him and stays, she'll be giving him a hard time, and we can't afford to have that happen. The job's much too important. If he gets distracted, or changes his mind about staying here, it's trouble." "And why shouldn't he know about her?" "For the same set of reasons. He'd know why she was here, and it would be as bad as though she were hanging around him in person. He never admitted it, but I think she was one of the reasons he chose to stay here." "You mean he disappeared on purpose? That he knew aboutthis place earlier?" "Oh, no. He got here just as I did, and as Marie did. He spotted a work sub that didn't belong to the Board and followed it." I pondered. The story had some convincing aspects; Joe's attitude toward Marie was almost as well known as mine, though no one had ever convinced Marie of it. Few people had risked trying. Joey himself wasn't the sort of man who could tell a girl to run along, even if it were obviously the best thing for the girl as well as for himself. He'd feel it was somehow his fault for not falling for her. "But why should you have had to lie to me about it?" I asked finally. "Because you were going to see Marie, and I had some hopes you'd talk her into leaving. You'll forgive my saying that if you'd known Joe was here you wouldn't have been able to tell her that as far as you knew he wasn't. I'm not belittling your acting ability, but you wouldn't have ibelieved it was necessary then." "I'm not sure I do yet. I'm still in the dark about this very important job Joe has to do and I'm supposed to help with." "True enough. We'd better get on with your education. Library next." "Will these guards, or whatever they are, be with us to the end?" "It's hard to say. They aren't guards, just people who are interested. You ought to be flattered." (Oh, I am. I've never been a celebrity before." It's curious how hard it is to convey irony by the written word alone. Bert missed it completely, as far as I could tell. He swam back in the general direction of the tunnel we had come down, and the rest of us followed him. A s I had guessed, the way up was along a different route -- maybe I should say a different pipe -- with the current, as I'd also expected, carrying us up. As usual the trip was not enlivened by conversation, though I found it wasn't too boring; the girl swam beside me instead of trailing behind with the others. As before, I didn't know how long the journey took. I'm not clear how they controlled the current. It had carried us down one passage, it carried us back to the same room through another, but in the room itself there was no trouble in stopping. Bert opened the big door, and we shed our coveralls on the other side. Then he led the way once more. I was a little surprised, and a little more disappointed, to lose our escort at this point. They turned off into another tunnel a few yards from where we left the coveralls. No doubt they, too, had to work at times. I put them out of my mind, more or less, and followed Bert. This is one of the points where it's hard to be detailed without being boring. A library is a library, even when it's upside down. The books were ordinary in shape and style, if not in content. The films and cards were in no way remarkable. Like unballasted human bodies, most of them tended to float. The chairs, tables and carrels were on the ceiling, with racks under -- no, I mean over -- the chairs for parking ballast belts. Not everyone parked them, though; many readers had their belts still on as they drifted in front of a reading screen or floated with a book in their hands. The images on the screens were all of the general sort the girl had drawn on the writing pad, second cousins to electrical diagrams or grad-school topology exercises. I watched several of the readers for some minutes each and got the opinion that while they were reading in the same sense that the word usually implies, there was an important difference in technique. They did go page by page or frame by frame, as the case might be, spending half a minute or a minute on each before going on to the next. But their eyes didn't follow the regular back-and-forth routine of a book reader. They wandered irregularly over each page, like the eyes of a man examining a picture. Still, I reflected, that wasn't too surprising. The same thing would happen to me if I were examining a wiring diagram. I was gradully coming to understand the situation, perhaps rather slowly by some people's standards. I hadn't thought of engineering drawings as a language before. B ert floated quietly around for several minutes, evidently willing for me to study the place by myself. At last, though, he beckoned me over to one end of the room. IF There was an unoccupied film reader here, and a fairly large case of books. It took about two seconds for me to notice that these were written in ordinary laniges. Chinese    Urdu    Latin    English ... Russian .  . I could recognize them all, even though I couldn't read many of them. Bert started writing again. "This stuff yvill tell you the story much more quickly than I can. It's no shock to you by now that a lot of people, not only Board workers, have foimd this place in the past. It's been here since before there was a Board. A lot of diose people have stayed. Some of these books were brought here by them, some were written here by them. The information here is what convinced me of the things I told you -- the business about attempts to get in touch with the Board about this place, and so on. "Spend as much time as you need absorbing it. It's important that you get die whole story. I'll be back when it's time to eat." He laid the pad under a chair -- that's not quite the right way to say it; the pad was denser than the liquid, so figure it out for yourself -- and swam off. There seemed to be nothing to do but start reading. Now, I don't have copies of those books and tapes. And I know Bert was a liar. But take my word for it, there were far too many of them for him to have product himself in the time he was down here. Most of them were handwritten, though some had been typed. I spent something like eighteen solid hours just skimming the ones that were ia languages I iknew. (I shoid't sa solid hours. Bert did come jback to take me to meals, and I also slepi. There's no point in describing all the details of life, even if the enyironment did make some of them rather unusual). I'll boil down the picture I got of the situation to the smallest volume I can manage. T he place had indeed been in existence before the Board. During the final few decades before rationing, the separate political institutions which existed then were one by one coming to realize that man's ener reserves were indeed vanishing. A number of frantic attempts were made to avoid, or at least postpone, the consequences without offending public opinion -- or rather, without disturbing public complacency. My own historical knowledge is shaky, but I seem to remember that this was the period of the "crash program," which cynical engineers of the time used to define as an administrative attempt to produce a baby in one month by making nine women pregnant. You mi know some of the results, like Mediterranean-Dead Sea tiydrodcKilo onnel, the Messina, Key On Bid Ai fura dams, the Vidparaisdi Ibramocouple, the Bandung pid Akoreyr volcanic taps. Some wo ive, and even valuable, some monuments to inept politics. You know the further consequences of some of them -- the disputes over output use which led to a dozen minor wars, which in turn wasted more energy in a year than all the crash units together could produce in a human lifetime. And you know that the final result was the formation of the Board and general acceptance of power rationing. During the period of friction several nations attempted to set up secret power plants, in the hope either of avoiding the covetousness of their neighbors or of providing themselves with energy reserves in case violent conflict did occur. Most of these "secrets" were secret only to the general public of the nation concerned long before they were producing -- such of them as got that far. A few lasted for several years after Board rationing began. It had been assumed that the last of these had been found and tied into the general power net many decades ago. But here was another. It was as simple as that -- almost. I didn't find in the records just what country was responsible. I didn't try very hard. The name would have been almost as meaningless to me, born more than half a century after country names had become merely geographical labels, as it would have been to Abraham Lincoln, who died probably twice as long before the nation in question existed. It was probably a small enough country to be worried about its neighbors, and certainly a large enough one to be highly industrialized. The technique of deep-sea living which was being so effectively demonstrated to me at this moment was not la product of casual, or ev of crash-program, research. It must have involved a very long development period. Knowing something of the customs of the time, I'm still amazed that the secret was kept -- though I can guess at the steps which in those days would have seemed normal and proper to achieve this end. Anyway, they set up the station and had it running nicely before the Board and rationing became a realityRemember, it was a secret. It had to be. Only a handful of people would have known about it at any one time, other than the thousands of permanent residents. That handful, when rationing began and all power sources became public property, simply and quietly withdrew from the world and severed connections with it. A little ruthlessness may have been necessary, but I prefer to believe that the worst to happen was a little forced change of address. At any rate, there was suddenly a new nation with a population of about fifteen thousand at the bottom of the Pacific. It was well supplied with manufacturing and synthesizing plants, and over-supplied with energy. Fifteen thousand people. As Marie put it later, fifteen thousand aristocrats -- and more than fifteen More realistically, fifteen thousand cut flowers. Most of the accounts I read expressed, or at least hinted, the belief that the severance of relations with the surface hadn't been meant IF to be so complete. It must have been obvious to all concerned that a population of tbat size wm far too small to maintain a hiy technical culture and equally obvious that only a highly technical culture could live under those conditions. They presumably meant to maintain intellectual contact with the rest of mankind -- probably they even meant to maintain physical connection, since it's hard to believe that they expected to be able to manufacture every piece of equipment they needed to keep themselves going. But they didn't maintain those contacts. They couldn't. They might possibly have managed, even in the face of the unexpected difficulty,, if what contact there was didn't have to be siureptitious; but the two factors together broke the link. The unexpected difficulty might have been foreseen if the station had been running for more than a very few years before the break; there would have been some eye-opening experience. As it was, the experience came later. A technical culture has to be a literate one, at least until some adequate substitute for the reference book can be devised. Did you ever consider the problem of teaching a phonetic language like Russian or English to someone who had never heard a spoken word and can't produce a sound himself? All right, I know it can be done by a highly trained specialist. What do you do, though, for the specialists needed when no one in the entire population can speak a word and you want to teach the new neration to read Farrington Daniels's Mathematical Preparation for Physical Chemistry or some similar basic work? You're not qualified yourself. All your neighbors are in the same boat. The kids themselves are playing around together, presumably communicating by signs of some sort, but what are the chances of the signs they've invented for themselves being useful for explaining elementary vector analysis? Even elementary discipline questions are hard enough to get across; in this medium it's impossible to administer a decent spanking. Still, you've got to produce a certain number of competent engineers and technicians with each generation, or the whole group is going to die in the darkness and chill of the ocean bottom. What youd do I don't know, but this group leaned heavily on pictures. I don't know the details. There were differing versions in the books I read, and I suspect that many of them were guesses on the part of the writers. There must have been a lot of determination, some panic, a high general intelligence level and a certain amount of plain luck involved. As it came out in the end, the grandchildren of the original group had the use of a highly workable written language which must have evolved, just as I'd suspected when I saw it, from electrical and engineering diagrams -- the sort of things where the connection between symbol and experience could be most easily shown to the growing children. The IF gesture language was a derivative of the written one, with gesture patterns standing for drawn symbols in much the way that our phonetic written languages are derivatives of the spoken equivalents. Think over the details yourself; I'm still incompetent. What I could see was that children who had never heard a spoken word and had grown up using a language which is basically pictorial, with a back-up code of gesture symbols, are going to have quite a time learning a language which is basically oral, with a back-up code of written phonetic symbols. I don't say it will be impossible for them. An intelligent and determined person can accomplish remarkable things. I do say that very, very few of them are going to consider it worth much effort. The majority, however intelligent, are unlikely to be determined. Of the few that will make the effort, none will have much confidence in their own skill, because they will never have had a chance to check it except on each other. They'll be like a social club which has decided to learn Sanskrit as a project and has only books to learn from. There'll be some uncertainty even in matching an engineering text with the machinery it's supposed to describe. Given the choice between using the original maintenance manual, printed in chicken tracks which really Stand for sounds they've never heard, and using the notes made for their convenience by the maintenance workers who already know the machines -- which are the kids going to do for homework? O f course, the original books are still available as the years go on. They oertainly aren't getting worn out. Unfortunately, as the years go on the original books become less and less useful. They need modern texts, in one sense; but there are two strikes against the modern text. First and obviously, they can't read it. Second, it's about as directly useful on machines designed and built a century or so ago as the manual on a power lathe would be to a flint-axe maker of thirty thousand B.C. The machines designed and built so long ago have lasted well, but not perfectly. Routine maintenance must, more and more often, give way to major repair and even replacement; the original books don't cover these problems even if they could be read. The notes of the maintenance engineers certainly don't cover them. So these people need helpers from the surface, either engineers who can do the necessary work without following a manual, or else harder-todefine experts who can take modern books and transfer their meaning to the local maintenance specialists. Maybe school-teachers would be the best term. In other words, they need Joe, and Bert, and Marie, and me. They need practically anyone they can recruit from the surface. Need us. Marie's hypothesis was perfectly right They've been getting people like us for decades past -- the people whose writings enabled me to figure all this out -- and their survival depends on keeping it up. But that gave food for another thought. It was easy enough to helieve that ii certain percentage of the people who had come to this place, either accidentally or as a result of surreptitious recruiting, had been persuaded to stay of their own free will. It was much harder to believe that all of them had been. What had happened to those who had not agreed? I could see two possibilities. One was the fate which Marie seemed to expect if she tried to leave. The other was the explanation Bert had offered, that they had been allowed to return to the surface unharmed but that the Board had covered up their stories or reports. But Joe was a proven and admitted liar. He might also be wrong. There were references in the books I had read to visitors who had arrived, but of whom nothing more was mentioned. Of course if they hadn't stayed it was unlikely that anything would be -- either way. I didn't like to believe that violence had been used -- I preferred to believe that Bert was right. Still, Marie was far from stupid, and the morals of this isolated culture might well be those of a century or so back. In fact, in some ways they obviously were. I t was enough for me that there was even a possibility that Marie might be in danger. For once, I was in complete agreement with Bert; she had to be persuaded to leave at once. Furthermore, she should be guarded until she was well away from here. Guarded by me. That meant two jobs, of which the first was likely to be the harder. Marie bad listened to Bert's arguments about her leaving for several weeks, with no result except a complete undermining of her trust in Bert. How could I possibly do any better? I claim to be a reasonably good engineer, as I've said before, and I can run a competent investigation when the subject is an essentially technical one like tracking down where power is going. I'm not a plotter, though, in the real, old-style meaning of the term, and for a while I was completely stumped by this problem. I suppose what blocked me so long from a working idea was a natural reluctance to tell anything but the truth to Marie, back up by an even greater dislike of causing her unhappiness. I don't know what finally broke through that block. Suddenly, though, it seemed as clear as Say that if Marie were bound and determined to stay as long as she believed that Joe might be alive down here, she would presumably go if she were to be convinced that he had died down here. I didn't like the idea. I don't like lying, especially to people who trust me and most especially to Marie. I went through the usual stage in childhood where lying seemed the easiest way out of all troubles, but some very good teachers and a pair of understanding parents, assisted by a close friend with a good right cross who outweighed me by fifteen pounds, had helped me outgrow it. IF In the present case, I had to tell myself repeatedly that it was for Marie's own safety before I could decide it was proper to do. How I convinced myself that it would also be worth the unhappiness it was certain to cause her is something I choose not to discuss. Once I was convinced, the plan was so simple that I wondered why Bert had never thought of it. After all, he seemed to lack my prejudice against falsehood. I suggested it to him at the first opportunity, and he couldn't see why he hadn't thought of it either. He approved strongly, and complimented me as eloquently as developing writer's cramp would permit. Then he set to work on arrangements. The plan was simple enough, Joe's sub was still here, of course. We would simply wreck it, tell Marie we had found the remains, and if necessary show them to her. A little care would make sure that the registry number and enough other identification features remained recognizable. With that much agreed, we set out for the dock where the boat lay. We'd have been able to get to work the moment we reached it, except for the fact that the half-hour swim without communication had enabled each of us to work out all the details. When we resumed conversation, the details didn't jibe, and it took half an hour or so to reconcile them. With that, actual work and Bert's search for people to help us with transportation, more than six hours passed before we were really ready to move the sub outside. We didn't attempt to run it out under its own power, though that would have been possible. It had been allowed to fill with the livingliquid at local pressure after Joe had been converted. We were able to work on its inner plumbing with no trouble. We thought of bringing it back to the "operating room" and connecting it with the transfer lock so that we could pump room and sub back down to surface pressure, but an easier plan had occurred to me. Like all deep-work machines, Joe's vessel had very large lift and ballast tanks. The former still worked, not having leaked enough flotation liquid to matter, judging by the sub's present buoyancy. The latter, of course, were now full of the liquid which formed our regular environment. They were in two major units extending nearly the full length of the hull parallel to the keel, with each unit divided into four cells by bulkheads containing valves and transfer pumps. We opened all these valves. Then we cracked the seals on the maintenance ports without opening them completely, so that fluid could bleed between the main hull interior and the ballast tanks. The ballast scavenger pumps would now, given time, empty the hull as well as the tanks. Finally, we arranged for the collapse of the hull. I had taken for granted that we could use ordinary explosive squibs, forgetting how sound affected a person living in liquid. The things simply weren't to be had; they were never used here. We finally settled the problem -- we thought -- by opening all the interhull inspection plates and removing as many of the bolted braces -- the ones which had to be removable for maintenance purposes -- as possible. It seemed pretty certain that pumping out the hull now could hardly help but cause it to collapse. A good deal of time was wasted trying to improvise something that would start the ballast pumps either by time or from outside. It finally occurred to someone -- not me -- that there was nothing to prevent us from starting them from inside and then leaving, shutting the lock after us. Pressure would not start to drop until the hull was sealed off from the ocean. T hat seemed to finish the job. The sub was already weighted in near-equilibrium with outside ballast, so we picked it up and began to swim toward the nearest entrance. There were ten of us altogether, and the load wasn't too bad. We brought it to a halt under the roof opening, pushed it up until it met the interface and left it there while we donned outdoor coveralls. I wasn't yet accustomed to these. I hadn't. yet gotten around to asking what the little tank on the back was for -- my theory didn't account for it, as you may remember. There was no chance to ask now. Bert helped me to adjust everything properly, though I wasn't sure what he was doing part of the time. In three or four minutes we were casting off the outside ballast, and the sub was entering water tor the last time. We left a little negative buoyancy on her, and some of us walked supporting the hull while the rest swam and pushed it. Bert and I hadn't made any special plans about where the wreck should be staged; obviously it shouldn't be too close to an entrance, or there'd be little excuse for not having found it sooner. On the other hand, it wouldn't be possible to carry the thing too far away. We gave it an hour of travel and then let the hulk settle to the bottom. Personally, I couldn't have found my way back to the entrance we had used, and it would have been sheer luck if I ran into one. Bert and the others didn't seem worried, however. I assumed that they either knew the ground or had some navigation scheme I hadn't yet learned about. The only light came from our own lamps, whose radiance formed a tiny glowing dome in the immense blackness of the Pacific. We were far out of sight of the tent area, as I still called the farm region in my own mind. I didn't even know the direction in which that lay, and knowing would have done no good since I had no compass. Bert gestured me toward the sub's lock. I opened it and went in. In a way, I hated to do this, but the idea still seemed good. What I had to do inside was done quickly; it amounted only to closing two switches. I closed the locks behind me and joined the others. We had recharged the boat's batIF teries, and there was no worry about there being energy enough to empty her. I was quite proud of remembering that point -- large as the tanks were, adding the hull volume to them meant a tremendous additional job for the pumps. However, I had barely reached the rest of the group when we were reminded of something neither Bert nor I had thought of, and for which there was not the slightest excuse for either of us. Emptying the ballast tanks with the flotation tanks still full put positive lift on the boat. Naturally, she started up. Fortunately the initial rise wasn't too quick. I was able to catch her, open the lock under power -- I couldn't have done it manually with pressure difference already set up -- and unseal and open the liftjettison valves. By the time I got outside again the ship was a couple of hundred feet from the bottom. The swimmers were flocked around covering the scene with their lights: I looked at the top of the hull and saw the oily stream of lift fluid pouring out. The rate of climb was already slowing, and in a muinte or two it ceased and reversed. We followed the ship back to a place on the bottom not too far from the one we had picked. And there we waited. And waited. And waited. T he helpers talked finger-language among themselves. Bert and I couldn't talk at all, since the pad had been left back at the entrance when we had donned the coveralls. We each knew just about what the other was thinking, though, and as time went by and the hull just lay there we began to exchange inquiring glances. The pumps had had time to handle the total volume by now, certainly. The inside of that ship should be practically a vacuum. We had paid no attention to what was left in her air tanks. There couldn't have been enough to matter at this pressure. No bubbles had appeared from the ballast vents, but any air released by the tanks inside might well have gone into solution at this pressure before being ejected. The problem was not whether the inside pressure was zero or some small number of atmospheres, though; it was what we could possibly do about the hull's failure to collapse. The pressure would stay down until long after the pumps ran out of fuel, and even that would be a long time since they must now be running free. Considering the general reliability of Board equipment, it could be months before some tiny leak let the internal pressure build up again to the point where even power could open the locks. I didn't know how long we could sit around without more oxygen-food, but it certainly wasn't months. As a matter of fact, it was going to be fairly hard to explain the three days or so which had already passed since I had seen Marie. Any more would be much harder, but I couldn't afford to see her again without a convincing story about Joe all ready. A . depth charge would have been helpful. Even a squib would probably have been enough; the hull. after what we had done to it, must be very, very close to its limit. Unfortunately, there were still no explosives available. All I could think of was to take the sub back, have Bert or me go into the conversion room, attach the sub to the lock which was supposed to connect the room with just such visitors, go through whatever had to be done to get the man back to surface pressure and pump the room back down so he could get into the sub to start everything over. I didn't like the idea. I was pretty sure Bert wouldn't either, but I couldn't find out under the circumstances. It wasn't the sort of idea which could be transmitted by any gestures I knew. It was going to take quite long enough with the writing pad. I did manage to make Bert understand that we would have to go back for the pad and a conference. When I tried to indicate that the sub should be brought with us, though, he vetoed the suggestion flatly. After a minute or two I stopped trying to push the idea. As I said, I wasn't too fond of the basic plan anyway. He made some gestures to the others, and all but four came with us; the four settled down on a level patch of mud twenty yards from the ship and started a game of some sort. At any other time I'd have been curious about the details. The swim back was, of course, much quicker than the one out -- or rather, would have been if we had made it. I don't know how far we got in the eight or ten minutes we were swimming. I suppose a quarter of a mile is a reasonable guess. I'm not the world's most efficient swimmer, and even I wasn't overworking. The interruption, like so much else which had gone wrong with our plans, should have been foreseen, but none of us had foreseen it. If we had, we wouldn't have been waiting anywhere around the sub after her ballast pumps had started. It was obvious enough in nature, and the only reason I didn't realize what had happened in the first second after the event was, of course, that I wasn't really conscious. XX I f you submerge yourself in water and have a friend knock a couple of large rocks together repeatedly, starting twenty or thirty yards away and coming closer until you can't Stand it any more, you may have some idea of what happened. I can't describe how it felt. In fact, since it 'knocked me unconscious for several seconds, it isn't right to say that I felt anything. There was sensation of a sort, though; perhaps if I were ure just what it feels like to be hit with a sledge hammer simultaneously on every square inch of my body I might use that as an illustration. As it is. I'll have to let you use your own imagination, aided if you like by the experiment I suggested a moment ago. The shock affected all of us IF about equally. It was a minute, perhaps more, before we were swimming as fast as we could back toward the place we had left the others. None of us had any doubt about what had happened; none of us was really eager to go back to the scene. But we hurried. I had expected to find four bodies in the mud where our companions had been enjoying their game, but it wasn't that simple. The wreckage of the sub was about where it had been, as far as I could tell. But the shock wave as the hull imploded had kicked up a cloud of ooze which was still settling, and our lights showed us very little. We stayed close together and swam through the obscurity in all directions, searching every square foot of bottom not only for obvious fragments but for signs of objects buried under recently settled mud. That took no communication to arrange. We found one of the men partly buried about fifteen feet from the nearest part of the wreck. He seemed intact as far as gross injuries were concerned, but I knew he couldn't possibly be alive. The shock wave had knocked us out at several hundred yards, and the inverse square law applies under water, too. We could find none of the others on the bottom, but as the mud settled another of them became visible about twenty feet up, rising very slowly. A thin trail of oily droplets was leaking from the base of his helmet. I hadn't stopped to think that with the dense Uqukl have flotation material to let the wearers swim in water. With the heavier liquid leaking out, the fellow's buoyancy was going positive. That made it fairly obvious why we couldn't find the other two. They had probably sprung faster leaks. I could imagine them somewhere above us in the dark, ballooning toward the surface with the last of the liquid that had made their strange lives possible dribbling back toward the sea bottom. I thought of looking for a rain of oily drops which might let us track them, but I had no way of communicating the suggestion to the others, and it was pretty obvious that our lights were far too weak for such a search anyway. The rest of the group had the same general idea, evidently. With the two bodies in tow, we headed back toward the entrance. I wished there were enough light to read the facial expressions of our companions. I would have liked to be able to guess how they felt about the foreigners whose operations had killed four of their friends. I didn't know what reason Bert had given for the whole procedure; maybe they thought it was an important piece of engineering research, or something like that. I hoped so. It was bad enough feeling guilty myself, without having the rest of the population down on me too. I also wished I knew how Bert felt. The victims might have been close friends of his, for all I knew. I thought I might get some idea when we reached the entrance, but I was disappointed. There was plenty of excitement when we came in, but I simply couldn't tell what most of the facial expressions meant. I hadn't realized how conventional such expressions actually are; unless you've grown up in a society where there is a standard face mask for anger, and another for disgust, and so on, reading faces isn't a very safe way to collect information. The people might have been angry, sad or disgusted; I couldn't tell. There was much gesturing among them as the bodies were taken away, and a certain amount between some of them and Bert, but all I can say about their feeling toward us comes from the fact that we weren't mobbed. I couldn't even be sure that that situation would last; maybe no close friends or relatives of the victims happened to be present. Activity around the entrance took half an hour or so to die down to normal. The bodies were finally gone, the men who had been with us had swum off about their own affairs and the swimmers one always seemed to see around any of the entrances were paying no more attention to us than usual. For some of them, that was a good deal; the girl who had gone down to the power section with us was back with her friends. Bert was finally able to use the writing pad again. There was a lot I would have said -- I was still feeling shaken, and guilty, and a lot of other things of which stupid was the kindest -- but the same old communication trouble blocked me. There are some times when a man just can't talk fast enough, and a lot of times when he can't come even close to writing fast enough. I rather expected Bert to say something about what had happened, since I was sure enough of his facial expressions to know that he'd been hit pretty hard too. But his writing was confined strictly to business. "That should convince Marie, if anything will. The best thing will be for you to go to her now, tell her Joe's sub has been found wrecked and try to persuade her to take her own boat out to see it. Then going. If she won't believe you and insists on staying put, we'll have to bring the wreck in. That'll have to work. I don't know what we'll do if it doesn't." "You could stop feeding her." He looked at me and raised one eyebrow. "Could you?" he scrawled. I shrugged my shoulders, but knew I couldn't. "Lead on," I wrote. He led. T he speechless pauses while I was going from one place to another would have given me all sorts of opportunity to think, and maybe even to see holes in the fabric I'd been so busy weaving, if I were only another hundred per cent or so quicker on the uptake. As it was, the next twenty minutes of swimming brought me no ideas at all IF except details of what to say to Marie. None of these represented firstclass plotting. I was still very uneasy as I swam up to her sub -- Bert had stayed out of sight, as before -- and tapped on the hull. Fortunately, that attitude fitted perfectly with the act I was supposed to play. Marie answered almost at once, and her face appeared at the conning port. It was nice to see another set of features on which the expression could be read, even though the expression wasn't all I would have liked just at first. It softened a little when she recognized me, though. As before, I couldn't be sure of her vocal intonations, but the words came through understandably enough. "Where have you been? I was beginning to think they'd disposed of you, too." I answered the important part of the remark on the pad. "Finding things out." "From Bert?" "No. They have a library here, much of it handwritten stuff by other people who have come down here in the past -- and much too much of it for Bert to have written himself. The writings are pretty consistent, and I think I have a fairly sound picture of the whole situation." "What did you learn about Joe?" I hesitated. I had been sure the question would come early, and I had my lie all made up, but telling a lie to Marie came hard. I told myself again that it was in a good cause and started to write, but she had already caught my hesitation, or maybe the expression that wt with it -- I've never claimed to be an actor. "You have heard about him, haven't you?" I nodded. "And he's -- he's -- " She fell silent, watching me through the armor glass. I nodded to that, too. It was easier than writing an out-and-out falsehood. I couldn't see anything but her face, but I could imagine the clenched fists. In fact, I had to wince as what was probably one of them struck the inside of the hull and sent a painful sound wave pulsing out into the room. Her voice came again. "I was right. He wouldn't sell out. He wouldn't give up everything a decent person believes in, so they killed him." "Why should they destroy him that way?" I countered. "It could have been done much more easily while he was inside, as he must have been when they were talking to him if you're right. They could have let him suffocate or starve -- which they haven't done to you, remember -- when his supplies ran out. They wouldn't have wasted the sub that way, either." "Simple. Because they wanted the death to occur outside, with him in the sub, so that when a search was made it would appear a regular accident. I'm surprised you didn't think of that." At least she didn't say "even you." I'm slower-witted than Marie and know it perfectly well, but I had tlKU(g)it of that, as well as an answer for it.  "Don't be silly. Who'd be surprised, or even suspicious, at finding nothing when they did search for him? The Pacific has a lot of square miles at its bottom, and even more cubic ones on the way down." For a wonder, she had no answer to that, and was silent for several seconds. When she did speak again, she had dropped the subject of Joe for the moment and asked me to tell her what I had learned from the library. I t took a long time, but I did my best. She read each page with care, sometimes nodding silently, sometimes asking questions after finishing it. I answered them all as my knowledge permitted. About half her questions had to do with how heavily I had depended on Bert for my information. It must have been over an hour before I had painted about the same general picture for her that I had formed myself. I closed with the plea that was the key to the whole plan. "Marie, you've got to get back and report all this. Whatever Bert may have said about your staying, the Board has got to knxw everything. Bert and I will get back on our own when we can, and you don't have to consider Joe any more." "Bert? Why should he want to go back? I know he's staying. He admitted it. He's had a taste of doing what he wants, without having to consider other people. He tried to talk me into doing the same, the dirty beast. The fact that he's staying here is the only thing your suggestion that I go." 'T don't believe that of him," I wrote. "He told me he was staying, too, but implied that it wasn't permanently. My feeling then was that he'd joined to find out what we need to know and would come back when and if he could, just as I did." "I can believe it of yon." She fell silent again and thought for several minutes while I listened to my own heartbeat. It was the most encouraging thing she'd ever said to me, and I felt worse than ever about the lie. I had to tell myself several times more that it wasn't for her own safety. Her own safety wasn't Marie's concern, however. She made that clear enough in the next few minutes. When she finally did speak again, it was clear that she'd been doing some rapid planning. "All right," she said. "I'll go, though I still don't think they'll let me get away. There'll be some sort of accident. I've an idea, though, which just might tell which of us is right about this." "I looked at her inquiringly, but didn't bother to write anything. "You seem to believe that they're port to the Board, and that the change that's been made in you and Bert can be reversed so that you can IF come back and breathe air again when you want to. Right?" I nodded. "All right. I don't believe either of those items. To find out, you just swim off and tell Bert that m go back if he'll come with me, in this sub. He can come back down afterward again if he likes, but I'll be much more convinced of his yarn if I see him breathing air again, and I'll feel a lot safer if he's in this boat with me when I drive it out of here. Now tell me why you think that's a silly idea and a waste of time and effort, and all that sort of nonsense." I didn't need air-normal sound transmission to know there was sarcasm in her tone; I couldn't hear it, but it was certainly there. She didn't trust me entirely, either. At least I could get some satisfaction out of surprising her with my answer. "It seems like a fine idea to me," I wrote. "I'll find Bert and put it up to him. I suppose you wouldn't accept me as a substitute if he prefers to stay a while longer." Her expression changed a little, but I wasn't quite sure what the new one meant. " 'Fraid not," she said. "It would prove your point about the return possibility, but I don't think you'd make as good a hostage." That was some comfort, anyway. "We'll play it my way, as far as it goes. Go find Bert and learn what he says." I swam off obediently. Bert was waiting in the entrance chamber this time, apparently improving his knowledge of the finger language with the assistance of our same old followers, the girl and her friends -- two of them, anyway. I couldn't have told which was the missing one. I had boiled everything down to one sentence on the pad and showed this to him the moment I was close enough. "Marie says she'll go if you'll change back and go with her." He stared at it for a full half minute without even moving to take it from my hand. Then he suddenly snatched it and, without clearing the writing, swam off down the tunnel toward the sub. The rest of us followed. He streaked over to the conning port where her face was stm visible and held up the pad with my words still on it. She looked at it. He pointed at me and back at the pad and put on an expression which anyone, regardless of cultural background, could have read. She answered aloud. "That's it, Bert." He cleared the page, looking at her in a puzzled fashion. "Why?" he wrote. "I may explain later. Will you come?" His answer startled Marie. I wasn't sure what it did to me. "Sure. I may have to come back later -- there's useful work to do down here. But it might be best if I went with you now anyway. There's a lot to be reported that there hasn't been time for either of us to tell you." I thought that was a pretty tactful way of passing off her refusal to listen to him all those weeks. "I could make a more UI tharougii job of it." He paused in thought, even longer than it took Marie to read die sentences. Then he went on, "We'll tow your suib to the operating room -- it'll he easier that way than for you to pilot it -- and connect it to the lock. I'll go in and get depressurized. They won't argue too hard. I can come in through your lock then, and we can go hack up together." He turned to me and added the word, "Okay?" I wasn't sure it was okay. Without Bert I wouldn't be able to do anything useful, as far as I could see. No doubt the girl who was still watching us, and her friends, might until I learned my way around. They might even guide me back to where I could work with Joe, if that was to be my main occupation; but I couldn't see what use I'd be to the Board that way. I hope it's been obvious that I never intended my residence to be permanent, as Joe apparently had. I hadn't been lying to Marie about that. There was no use suggesting that I go back with the two of them. The sub wouldn't take us. It was built for one, and crowding Bert in would be hard enough. T ien I remembered that Bert's own sub should still be around somewhere. I gabbed the pad. "Why can't we all go back? I wrote. "Your boat must still be here, too. If Marie feels so strongly about having you in hers, I could still use yours. You can still come down again, or both of us can, if the job seems to call for it." It seemed like a fine idea to me, and even Marie appeared to approve of it, but Bert had a question or two. I had to admit he raised good points. "The operating room will handle only one at a time. Once I'm done, there'll be communication trouble during your own depressurization." "You could explain the whole program to them first. For that matter, I could go through it first." "I'm not sure I could explain it too well. Remember, I'm no expert in this finger-wiggling." "But why couldn't I go first, with you directing which sub was to be connected, and so on, until it was your turn?" "You could, I suppose. We'd better check my boat, ithough. It's been here a long time and been used for regular work here. The flotation system will certainly need going over. I'm not sure I'd like to risk it against pressure differential myself, but we'll see. We'd better check that first." Marie had been reading our conversation and nodded approval, so our flock went off to look over the vessel. He was right. The flotation liquid was completely gone. It hadn't been used even locally for months, since there were no facilities for making the hydrocarbon its buoyancy tanks were designed to use. The local machines used the" same sort of lowdensity solid employed in the swimming coveralls; it would have involved major structural changes to put that into the submarine. No one had considered it worth the trouble. IF "I could use one of the local boats," I suggested when this became clear. "Don't try it until you learn the language," was the rejoinder. That seemed a little silly. A sub is a sub, and you either understand them or you don't. A look into one of them educated me, though. I still don't see why their control panels are made that way; the laws of physics are the same down here as up above. Apparently the difference in basic thinking which goes with that weird graphic language extends into more factors than mere common sense would lead anyone to expect. I t began to look as though the other two were going back alone. Bert seemed quite resigned to it, and even I was getting that way. When we went back to Marie with the word, though, she came up with another of her ideas. I've come to suspect since then that she had something more in her mind than just getting me back to the surface, just as she had when she insisted on Bert's going along, but she didn't confide in me. Of course, that may have been because there was no way for her to speak to me alone. "There's plenty of spare buoyancy in my tanks," she pointed out suddenly and firmly. "Just attach that wreck of Bert's to my tow-lugs, and v.e can haul it along. You say the hull's sound enough to hold against the pressure when you pump it down again." Bert seemed startled, no doubt because he hadn't thought of that himself. That was my suspicion, anyway. But he promptly agreed; and so it was settled. He went off to get help in towing the subs and to arrange for the operating room, and I took advantage of his absence to write a remark or two to Marie. "You seem to have been wrong about Bert. He certainly took you up fast enough on that test suggestion." "So I noticed." I waited for further comment, but got none. I suppose I should have known better than to expect any. When she did speak again, it was on a wholly different subject -- I thought. "Be sure you check the bitts on both subs very carefully." I nodded, surprised; that was too standard a procedure to call for special comment. "And the lines, too. You'll use mine; they're newer." I agreed silently, wondering and perhaps hoping a bit. Anything from Marie that sounded like interest in my welfare was enough to make me hope. I was still several miles behind her reasoning, only partly because I hadn't started out with the same set of prejudices. She wanted it that way, I guess; she firmly changed the subject by asking about the people who were floating beside me. "Who are your friends? Is the lady one of the reasons you decided to stop breathing air?" "No!" I wrote emphatically. "I never saw her to my knowledge before I made the change." I couldn't understand why Marie was laughing. "I can't introduce you, because I've never heard their names. With this language, I'm not sure what a personal name would be like. Miaybe they haven't any." She grinned for the first time since I'd seen her down here. "That accounts for your staying, then. No, don't bother to point out that you didn't know about the language till afterward. I know you didn't. It must be a strong recommendation for the place, though, now that you do know about it." As it happened, I hadn't thought of that. She was quite right, though. That was one nuisance of my life which couldn't possibly follow me down here. Marie was watching my expression and, I guess, reading it like a book. She laughed even louder than before. The sound wasn't much like laughter under the circumstances, but it was different enough from ordinary speech to catch the attention of my attendants. They looked from me to the sub and back, but could make nothing of it. The girl smiled again, though. Marie was right, in a way. If I did have to stay down here for any reason -- I killed that thought firmly. Where Marie went, I was going, sooner or later. T he party grew almost gay for a while as we waited for Bert. Both Marie and I tried more communication experiments with the girl and her friends, but only the most elementary signs made sense to them, and not always even these. We even tried to get the idea of a phonetic alphabet across, Marie providing the sounds and I the symbols. But it was hopeless. This wasn't entirely due to their own background deficiencies; sounds were modified enough in this combination of media so that basic letters no longer abstracted the same parts. For example, "p" and "s" didn't sound as different as they should, and when you put them together in a word like "speak" the combination of symbols had even less resemblance, or I should say recognizable relation, to the combination of sounds. About all that was accomplished before Bert came back was to convince even Marie that there was a genuine, serious problem in communication to be solved. She wasn't even yet, convinced that it was worth solving. She was as a whole separate culture rather than a group of criminal fugitives from our own, but she still thought of the culture rather as a dignified lady of mid-nineteenth century Boston probably regarded the South Sea cannibals her missionary society had told her about. At least, she was polite to them. The politeness faded a trifle when Bert came back with bad news. The Council, it seemed, would hear nothing of letting both Bert and me go back to the surface at the same time. Either one was all right, but not both. I was dumfounded and unable to fit this into my picture of the situation. Marie didn't actually say "I told you so," but the look she gave IF me earned die thought completely. It was unfair, since she hadn't. She might have guessed it for herself, but she hadn't told me. Maybe it was that look that stiffened me up again. I reminded myself that the main thing was to get Marie back to the surface safe and sound. After she'd reported in, the Board would certainly open communication with this place, no matter what Bert thought, and there'd be all sorts of other chances to get back myself. I still, you must remember, didn't believe Bert's claim that the Board had ignored or buried earlier reports of this installation. My feeling was based mostly on my personal prejudices as a long-time Board official; I just couldn't imagine the organization's doing such a thing. So it still seemed sensible for me to let the other two go back together while I stayed on temporarily. I said so, without all the background thoughts, on the pad. Bert agreed at once. M arie seemed a little less enthusiastic now, but finally decided that this was acceptable. Bert suggested that he go off once more to report the new situation to the Council and find help for towing the sub, but she countered with the idea that she drive it herself with one of the natives swimming ahead as a guide. Bert could tell the guide where she was supposed to go. I was a little surprised that she was without Bert along, in view of her stated plan, but I realized that she might have thought of several new aspects of the matter since then. I hoped she might want me to go with her to the conversion lock instead, but she made no mention of such a thought. Once again I felt 'way outside as far as her plans and ideas were concerned. We waited until Bert had finished waving at one of the men, which took quite a while. Then the fellow set t)ff along the main corridor ouitde the room, and Marie lifted her boat from the floor and followed in his wake -- that's not a very good word, since he couldn't leave a visible wake under the circumstances, but you know what I mean. Then Bert started off to make his arrangements with the Council. He had almost disappeared when I thought of something and had to hiury after him. Fortunately he wasn't being very hasty himself or I'd never have caught him; it was a major nuisance, having no way to call out to get someone's attention. It occurred to me that there ought to be clickers or tappers or something of that sort for the purpose. It then occurred to me that maybe there were, and I simply hadn't learned about them yet. Anyway, I did catch Bert and quickly wrote a question. "Shouldn't someone let Joe know where you're going? He's going to be in almost as bad a mess as I am without you." Bert thought for a moment, and nodded. "Probably best, yes. You'd better do it while I see the Council. Only for Pete's sake don't let it slip that .# Marie is (here." I looked properly indignant. 'TU have one of these folks show you the way. He ought to be off shift right now, though he often stays longer than anyone expects. Anyway, you can try his quarters, and then the farms, before going back down to Power Control." He turned to the others and began gesturing again. He finally managed to get his wishes across, though it was still evident that he had spoken the truth about knowing only a little of the gesture-speech. I wasn't disappointed to have the girl touch me on the arm and beckon me to follow. We still had company, but things could have been worse. B ert must have gotten across with his gestures just about what he'd written. We went first to what was obviously a private residence -- at least, it was obvious after we were inside. Its door was just another of many along one of the tunnels. The girl used the first audible signal I'd heard since arriving -- a very ordinary, though very gentle, knock on a round panel beside the door. When this went unanswered for half a minute or so she opened the door and swam in. Evidently standards of privacy were different here. The apartment was divided into three main rooms, seemingly on a basis of use; one seemed to be for sleeping, one for reading and similar solo activities and the largest for more public gatherings. Joe wasn't in any of them, and the girl led us out again and off in a new direction. A short swim took us to another of the upward-slanting tunnels leading to the farm area. I was more alert this time and caught the change in slope. Out in the open, she stopped and looked around to see whether Joe was in sight. I spent some of the time she was looking in trying to calculate the size of the farm area from what I knew of the population size and the number visible eating at one time. I decided I'd need a better estimate on how long the average citizen spent both at meals and between them before my results could mean much. It took about five minutes of looking and questioning others for the girl to find Joe. I spent some of that interval writing my message to him, so that when we did catch up with him I was able to give it to him without delay. It merely said that Bert was taking a trip to the surface, and that I understood I was to start working with Joe as soon as he could use me. Elfven nodded his head, took the pad, wrote, "All right. I'll be going back to work in a few hours. I have to sleep after I finish eating. Can you find your way to the control room yet?" "I'm not sure, but I seem to have a good guide," I replied. He glanced at the girl and nodded again. "I wish I could make something out of one or the other of these communication methods," he wrote. "We're going to have an awful time without Bert. Why is he going himself, instead of sending you?" "He seems to feel that he can make a more complete report than I cam," I answered. "I suppose he's rit. As long as we're working mostly with each other we won't miss die language too much." J oe shrugged, suggesting that he wasn't entirely in agreement but didn't feel strongly enough about the matter to write an largument. He resumed his eating. I took a few mouthfuls myself, but was more concerned with getting back to Marie; so I touched the girl's shoulder -- she was eating, too -- and pointed toward the tunnel mouth from which we bad come. I had managed to keep track of its direction. She nodded and led the way. At least some signs were understandable to both of us, I guessed. It took us ten or fifteen minutes to get back to where we had left Marie. She wasn't there, of course; I got the impression that my guide had forgotten that the sub had left ahead of us, though I may be doing her an injustice. At any rate, she promptly set off in the direction the boat had gone, and in another quarter of an hour we had reached a place I could remember -- the corridor with the big valve which had admitted my tank when I had taken the pressure treatment. Knowing more of the general situation now, I paid more attention to the smaller loQk. A close look showed that it had a heavily armored extensible collar, now retracted, which could ibe mated easily to the entrance hatch of any ordinary work sub. I was a little surprised that Marie's boat wasn't already there. I think the girl was, too. At least, she looked around as tfaou didn't quite know what to do or where to go next, and then looked at me as thou expecting some further request. All I could do was nod; I was quite sure that this was the right place. It occurred to me that tunnel size might have forced the others to take a longer route than swimmers would need, or even to go outside, but I could think of no way to make this suggestion to my companions. For that matter, I could imagine no reason why they shouldn't think of it for themselves; they certainly knew this place better than I. It was Bert who showed up first, accompanied by a man of middle age and alert appearance. He didn't exactly introduce the fellow to me, but used the writing pad to tell me tiiat he was the doctor who would manage the heart-lung equipment and make sure that cavities such as sinuses and middle ears were taken care of during the pressure change. They had been with us ten minutes or so when the sub appeared Irom the direction of the ocean entrance. At almost the same moment another swimmer joined us from the opposite direction. I took a casual glance at him, supposing he must be another of the technicians who would be needed for the job; then my eyes closed as I tried to dear my retinas of what I hoped was a false image. When I opened them again, though, it was still Joey Elfven. I had to admit that the stage manager, whoever he was, had done a good job. J# IF I also had to admit that we should have foreseen it. Joey should never have been told of the departure plans until Marie and Bert were safely away. Nothing was more likely than that he would think of some final questions he wanted to ask Bert, and he would certainly know where to meet him. Evidently Bert was no better a schemer than I was, but that was very little comfort at the moment. Marie saw him before either Bert or I could think of anything to do; the sub suddenly left its swimming guide behind. Seconds later its water jets sent us spinning as it came to a halt in front of our group. Yes, Marie had seen Joe. Her politeness with the savages had evaporated. I had been hearing my own heartbeat and those of people near me for some time now, but I hadn't realized until this moment how loud that beat could be. Marie's voice, though, turned out to be louder. Her first words weren't just the ones I would have expected, but I've already admitted that she thinks a good deal faster than I do. Not always in the same direction, or even in the right one, but faster. "Joe!" It ought to have been a howl of surprised welcome, but even the peculiar acoustical situation left me pretty sure it wasn't. It's hard to believe that a girl known to have gone so completely overboard for someone could address him in the tone of a stern aunt, but the resemblance was there. "Joe, how long have you known that I was here?" Joe looked around for the writing pad; I was delighted to hand it to him and in no hurry to get it back. "I didn't know until this moment," he wrote. "How long have you known that Bert was here?" "A few weeks. I dont remember exactly. Within a day or two of the time I got here myself." I could guess what was coming next, but fortunately for me I was wrong. Marie was not a technician. She can run a sub in the ordinary course of duty, naturally, but she is not really familiar with all the handling and operating gear carried by a work sub. For that reason. I'm still completely mystified how she managed to coordinate her next move so perfectly. One of the smaller handling tongs popped out of its recess and caught Bert neatly around the neck, and only when he was firmly gripped did she follow the action with words. "You dirty liar! You slimy piece of trepang! I ought to twist the head off your crooked neck! If it were possible I'd throttle you here and now! You knew why I came and who I was looking for. You knew he was here. You didn't tell him I'd come, and you lied to me about having seen him. You twisted poor Tummy so that he followed your own crooked line!" I somewhat resented the implication that I hadn't brains or initiative enough to be held responsible for my own actions, but I was able to resist the temptation to break in and insist thait part of the plan wias mine. I didn't even object to her use of one of my more odious nicknames. I just let her words run on. I won't quote any more of them; as I've said 'already, I promised her not to. I was a little sorry for Bert, since the grip on his neck must be hurting, but as Marie herself had said she couldn't very well strangle him under the circumstances. I was sure she wouldn't if she could have. Not Marie. The others seemed rather concerned, though. The girl and her regular companion flung themselves at the extension arm and wrenched at it usdcssly. The doctor tried with equal lack of success to pry the tongs from around Bert's neck. Joe knew better than to do either, but he was clearly bothered; he waved and shook his head at Marie in an effort to convince her that she should stop. It was the sort of scene which shcd have been accompanied by lively music, screams, the thump of fists and the crash of broken glass; but it all went on in ghostly silence. No screams, which were impossible; no fists, which couldn't move fast enough in this medium to make much of a thump anyway; no apparatus within reach which was fragile enough to be damaged by the gracefully thrashing bodies. It was Joe who managed to bring it to an end. He was still holding the writing pad, and he hastily printed on it in the largest letters that He held this against the coming port so Marie could see practically nothing else. It took a few more seconds, but she suddenly got her senses back and released the tongs. Bert's face was purplish, and he had lost consciousness; the doctor grabbed his wrist, I thought to check pulse, but in fact simply for a tow bar. The two of them disappeared into the operating room. I hesitated for a few seconds, unsure what was most important, and then went after them. The girl and her friend followed me; Marie's guide stayed outside with the sub. Joe, after looking as though he would come along, changed his mind. In the operating room Bert was quickly fastened to the table, and the doctor got to work. Strictly speaking he wasn't a doctor, as even I realized; there can be no doctors in a population of a few thousand people which has been separated from the mainstream of human knowledge for three or four generation. He was a darned good technician, though, and fortunately was working right in his own field. He did 'know that heart-lung machine cold, and he knew the general run of troubles involving the human breathing and circulatory systems. Interfering with the cougWng reflex, as these people had had to do for their pressure-survival system, had produced some fallout along those lines. There were controls for the machine and its auxiliary gear inside the room, presumably in parallel with the remote ones. Quite evidently depressurization wasn't the only purpose of the apparatus. IF I n something under sixty seconds the tech had Bert plugg into the gadget, andhis color was coming back to normal. Then, in more leisurely fashion, other instruments began looking and prying down his throat. Apparently very little real damage had been done there, though the outside of his neck was starting to discolor into one huge bruise. In less than five minutes the doc -- I'm going to call him one, under the circumstances -- withdrew his equipment and used a hypodermic on his patient's upper arm. The needle must have contained a stimulant, for Bert opened his eyes almost at once. It took him only a few seconds to get oriented. Then he fixed his eyes on me and actually blushed. He was still a little confused, because he started to speak. The pain in his chest as he put pressure on his liquid-filled lungs brought him back to reality. He looked around and made writing motions. The doctor didn't seem to mind, so I went back for the writing pad, which Joe still had. I didn't have to interrupt a conversation to take it. Joey wasn't writing, and Marie wasn't taJking. Apparently nothing at all had been said during the crisis in the operating room -- we'd have heard Marie's voice even there, and Joe's three words of a few minutes before were still on the pad. Marie was looking at him through the port, and he was looking everywhere but at her. I didn't pause to do any analysis. I just took the pad from Joe and swam back to the table. The doctor called Bert's attention to the blood connections between him and the machine, but made no real effort to stop him from writing. Bert nodded an acknowledgment of the warning and went ahead with the stylus. He wrote briefly, and handed the pad to me. "I'm sorry, but I can see when I'm checkmated. I hope your luck is better, though now that she knows Joe is alive I wouldn't bet on it. Tell her she didn't kill me, if you think the possibility is bothering her. I'd better not see her again myself." That was an eye-opening paragraph. Suddenly I saw just why Bert had been trifling with the truth, why he had concealed Joe's presence from Marie, why he had decided to go back to the surface on such short notice, why he had ibeen so far from completely frank with me -- and even why the local Council had been so reluctant to let us both leave. I also saw that I was in no position to criticize him for any of it. There was not a word to be said against 'him which didn't apply with equal force to me. The only reason I hadn't done as much, under exactly the same motivation, was that I'd been in no position to. I couldn't blame him, or even criticize him. I have failings, but I'm not that much of a hypocrite. I could be sorry for him; as he'd said, his chances were gone. Marie might conceivably come to realize that Joe was a hopeless case as far as she was concerned, even after this discovery that he was alive after all. She miglht possibly settle for me if that happened. But after the last few weeks and the discoveries of the last few minutes she'd never, never have any use for Bert. I gave him as sympathetic a look as I could as all this dawned on me, but I could think of nothing to write. He answered with a bitter grin and waved me toward the door. I went. The others, except the doctor, followed me. I wasn't through learning for the day, though. As I went through the huge valve and became visible from the tunnel outside, Marie's voice met me. It had sharp edges, but otherwise it resembled a heavy club. "Just where did you come up with the idea that these people weren't getting oxygen through their lungs? If I killed Bert Fm not too sorry, but it's your fault." Even I had had time to see that this question would be coming, but I'd had no chance to work out a very good answer. While the doctor had been working on Bert I'd been doing the same with my memory. It was evident enough that my theory of oxygen-food was out the window, but I still wasn't able to find a better. All I could do was repeat the theory and niy reasons for it. I also assured Marie that she hadn't actually killed Bert. Somehow my reasoning didn't look as air-tight written out as it had felt when I was thinking it through in the first place -- quite aside from the fact that it was now; obviously wrong. In spite of this, Marie seemed to calm down as I wrote page after page, let her read each, and cleared it and went on to the next. The forced pauses may have helped. "I admit you convinced me before," she said when I was done, "and I don't see what the hole is myself. Joe, in the time you've been here have you found out enough to let you tell us what's wrong with this notion?" "I think so," he wrote. He paused, and positioned himself outside the port so that Marie could read as he wrote. I swam to a spot a little further above and behind him, so I could do the same. "Your big mistake was natural. You were quite right in observing that we aren't breathing, as far as chest motions go. But in spite of that we are getting our oxygen from this liquid. It's wonderful stuff. You might regard its molecular structure as vaguely comparable to hemoglobin in that it binds oxygen molecules loosely to its surface. I don't know just how many, but the number is large. It doesn't have the porphyrin groups of hemoglobin; they went to great lengths to make it transparent to visible light. I couldn't draw you its structural formula from memory. But I've seen it. It's, perfectly understandable. "Now, think a minute. Liquid oxygen has a molecular concentration about four thousand times that of the gas we normally breathe. The reason we have to breathe is that diffusion, at sea-level concentrations, won't get enough oxygen through your windpipe to keep an animal as IP large as a ihuman being going. You can't live in liquid oxygen, of course, because of temperature problems. However, in this liquid the concentration of almost-free oxygen is far, far higher than in the atmosphere -- a long way short of what it is in other problem; while they were at it, they made the kernel of this molecule with a structure which would break down endothermically at temperatures above a few hundred degrees. A fire will tend to damp itself out, therefore. But that's a side issue, as far as breathing is concerned. C#TT#hen molecules of the stuff  Vgive up their oxygen in your your lungs, nearby molecules pass on more O # to the ones which have lost it; others replenish those, and so on. It's a bucket-brigade situation, but it's described by just the same equations that you'd use for a diffusion problem. The rate of oxygen transport depends on the concentration difference between the inside of your lungs and outside, and on the area of the barrier through which the diffusion is taking place -- in this case, the smallest cross-section area of your windpipe. In this case, the oxygen concentration around us is enough to keep us going by diffusion down our windpipes. I'm not sure about carbon-dioxide elimination, but I believe your theory is more nearly right there; it's taken care of by binding into insoluble carbonates in the intestines and gotten rid of as solid waste. As I say, that seems a little funny to me, and I may have misunderstood what I read about it. I'm going to dig into the matter more when I have time. I'm no physiologist, but it's fascinating reading, especially the history of its development." "But why such a fancy arrangement? A less efficient oxygen carrier would still work as long as you pumped fresh supplies' into your lungs! That's why we breathe, anyway!" Marie couldn't have been thinking at the top of her form just then; even I could see the answer. I took the pad from Joe -- in fact, he held it out to me, with a suspicion of a grin on his face -- and started my own exposition. "Pumping a liquid even denser than water through your windpipe would call for tremendous effort and probably dangerously high lung pressures. I tried it just after I made the change, and I know it hurts. I wouldn't be surprised if you could rupture lung tissues that way. It's a logical chain: fill body cavities with liquid so that outside pressure can be matched without serious volume change; then you can't pump the liquid with your normal breathing equipment; so you have to give it a high enough free-oxygen concentration to diffuse an adequate supply down your throat. Simple once you see it. What's the primary source of oxygen, though, Joe?" "Just what you'd expect. Photosynthesis. That's where most of the power produced here goes. About three quarters of the oxygen comes from gene-tailored algae living at the interface between the ocean and the breathing liquid. The rest comes from the farm plants. Loss to the ocean is low lecause of the favorable partition ratio." I took the pad again. "Well, at least I was right in guessing why laughing is dangerous, and why they do away with the coughing reflex; either action could rupture your lungs." "Of course," agreed Joe. "I don't claim to know the whole story yet -- even Bert, who's been here much longer, probably doesn't. Remember, all we could learn about it was what we read, and that was only what happened to be lying around written in languages we knew. We weren't told any of it by these people. Not only is it impossible to talk to them on such a level; I'm pretty sure most of them don't know it either. How many people at the surface, out of any 'given fifteen thousand, would be doctors or physiologists or even engineers?" "Hiat's why they need us so badly," I interjected. "Bert must have told you about that." "Who'd believe Bert?" snapped Marie -- we'd been holding all our writings so she could read them, of course, even when they weren't specifically meant for her. Joe took over the pad. C'ou'd better. Whatever he said I about these people being ready to do almost anything to keep technically skilled visitors down here is probably true. From what I've been able to make out in the last few weeks, unless some very extensive work is done on this installation quite soon, there'll be twelve or fifteen thousand people migrating back to the surface and asking for their power ration in the next couple of decades." "How could they have the gall to do that?" Marie asked in scorn. "They've been down here all their lives, squandering power that should have gone into the world network and shared with the rest of us. They're just like those old French aristocrats with their 'Let 'em eat cake' attitude -- except the aristocrats would have been too proud to come 'begging the Jacquerie for crusts if their own wealth vanished." "That was my first reaction, too," Joe wrote imperturbably. "I got myself pressured for the same reason Bert and you -- " he nodded to me " -- did; I planned to investigate as completely as possible and send up a report that would have the Board down here civilizing this place in a month. By the time I had enough data for a meaningful report, though, I realized it would be useless. The Board wouldn't do anything about it." "That's what Bert claimed," I put in. "He said that such reports had been sent back before, decades ago, and that nothing had come of them." Joe reclaimed the pad. "I never ran into any accounts of that sort. Bert and I wouldn't have looked for just the same material, though, an)rway. My point is that the Board can't do anything about it." "Why not? Look at all the energy going to waste down here!" interjected Marie. "Think again, girl. It's not going to waste, any more than the power used by natural plants on the surIP face for photosynthesis is going to waste -- far less, in fact. It's true that you can divide the power output of this installation by the local population figure and come up with a figure many times the normal per capita energy ration; but by far the greater part of that power goes into the lights. If you cut any significant percentage of the lights, you drop the photosynthesis rate to a level where there won't be enough oxygen for the present population. If you cut the population by much, even the shaky maintenance that the outfit has now will degenrate, and, as I said, the place will have to shut down. "You may criticize the decision the ancestors of these people made three or four generations ago. I agreed it was highly immoral by our standards. However, the current population is simply stuck with the consequences, and at least they're not drawing from the planetary power net. They're on their own, except intellectually. It seems quite in line with duty, to me, to stay here and help them. You'll have to make your own choice." Marie was silent for half a minute or so, wrapped in thought. When she spoke again, it seemed to be a change of subject. "Why did Bert lie to me? None of what you've been pointing out -- which I can see makes sense -- seems to call for it." Joe shrugged. "I have no idea. Remember, he didn't tell me you were here, much less anything else connected with you. I don't know what he had on his mind." J oe's eyes and Marie's both swiveled toward me. After looking at my face for three or four seconds, the girl said, "All right, you know. Out with it." I reached for the pad which Joe was holding out to me, and made it fairly brief. "He lied to you for the same reason I did. He didn't care what you reported to the Board, but he didn't want you ever to learn that Joe was alive. He wanted to get you back to the surface believing that Joe was just a memory and go back with you. I'd have done the same." Joe took the pad after Marie had read it, cleared off the message and wcoie, "Thanks, Pal," holding it so that I could see it but not Marie. Then he cleared it again immediately. If Marie noticed this, she made no comment. She may not have noticed, for my words had obviously jolted her. "I see," she said after at least two minutes of silence. "That puts a different light on the whole thing. He's less obvious than some people, I must admit." She paused for a few more seconds. Then, "Joe, I admit it's your own private business; but and truthfully why you decided to stay down here?" A negative shake of the head was the answer. "Or how long you plan to stay?" Another negative. "Or even whether you still regard yourself as a Board official?" Still refusal. I was pretty sure that Joe didn't really care whether Marie knew the answers to those questions. especially the first one; but, especially with the first one, he didn't want to tell her himself. He was coming as close as his personality would let him to telling her to get out of his hair. Marie, as I have already said many times, is sharper than I am, in spite of one blind spot. She looked at him speculatively after his third headshake, for several seconds. Then she suddenly turned to me. "Are you staying?" Naturally, I didn't know. All I could do was throw the question back at her; she might be rougher on me than Joe had been on her, but I was ready for it -- I hoped. "Are you?" I wrote. A shock wave, not quite painful, hit all of us; I don't know whether she hit something with her fist or stamped her foot. "Will you make your own mind up, just this once?" she snapped. That was unjust, of course. I'm perfectly able to make decisions, and Marie knows it. She's even admitted it. I just don't like to make them when there's a shortage of relevant information. She knew perfectly well what information I wanted, and why, too -- she'd just been trying to get the same sort out of Joe for the same reason. I made an honest effort to decide without reference to Marie, but I couldn't do it. O n the surface there is sunlight and sound. I hadn't really appreciated either until recently. Sunlight on trees and lakes, blue sky, red and orange sunsets. Girls' voices and falling raindrops and laughter and puns. Down here is the beating of hearts, humming machinery, tapping and thudding of random activity, but otherwise silence -- no music, no voices, not even a tongue click or snapping fingers. On the surface there is restraint. Every action is conditioned by the underlying awareness that it may involve a waste of energy which means life. If someone accidentally shorts a power cell or lets a fire start he feels as guilty as the Victorian-age girl who misbehaved with her boy friend. The fact that your wife is dying in a hospital five miles away is a borderline excuse for using a power vehicle. An air or space flight is considered only in direct connection with power acquisition or research projects. Down here, while there is actually only a slightly larger supply of energy per person, the difference in attitude is all the world. No one is either worried or offended that his neighbor has used more than his fair share of energy. I had winced time after time there in the library as a reader had swum off leaving his carrel light or reading projector going, with no one else even noticing the lapse. And why couldn't there be music here? I hadn't heard any, and singing was obviqusly impossible. But stringed instruments should work. They might have to be modified in design, but they should work. Electrical ones would certainly be possiIF ble. If there weren't any, I could design them. Even if there were no girls' voices, there were still girls. There was a good-looking one only a few feet away, watching us as though she had some idea of what was going on. But it was so different. Even with energy restraint gone as far as my neighbors were concerned, would I feel comfortable after a lifetime under its rules? Would the thought of the black, crushing ocean between me and all I had grown up with loom too large? Or if I didn't stay, would the thought of what I might have accomplished down here come too often between me and normal living? I couldn't decide. Even if I tried to cut out all personal factors -- not just those connected with Marie, but all which by any stretch could be called selfish -- I still couldn't. There was my regular work with the Board. It was useful, even important, and I liked it. I could do useful work down here, though, and would almost certainly like it. Reward, to be selfish again, meant littie in either place. Wealth as such has been meaningless since power rationing started, and down here I had seen no signs of plutocracy. Though admittedly I might have missed them; I know so little about the place. Of course, I could learn more. Neither decision was irrevocable. The only thing that couldn't be changed back had already been done; my coughing reflex was gone, and I'd have to be careful in eating for the rest of my life no matter where I lived. Maybe I could stay now, see more of what life here was like and go back up later on. After all, there was no reason why the two places couldn't stay in communication. I looked up and was about to write an answer for Marie when my thoughts started working again. Would there be communication? Joe had pointed out excellent reasons why the Board would not want knowledge of this place to spread, though he hadn't stated them just that way. Here was a place where power rationing, however real it might be mathematically, simply wasn't a conscious factor in life. Tbe population, as Marie had said, was like a group of French aristocrats in a world of Jacquerie. Ordinary morals up above called for a rigid attitude toward energy use which these people didn't have and probably couldn't understand. If too many people from the surface visited here and the word about its way of life spread at all generally, there would be trouble. Even if the spreading word remained accurate, which was most unlikely, a lot of the outer world's people would either want to migrate down here or build more volcanic-power installations so that everyone could have more. The old "why can't I have as much as he does" feeling would have people screaming for the modern equivalent of the philosopher's stone, to take an illustration from the days when wealth was metal instead of energy. I I The average citizen vould be able to see why the Board shouldn't do just that -- build more power stations to take advantage of the inexhaustible heat inside the earth. I hate to sound cynical, but I know that's one thing the Board would never do. They won't do anything to make power rationing unnecessary. C ynicism aside, they're perfectly right. The decision decades ago that hydrogen fusion was man's only real hope was almost certainly a sound one. We know that solving that problem isn't just a matter of engineering details, as was originally thought. Too many of the factors involved are inherently unstable unless held in by, at least, the mass of a small star. It's only a matter of faith that we'll solve it at all. And if we're to do so, it will take every effort -- the best that man can offer. And the effort will stop if anything happens to postpone power starvation. Mankind as a whole did practically nothing but waste his resources until that menace stared him literally in the face. If plentiful volcanic power suddenly eased the threat, the pressure would be off. Quite aside from the obvious collapse of morals which would follow, the fusion work would come to a halt. It might go on in name, but the work would stop. Men are too casual; the best of power-plant operators start, leaving office lights on when they go out, just because it w a power plant and there's so much on harid. And considering what the Board sometimes has to do about that very attitude, I shouldn't count on being allowed to go back up if I stayed here now, or come back down if I went up now. It would be safer to regard my present decision, whichever it might be, as irrevocable. And that realization, political philosophy and morals aside, didn't make the decision any "easier to make. Was there any chance that the Board would insist on this place's joining civilization and tying into the power net? None. The very process of connecting would be almost impractical. Considering the trickle which could be spared above the photosynthesis drain even if the local population adopted the surface-rationing level, decades would pass before the energy investment of making the connection could possibly be paid off. It might never be. All of which meant that the transponders I had gone to so much trouble to plant represented wasted effort. So -- should I stay here or not? Did I want to live here, or in the sunlight? I still didn't know. T he temptation was to let it all depend on Marie's decision, but Marie wasn't publishing her decision. Bert was out of the running -- as far as Marie was concerned he had never been in it, apparently. You'd think she'd realize by now that Joe was a hopeless case as far as she was concerned. Why wouldn't she give me at least a hint? She did. She got tired of waiting for me to come up with the answer I couldn't make and started talking again. For a moment her first words sounded like a change of subject. "What do you suppose Bert will do now? Stay here, or go back?" she asked. I was glad enough to leave unanswerable questions for the moment. "He stayed here for a year before all this happened," I pointed out. "I can't see that the last few minutes can have given him any burning urge to change his mind. I should think he'd have less reason than ever to go back now." I raised my eyebrows in query to Joe at the same time. He read the note, shrugged as usual, then nodded. Marie's answering comment was the eye-opener. "I wouldn't say that," she remarked. "One of you should tell him I understand. I wouldn't want him to feel too unhappy about it all." I looked at Joe. He looked at me, and raised the eyebrow on the side of his face away from the sub. Neither of us had ever realized that forgiveness could depend less on "what" than on "why." I turned to the pad once more, and wrote. "If you really feel that way. I'll tell him. I'll be staying down here to help Joe and should see Bert again often enough. I'm almost as good a linguist as he is and may make some headway in untangling this ghastly excuse for a communicacation system." I thought it better not to make any comments about possible interesting language teachers. If Marie had another change of mind even from mere jealousy. I'd never be able to make any more decisions. This one felt too nice to waste, after all the uncertainty that had preI Next month in IF --  E by Roger Zelazny S E  New Berserker Sfory E E by Fred Saberhagen  H The Exploration of Tomorrow's Science II E by R. C. W. Ettinger E E All in the next issue of IF -- Hugo winner for #d straight year! E # IF Dear Editor: Why, why, why did you let Farmer end The Felled Star where he did? Is there to be a sequel? Not only was it a wonderful story which he seems to have ended right in the middle, but the Gaughan illustrations for it were the best Tve seen yet by him. To end the story this way is as if Tolkien had ended The Lord of the Rings with the Fellowship still in Lothlorien! And while Ihn writing, what ever happened to David Bunch? Lin Carter's comments on the National Fantasy Fan Federation, while (in my opinion) rather unfairly critical, have brought us quite a few new members. -- Cuyler Warnell Brooks, Jr., # Paul Street, Newport News, Va. #.    Dear Editor: You have increased the price of If to #c due to rising costs. You now have #c per copy more and I hope that this will be used for improvements that are badly needed. First is the art work. Perhaps you could pay cover artjsts more, to do a better job. I know without a doubt that Morrow and Gaughan are good artists but rarely show it. Wood should do cover art too. Your art work is the worst part of the magazine at present. Also I think that full length plates, although more expensive, are much more suitable to the cover. The July and August covers show this, especially the August cover by Morrow, the first good one since March. I was expecting more pages of If with TF.O.T. gone. You are now cramped for space again, which is the reason you added pages in the first place. Moskowitz article, although good and I would like to see more of, took up space that could have been used for another story. I would like to have seen the letter column expanded and a book review added but there is no room. As it is in increasing your price you have made If the most expensive mag around and I expect more for my money, including Rogue Star, About selling more copies, I think that there is a ready market all to no knowledge of its existence. I read SF two years before I knew there was such things as Science Fiction Magazines. It was another year before I found out where to send to get them. Isn't there some way that you can make people aware of your mags? Wliy not run small ads in the back of paperbacks or somei ' where. Somebody suggested a sick the suggestion seriously. Any sick Finally, get Delany's next novel. -- Nick Grimshawe, RR ##, Alliston, Ontario, Canada.  "Most expensive sf mag around How come? There are exactly three sf mags in this country -- not counting the ones that are mostly devoted to resuscitating ancient stories, or that lean heavily on pure fantasy. All three of them cost the same price. Of the three, If has by actual count the most words of science fiction in each issue. Count them yourself if you doubt it! -- Editor.    Dear Editor: The letter column in the August If was; perhaps, one of the best to date. I agree with much of what John Goldsmith had to say about the trite techniques of some stories in our genre. Every time I see another story-written-in-letter-form piece my gorge rises.' Keith Laumer, who writes some of the best action and packs a great deal of excitement into what he turns out, seems to be plagued by the character who just happens to stumble across a spaceship disguised as a silo Spaceman in the last few issues of If) or the college student who picks up a book on hypnotism and immediately opens up another dimension just by mesmerizing' himself . Admittedly, Laumer used a similar technique in the recent The Day Before Forever, and handled it extremely well. But whatever happened to the Laumer of "End as a Hero' and "Worldmaster"? Those moved like a Van Vogt piece, chocked full of -- not only action, but -- malice, evil, mystery and wonder. Perhaps less Retief and a few more things that give more latitude than the Bondish galactic diplomat-spy will bring that beloved and prolific talent to the fore again. Agreed again with Goldsmith: I would rather see a story where -- although there are no mathmeticians and ball-of-fire young scientists who land on a world and change it from a barren ball of rock to a paradise in six short weeks -- the hero has human problems besides scientific ones and solves them along with or at the same time with the scientific ones. Zelazny is great at this. So is Samuel R. Delany. So, also some kudos. # is improving all the time. At first, I thought it was going to stand as the last bastion of the total science tale and the space opera (which all of us enjoy), but now I see it publishing both the new wave and the old and the wavelets in between. Good. Fine. And with cover improvement too. Not a really horrible cover since May of # when you evidently tried to capture the Camp faction. The sixty cents is justified certainly. In closing, if C.ere is anyone who is infatuated with Zelazny, Delany, the old Bester, or any combination thereof and would like to correspond' and is liberal, twenty-one, and, slightly insane,. please feel free to do so. -- Dean R. Koontz, # Walnut St., Apt. #, Lemoyne, Penna. #.  Good news for all Zelazny fans : he'll be back in our Hugo-winning magazine next month with a stunning short story -- for which Pederson has provided a vivid cover. See you next month! -- The Editor IF may return the book(s) within two weeks without cost or obligation if not completely satisfied. Otherwise, I'll be billed just # per copy, plus shipping costs as payment in full. privilege guaranteed, of course. For sixteen years ular feature. Now in hardbound book form. The first of a seriesupdated and divided by subjects into separate books. Facts and figures as can write them. Send today. Satisfaction guaranteed. s in your neighborhood Vpn't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it! The umpteenth corollary of Finagle' General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." mir ?famr lljrrp  O O O o o O O OO o o O O o O o O O O O O s in your neighborhood won't run off with your books if you put inside the front cover of each book... a gummed bookplate with your name printed on it ! The umpteenth corollary of FInagle's General Law of Dynamic Negatives says: "No books are ever lost by loaning except ones you particularly want to keep." # for #; #, #; #, # with owner's name imprinted nur i t;   Vol. #, No. I Frederik Pohl, Editor Robert Guinn, Publisher Judy-Lynn Benjamin, Associate Editor Mavis Fisher, Circulation Director by John Rankine by R. V. Humphrey by Phyllis Gotlieb by James White by Basil Wells by Fred Saberhagen by Roger Zelazny by R. C W. Ettinger by Frederik Pohl by Lin Carter IF published monthly by Galaxy Publishing Corporatloin. Robert M. Guinn, President. Vol. #, No. #. Main Office: #I Hudson Streets, New York. #. #c per copy. Subscription # issues # in the United States, Canada. Mexico, South America and Central America and U.S. Possessions, elsewhere #. Second-class postage paid at New York, New York, and at additional mailing offices. Copyright by Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #. All rights, including translation reserved. All material must be accompanied by self-addressed stamped envelope. The Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited material. All stories are fiction, and any similarity between characters and actual persons is coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A. by the Guinn Company, New York, N.Y. # IF  Editorial E ach year at the World Science Fiction Convention an award is given for excellence in the various fields of science fiction. The awards are called "Hugos", after the late Hugo Gremshack, who started the whole thing in #; and the most recent batch were handed out at the New York convention, Labor Day weekend. For the second straight year, the "best magazine" Hugo went to If. We're pleased about it, of course. We were even more pleased to note that all the awards in our categories came from either If or Galaxy -- best novel was Robert A. Heinlein's The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress (If), best novelette Jack Vance's The Last Castle (Galaxy), best short story Larry Niven's Neutron Star (If)... while the award for best professional artist went to our longtime rejgular contributor, who is also Art Editor of our new companion magazine. International Science Fiction, Jack Gaughan. There is something pretty soulsatisfying about making a clean sweep, and we would be lacking in candor if we denied a considerable feeling of pride. But the same candor makes us want to try to take an objective look at just how good a "best" science-fiction magazine is... and to try to think of ways to make it better. T o begin with, science-fiction magazines appeal, after all, to only a relatively small percentage of the population -- well under one per cent -- and, in an age of massproduction giantism, that places us all under a heavy handicap before we leave the post. A science-fiction magazine may put out # copies of each issue on the newsstands -- but there are upwards of # newsdealers in the United States alone; if we put out only one copy on each stand, we would be unable to cover as much as # of the outlets. In practice, even that is impossible because it's not economically feasible to put a single copy in a newsstand; and we wind up with, at best, perhaps one newsdealer in ten carrying a few copies of Galaxy or If. So getting the magazines out where it's possible for you to find them is a complex game, made more difficult by the fact that we don't always buy in the same place. A handy way around this trouble would be to sell the magazines by subscription. We're always glad to do that, of course; but with a mobile population, a lot of people hesitate to try to predict where they'll be six months or a year in the future. And our subscription prices are relatively high: the major slick magazines will spend # to wheedle you out # for a subscription, which they can manage because they are subsidized by advertisers. We can't. The point of this is that sciencefiction magazines are relatively small potatoes in the publishing patch, and it seems they are likely to stay that way. Which, in turn, means that we can't compete in payments to authors and so on with the larger media. And yet we do! Funnily enough, writers who are ierfectly capable of earning five or ten times the word-rate they can get from a science-fiction magazine will nevertheless spurn the offers of the big slicks to produce work for us. Anybody capable of making a living out of writing science-fiction is, invariably, capable of making at least twice as much by writing something else. Dozens of top science-fiction writers have proved lucratively in TV and screen writing, in selling to the large-circulation slicks, in the writing of advertising copy, publicity, all the bluechip areas of literary craftsmanship. Yet we still keep our writers, and the question is, why do they stay with us? Not for the money; not for the prestige. As a matter of fact, you are the reason science-fiction writers will take time out from fat assignments to produce a story for If or Galaxy, What we have that no other media can offer is an audience composed exclusively of people like you. In terms of I.Q., in terms of alertness and knowledgability, in terms of general high quality of readership, science-fiction readers are the class of the publishing field. And that's what writing is all about: communication with people who can understand what the writer is saying. S o what we try to do is keep the interest of people like you, because that's how we can keep the good writers who have developed in the science-fiction field and will stay with it just exactly as long as you do. Over the next few months we hope to add a few new features to If -- because we think you'll enjoy them. One thing we're sure of -- if you don't, you'll let us know. We wouldn't have it any other way... And, of course, we'll continue to do the best we can to find and print for you the top science fiction available, by the best writers, old and new, in the field. Have you been noticing, by the way, how many new writers ve're finding these days? The reason is simple : we've been actively looking for them. For five years now we've had at least one "first" story in each issue of If. We started the program with a certain amount of apprehension; we weren't a bit sure that we could keep it up for more than a couple of months. But several don stories later, we're pleased to report that the supply of "first" stories is healthier now than ever, and even more pleasant is the discovery that a lot of the new writers we've attracted have stayed with the field. Our first of all firsts was Joseph Green, now the author of a fair number of magazine stories and novels. Larry Niven was a first three years ago; now he's got a Hugo of his own. And we expect much the same for half a dozen others we can think of offhand... And that's another thing you -- the collective "you" that reads If and Galaxy and the other sciencefiction magazines: You not only read and understand science fiction, a number of you go on to write It. In fact, there's hardly a sciencefiction writer who didn't begin as a reader -- Doesn't that suggest anything to you? -- Frederik Pohl IF  Complete Short Novel Easy job! All they had to do was invade a planet, steal its secrets, destroy its power -- without a war! I C ommunications One 'asked for a repeat; and the tone of his voice, even filtered throu the intercom, was unmistakably critical. Its harmonic of doubt was echoed in every head on the net; but there was no other oken comment when Fletcher's coldly clear repetition came back. There was every reason for doubt. Petrel, after a major refit, was homing in deep space on the squadron to which she had been assigned. The distant ships were coming up in the zoom lens of the main scanner. Five craft: silver beads on a black velvet display pad. Europa in the center, a capital ship, a major unit in the Inter-Galactic Organization's peace-keeping force. Outriding in a protective screen, four pencil-slim corvettes, like Petrel herself, seemingly motionless as they kept station with the cruiser. Joining the squadron and taking her designated place was a complex maneuver for Petrel, All hands were at action stations, sealed up and buckled into deep-foam acceleration couches. The course changes involved would mount as much G as a primary blastoff from a planetary pad and would rate infinitely more subtle calculation. Commander Dag Fletcher, swinging on his gymbal-mounted couch on the corvette's tiny command island, said again, "Hold fast on the auto chain. I'll take her in on manual." He had been with Petrel for two weeks, having taken over as his first independent command after the long refit had been completed. Her crew had been together, except for three new men, through the action which had almost destroyed her and which had killed her captain. They were a powerful in-group and accepted the new top man with many reservations. Fletcher knew it would be so and accepted the challenge. No body of men which had endured what they had been through could avoid the group feeling which had emerged from it. They would have liked to see one of their own number put up to the command slot. Sam Cotgrave, in fact, who was swinging next to Fletcher in the co-pilot seat on the command island. That was natural enough. He would have felt that way himself. But he recognized the basic wisdom of the I.G.O. staff in bringing in someone from outside. Command was, after all, not a friendly game. He was likely to have to make decisions which would balance the lives of every one of them against some theoretical gain for the authority they served. Nobody could afford to risk a commander who might have to say, "Shall I send my friend Joe or my friend Fred?" But from the beginning, he would have it clear that they had drawn a spaceman who knew what it was all about. One who could handle the ship with or without benefit of mechanical aids. T he duty officer in Europa's control room had picked up the tiny speck of the hurrying corvette and was feeding deliberate observations to his tracking computers. Linked on the same net, Falcon, Drake, Heron and Hawk trainedi major armaments in concert. When Petrel was still a pea-sized globule, she was the focus of such a concentration of destructive power that she could have been dispersed as a faint nimbus of glowing gas before her commander had time to call a course change. Five computerbased tracking systems lock on and monitored the oncoming craft. An exchange of coded recognition signals cleared the air; and McCool, Euro pa's duty officer, took his finger from the button which would have called the squadron to battle stations Then he was looking incredulously at an empty screen and, by reflex, thumibing down the stud that sent urgent alarm bleeps to every corner of the cruiser. Admiral P. J. Varley, first into the ccmmand center, still sealing up, with his visor hinged back, said, "mat is it, Jock?" "New corvette joining the squadron, Admiral." "So?" "Recognition checked okay; but now she's slipped the tracking gear." "You believe she could be a hostile?" In every command center of the squadron, the same speculation about PetreVs uncharacteristic behavior was repeated. Consequently there was a full audience to see the corvette appear as though 'by sleight of hand out of the single narrow blind vector on Europas port quarter and take up her station with a flamboyant course change which must have put her crew on the extreme edge of G tolerance. Her commander's level tones came up on every net. They said simply, "I.G.O. corvette Petrel reporting for service with Red Squadron. Request instructions." Varley, mastering anger, said thickly to Europa's captain, for all to hear, "Get that fool along to see me. Commander. Stand down, if you please." O n Petrel herself there was a suspension of criticism. Probably only the navigators, Bennett, Sluman. Hale and the co-pilot himself could fully appreciate what the new commander's performance was all about. To the rest it was simply a spectacular maneuver which could have been misinterpreted by the ships they were coming to join. There was, however, a certain pride in it. Petrel was in business again and showing that she was a crack outfit. Only one man was positively antagonized by it. One of the new men -- Dave Hocker, Power Two -- had already crossed the new commander and was ready to swing into positive enmity. He thought, but did not put into audible speech, "The crazy fool. Playing to the gallery. Looking for a pat on the head from 'blood -- and -- gut Varley. All right Mister Clever-bloody-Fletcher. Watch it, that's all, watch it." But when the summons came, as Fletcher knew it would, and he was moving into the pressure lock. Cotgrave said, "Good luck. Commander." The calculated risk had paid off. Whatever Varley had to say about it was unimportant against the fact that he was one step closer to solidarity with the crew of Petrel, The sooner they were integrated as a team which would jump when he said jump, the better for one and all. His own face looked back at him through its transparent visor from the polished bulkhead of the pressure lock. It seemed the greatest irrelevance of all. Elongated by the curvature, even longer and thinner than nature had devised, it showed gray-green eyes, fair hair cut very short, grim-looking mouth. Outside Europa's lock, he hooked on and uncouple the thin nylon line which had tethered him like an umbilical cord to his own ship. He saw it whip back, spring-loaded, over the divide and he went inside, carrying with him a panoramic view of a backdrop of infinite violet-black IF depth, glittering with multicolored sequins of distant light. Incurably introspective, his computer mind filled with his own minute importance against that backdrop. It was difficult in that setting to give any value to human action at all. II V arley said, "I am bound to tell you, Commander, that your un#rthodox method could have had serious consequences. Quite apart from the danger to the squadron if you had hit a collision course. I see your point and I hope you were justified. But no more of it. Understand? There'll be action enough in the very near future to shake your crew down into a combat team. There's a squadron conference in fifteen minutes. Take a look round and get to know what Euro pa's control center has to offer. I'll reserve judgment." Dag Fletcher was relieved that Varley had gone no further. But he was under no illusion about the future. Every new commander was allowed one mistake; this was his. He had used up his slack. Next time he would be out, and that would mean no other command experience in his I.G.O. service and could carry its smear over to the civil space corporation to which he would return, if he did return, when the compulsory stint was done. R ound the conference table, Varley had seven attentive listeners. T here was his own staff lieutenant. Grant Crowford, a dark, muscular type, looking like an intellectual weight-lifter in his gray-ribbed inner suit; Group-Commander Frazer, captain of Europa, hair clipped short so that he seemed prematurely balJ. In a semi-circle facing him, Simpson of Falcon, dark, predatory, whose prototype might have sailed with Morgan; Cooper of Drake, roundfaced, usually smiling in a rictus of facial muscle which had nothing to do with benevolence; Driscoll of Heron, heavy shoulders hunched forward, hands out in front of him on the table-top. Cameron of Hawk, a huge rawboned Scot with red hair cut back to a rusty stubble. Fletcher, the newcomer, had been angled into the center seat so that Varley's eye naturally rested on him; and the address seemed to be delivered as a tete-a-tete. In point of fact a great deal of it concerned him, and he began to realize that chance had cast Petrel for a very dicey role. Varley said, "The object of the exercise, then, is to release certain I.G.O. nationals interned on Garamas. A cutting-out expedition, if you like. With the force at our disposal it would be possible to demand what we want, and no sane government could deny it; but there is more to it than that." He paused for a count of five as though marshalling the data in his mind, as he must have done often enough, before summoning the conference. He looked his part. Square jowled. Graying. Half a lifetime of command decisions had left a settled residue in the set lines of his face and his disillusioned eyes. "In the first place, Garamas is a neutral planet. You can see why its government has tried to keep that status. Right on the frontier of J.G.O. space, they are in line for any retaliation that the Outer Galactic Alliance might make. The way they have played it over the years, O.G.A. are no more anxious than we are to force the issue. It's useful to have Garamas as a point of contact. Nearly every major planet has a consulate there; it's a meeting point. "Moreover, there is a delicate political situation. The present government has majority support; but there is a very powerful fascist element waiting for any opportunity to seize control. If the government showed weakness in foreign policy that could be the pretext they are waiting for." Frazer, as a privileged listener, interposed with a question. "I take it there's been a request for release at diplomatic levels?" "Certainly. But the Garamas government will not move. They can't, with Scotia and Chrysaor represented there and watching for an opportunity to claim repatriation for their own nationals. TTiere's a Scotian ship impounded. They'd have trouble enough if they moved a centimeter from strict neutrality. "But there's another thing, and I needn't remind you that this is topline, classified material. Amongst our people in the internment sector is an I.G.O. agent who had been working in Fingalna and got out on a Garamasian freighter just before the O.G.A. powers drew together in their present venture. He has a report which must be gotten away. "Basically, that is all we are interested in as a military expedition. Recovery of the personnel is a useful cover, and we'll do what we can for them. But I say to you now that if any one of them has to be ditched, that is the way of it. You understand me?" Nods from round the table came without enthusiasm, but he knew he had made his point. "Now the cover for the squadron is that we are paying a courtesy call on a neutral planet. Showing the flag, you might say. I have no doubt that our intensions were signaled ahead. Europa and four corvettes have clearance to enter the gravisphere of Gramas in thirty-six hours from now, rationalized time. Four corvettes, checked and named on the visa. But las you see we have five." S even pairs of eyefe tracked briefly round to focus on Fletcher, then Varley was off again. 'Petrel left her refit base ostensibly for a home posting. She changed course on sealed orders when she was well beyond the reach of prying eyes. She is a bonus which alters the balance in our favor, so this is what I propose." Varley used micro switchgear on the small console let into his desk top, and one wall of the cabin was filled by two circular projections of Garamas. Left was a large central land mass, which petered out towards the circumference in an archipelago like a bead chain. The right was almost n empty, except for a roughly oblong continental mass lying along the equator. Varley moved a stylus on the atlas page before him. A dot moved in sympathy on the large-scale map. It came to rest as an asterisk over a population center on the left-hand circle. He said, "That is the capital city of Garamas. Cristinobyl. Half the population of the planet is concentrated there. The space port at Cristinobyl is about twenty kilometers outside the city. They have first-class equipment and will pick us up as soon as we cross the gravisphere line. At that time they would find out Petrel has joined the squadron. "I propose at that time to emit a succession of cobalt flares. When we arrive it can be explained that this was an accidental discharge. But for at least thirty minutes their monitoring gear will be unable to give them precise data." Dag Fletcher felt a sudden tightening of the nerves which he knew as a sixth-sense nudge that his number was coming up. He did not have long to wait. Varley went on, "Precisely at that time, Petrel will detach from the squadron and set course for this point." He stabbed at the center of the land mass in the right hand hemisphere, and an asterisk glowed to mark the spot. "She will set down there with minimum time loss and put up a total screen so that she can not be detected." Fletcher said, "Local people, Admiral?" "There are none. This is desert. You will know why when you get there. Nobody can live outside a ship without a life-support system. You will have to be very careful indeed." Fletcher thought, "That's going to make their day on Petrel. They had a long run of that on their last mission." But he said only, "Check." "The squadron will put down at Cristinobyl, and I will pay the usual courtesy calls. Simpson will find out where the interned personnel are being held and in twelve hours we shall be ready to act." Simpson lifted his dark, conspirator's face and gave unsmiling acknowledgment. Varley quickened his tone, having come to the vital part of the exposition. "Fletcher will wait that twelve hours and then seek out and sever the equatorial energy ring which generates all the power used on Garamas. The confusion in the city will be total. It is estimated that their robot fault-finding gear will take a minimum of forty-five minutes to bring in temporary services. A cutting-out party will make its way into the prison quarter and effect the release of the internees. Certain agents in the city will take care of them and pass them along an escape line. We are only concerned with the I.G.O. agent. 'Timing will be important. There is a detailed schedule prepared. Withdrawal will be as arrival. The visit is only scheduled for twentyfour hours. As we leave, we will jam the tracking gear long enough for Petrel to lift off. Any questions?" IF P etcher, conscious that as junior man he sihould have nothing to say but "yes," put an awkward one. "Will not Garamas Security immediately connect your visit with the power failure? Once down on the pad, the squadron will be limited to a defensive role. What is to stop them refusing clearance and insisting on a detailed search?" Varley gave him a straight look. "The report is basically what we came for. As you will understand, the agent does not have it with him. He will have to collect it from where it is hidden. That will be an added complexity. In the event which you describe, the agent would have to be destroyed. Once identified as an agent he would be open to interrogation methods which no one can resist. He will be prepared for that. You know the score. Commander. Do I have to spell it out?" If Fletcher was nettled by the implication, he did not show it. His face was impassive as he went on, "That is what I thought; but with Petrel available as a shuttle, not subject to search, would it not be possible to pick up the agent by scout car and take him out to R.V. with my car outside the city? Looking at the map there, I would say that a scout car could do the overland journey in three hours. In fact, we could take more of the escapees." "Don't let's complicate this issue. Commander. What you suggest is possible. We will look at it. For one only, though: the I.G.O. agent. The rest can disperse as planned. It is less than six hours before Petrel should detach from the squadron and take independent course. You can work on your amendment with my staff." He looked round the circle for any further query. There was none. "Very well. One more thing. Garamas is technologically advanced. As far as we know we can screen the ships from monitoring devices; but don't count on it. Anything with a slant on this mission, however angled, should be kept on maximum security. Even inside a ship." W ith the squadron dwindling on the port quarter, space seemed hugely empty again on the miniature scanner in Fletcher's cabin. Its loneliness found an echo in his own isolation in the hurrying corvette. Momentarily his computer mind imagined itself as a nucleus at the center of an infinity of Chinese boxes; a regression into nonexistence which was frightening. He forced himself to consider the detail of the mission ahead. After the course change, he had given Cotgrave a stand-down for two hours. That meant the crew could unseal and relax before the long chore at action stations which preceded a planetfall. There would be long enough confinement in suits if the weather in the streets on the desert side of Garamas was as Varley said. Final details had been hammered out in a long session with Varley and Frazer. They had agreed his plan and marked up an R.V. just outside the northeastern suburbs, where a green belt of parkland separated the city from its support zones. It would be a long run for PetreVs tiny scout car. Once he had fixed the sabotage angle he would take that chore himself. Lying back on his accelerationcouch bimk he ran through the crew list. Cotgrave, his co-pilot, must stay with the ship. Bennet, Sluman and Hale in navigation were all good men. Bennet would go on the breaching job, then. He'd need an engineer -- Hocker would do there. Power Two. Together with Engels and himself that would be four. Once the decision was made his mind went into a freewheeling phase, and he slept deeply until the bleeps of a stations call brought him back to instant readiness. When he was circling slowly on his miniature command island with the corvette streaking in for a planetfall, he recognized that it had been the most difficult navigational task of his career. Without a preliminary orbit and with no help from the ground, every bit of data had been won in microseconds by their own observation. Split second re-appraisal of course vectors had become an uneasy norm. Petrel flamed down in darkness like a glowing meteorite. In spite of the supposed human vacuum in the desert, Fletcher ran it as a standard military landing. Coolant gas billowed out to damp down thermal agitation before the corvette had flexed back on her hydraulic rams. Two minutes after planetfall, six men were fanned out on the ground and reporting back that the pad was clean. Farnley's voice came precise, laconic, making an objective assessment of a locale which could stand in for a traditional picture of hell: "Surface, shale and pumice. No vegetation. Gauges reading fifty-six. Suggest limit of extra-vehicular activity at ten minutes." Fletcher said, "Check. Come in, Alf." Ill D awn on the desert side of Garamas was not held up by any contour. It flooded in as a quickmoving cadium-yellow tide over flat reaches of gravel to a circular horizon. Petrel was the sole physical feature in the landscape, a gnomon on an immense sundial dish sitting astride a faint line of discoloration which was the only indicator of the buried generator ring. Dag Fletcher checked times and had his small scout car launched from its bay. Heat gauges began to bake. Bennet said, "Where do we cut the ring?" "Not here. If the power is anything like what they claim, there could be a local upheaval which would threaten the ship. Give it about ten kilometers. We breach it at #. Then the car has three hours to R.V." They followed the marker line in a sprint to the horizon, with the draft of their passage throwing up a swirl of fine dust below the hurrying car and gauges marginally dropping back under ventilation. Bennet said, "Nothing to choose. IF Only distance. Ten kilometers should be enough." Hocker said, "Tlie chart shows a ravine like Grand Canyon. What's happened to that, then?" "It was never an LG.O. survey. Could be a hundred kilometers either way." Fletcher turned to Engels at the console. "Take her up to maximum height, and we'll see what we can see." The car went up like a free-standing elevator, and the horizon reeled back to a smudgy bar. "That's it." Hovering over the gorge, they could appreciate the immensity of the project which powered Garamas. All of five kilometers wide, the vast gorge was spanned by a huge, striding viaduct. Its upper surface was the power ring itself, a tube twenty meters in diameter. It ran on the equatorial line all round the planet, like a hula hoop. Mere force of spin was enough to accelerate free particles in its composition into a centrifugal surge of energy. Simple but effective. Here, in the open, it was painted white. It was the painting that triggered off the alarm in Fletcher's mind. Keeping it in that dazzling trim meant regular maintenance. And maintenance meant men; somewhere down there would be an outpost for servicing personnel. He saw the squat, heat-insulated building built under the near rim of the gorge at the instant that Engels brought them down in a tightly banked turn on the desert. There was only one narrow slit of window looking directly out on to the gorge. At this time of day, unless there was a deliberate watch kept, there was no reason to suppose that they had been seen. On the other hand, mere common sense dictated that they should assume that they had been. At the edge there was a change in texture noticable even through the thick foam-rubber of their boots. There was an apron of fine ashlar paving and the beginning of a ramp. It was a superbly engineered entrance which melted into the lip of the gorge in complete camouflage. Zigzagging back under an overhang to the left, it led down to the blank face of a thickly insulated blockhouse. Already the suits were fighting a rearguard against the heat. Sweat running into his eyes, Fletcher said, "There has to be a way in. Look for a recessed lever." Engels stumbled on it, banging the toe of a clumsy boot on a sixcentimeter stub. He knelt down to get the full picture in direct vision through his visor. Then he squatted back on his heels like a hound dog and pointed at it with a bulky gauntleted fist. Fletcher said, "Okay, Alf, give it a shove." They waited to a count of ten, facing the blank yellow wall. W hen the opening appeared, they were not immediately aware of it. By instinct they had expected it to be central, but it appeared at the far left, against the wall of the cliff. It was a low narrow slit, leading into yellow depths, a miserly break in insulation. They dropped into a routine pattern of fire cover and movement, and by its logic Bennett arrived first at the center. Impression of a cool spacious chamber, as though deep in a natural cave. Panoramic view of the gorge through a long horizontal slit of window, triple glazed in great depth to conserve refrigeration. Fully automated system with two walls covered with computer units in serried ranks. Below the window, a long presentation table and high stools. Engel checked the air and found it good. Suit gauges had dropped to twenty-four centigrade. With visors hinged back, they took stock. Bennett said, "After all, it's only a couple of hours from Cristinobyl in a fast shuttle. No need for a permanent detail." Engels had been giving the equipment a professional eye. "Neat. Very neat. Tliere's a half hoop sprayer running out with bearings grooved into the parapet of the duct. All done by mirrors." They watched through the observation window and saw a threemeter broad hoop with a flat platform like a howdah ride out from a point just below them. Engels stopped it and brought it back. "It'll get you to the center span in under five minutes." He was within seconds in his estimate. Although used to having an infinity of space beneath their ship, there was something different about this naked contact with vertical free fall. Movement was slow and deliberate, with the shiny shell of the tube below like a skating rink. One refinement of control which eluded the distant Engels was how to shut down the paint-spraying function. Driven with tremendous penetrative force, paint was atomized and surrounded the slowly moving hoop in a fine mist. Suits turned from silver gray to a dazzling white carapace which made movement a hazard. Bennett, anchored by his lifeline and moving with infinite labor, used a vibrator to excavate an oblong cavity from the parapet. Then it was done. A calculated charge would lift out a ten-meter length of tube on a radio signal from Petrel. Fletcher called the ship. "She's all set, and we're coming in. Detonate on eleven hundred, whether we're back or not. Expect us in fifteen minutes." Why he put in that last gloss he could not tell. Everything was going according to plan. Better, in fact, than he had any right to expect, and it was there that the nudge of a sixth sense told him that it was probably too well. Confirmation came when they climbed back into the blockhouse, and Engels soused them with a solvent he had found. When their visors were transparent again, he said, "Take a look at this inspection chart. If the periodicity is as I read it, we're due for a visit today. No times. But I'd bet it would be early on. Give them a full day for whatever they have to do." Bennett said slowly, Tetrel will IF be in sight on any reasonable approach line from Cristinobyl." It had already occurred to Fletcher. She would be there all day, stuck up like a sore thumb through a sheet of brown paper. T he answer came as they were homing into the docking collar of the carport. Fie gave it to Cotgrave as though it had been there all the time. Fie said, "Call action stations, if you please, Mr. Cotgrave. Blast off as soon as you can make it. A short inter-continental flip to the coast. Northwest. Shortens the trip to R.V. and takes us out of line. As soon as you like." "Inform Euro pa?' "No." "Varley expects us to be on this ref." "Fie docs not expect us to give our presence away to the Garamasians." IV F rom the coast, Fletcher pulled the plug on his bomb. Engels turned a startled face from his console. "Negative, Commander." "Negative?" "It has not fired." "You are sure?" "Believe me, at this distance a bursting paper bag would show up." Fletcher checked times. "We can spare fifty-three minutes and still hit the R.V." FFe called Bennett. "Car away. You, Engels, Flocker and myself. We can save time by going straight on from there." Arrow swift, the small car had reeled back two hundred kilometers before Engels spoke again. Then he said, "It'll be the paint." "What'll be the paint?" Bennett was genuinely puzzled. "Going out along the viaduct, that spraying gear put a new coat over the tube. You sited the device on the viaduct, right?" "Right." "When we left there would be a drain back of surplus paint. Cover the whole bag of tricks." "But it was closed." "Very delicate gear that. Staggered vents at the back to avoid increases in pressure due to heat. Paint vapor could get in there. Just enough goo to hold back a feather-light relay. But it will be ready to blow. A slight jar should do it." "Like opening the box to see what's going on." "Like that." Fletcher said mildly, "Well, just get thinking about it. There's always a way round." He was looking ahe in the miniature scanner and went on without a change of voice, "At the same time you can think about how to get past a large troop shuttle and a maintenance tender. They're both down there by the block house." Bennett said, "So the gear there was more sensitive than we knew. It called out a posse." "Not while we were there." Engels was positive. "I got a line on every working unit in the setup. All very functional and busy with the power ring. I'd swear there was no monitor." Fletcher said, "Either way, they're there, present, now. Put us down just below their horizon. Then camouflage the car and go in at ground level." E ngels took them down in a long glide and, before deceleration was total, Hocker was outside tugging at shift bars to alter microgrooving in the outer skin and match the car's color with the desert. From twenty meters out, standing in swirls of baking dust, Bennett ran a pragmatic check on his efforts and raised his arm to signal that the car had blended into its background. Then they were running forward at ground level like a smooth invisible rat toward the two Garamasian shuttles. At half a kilometer, and still moving in without a challenge, Fletcher took the firing grip of the laser tube which ran the whole length of the axis of the small car. He knew that what he had to do must constitute an act of war and would be death to the purpose of the mission, unless it was a hundred per cent successful. He called for height, and Engels took them up in a steep climb. Then he said, "Right along the spine," and they went down like a mosquito homing on a succulent flank. Belatedly, two guards spilled out from the transport, both in clumsy refrigeration gear like a collection of oblong boxes. Carbine fire using glowing tracer lifted lazy lines which the car crossed in a succession of hammer blows, then the laser was breaking up the shuttle. It appeared to melt, plates turning to molecular scrap. A puff of black smoke came from its rounded bows, laced immediately with vermilion flame. Fletcher switched to a wide-scatter paralyzing ray and sprayed the area. Engels was down beside the maintenance tender. They spilled out, spoiling the effect of special branch cops making a raid by the comic clumsiness of their bulky suits. The tender was empty. Hocker sprayed a line of holes through its console. Fletcher went forward on hands and knees, like a fat grub, and shoved out an extensor periscope to look over the rim. Down below, the narrow door was shut; but two highshouldered Garamasians stood on either side of the ramp, with squat carbines held incongruously across their chests. He appeared briefly in their limited visual field and, as the muzzles were lifting towards him, sprayed them once on a wide angle. They leaned back on the block-house wall, too stiffly clad to fall down. Bennett shoved over the stub lever, and the heavy door began its ponderous swing back. A round-headed Garamasian engineer. out of his salamander kit, showing the typical, lanky highshouldered development of his ethnic stock, was making a wide gesture with narrow hands which made it clear even to an observer from another world that he was telling them that he knew there had been intruders in the hive. He was still working at it when IF the beam fixed him that way like a butterfly on a pin. Fletcher said, "Shovel them over to the back wall and clear that spraying line. Where does it load with paint?" Engels the expert said, "It doesn't need any more paint. It only did half the crossing. It's got a fair load still on board." "Empty it out. Fill it with solvent. Set it to move out. We can be on the way to the R.V. before it frees the relay." Hocker asked, "Suppose it doesn't work?" "Keep your fingers crossed. Because if it doesn't you'll have to go out yourself and tap it with a hammer." "Why me?" "I'll overlook that, Hocker, this one time. For now you can go up top and keep an eye on the desert. Don't question anything that moves. Just blast it." "Check, Commander." W orking methodically, Engels had cleared the sprayer and was rinsing its saddle tanks with solvent. When it was refilled he ran it for ten meters and then brought it back. "Solvent goes out faster than paint. But paint capacity is enough for a full trip, so I reckon this will make the center. All set. Commander." "Let it go, then. How long do you say?" "Five minutes." "I can't afford to risk the car. We'll get over the horizon and head back immediately after the blowout" As the car rose, they could see the length of the viaduct, an engineering marvel in its own right, carrying the glistening white tube across the gorge. Fletcher imagined it going on below the land surface, crossing seas, the patient work of skilled men. It was the first time he had been cast in the role of saboteur, and it went against the grain. Whatever report was to be brought out, it would need to be red-hot to justify their action. On the other hand, there was something about the snug neutrality of Garamas which was unacceptable. No planet could be uncommitted. Those that were not strong for the law were in reality working against it. He recognized that he was finding excuses. Every human mind has a built-in necessity to think well of itself. This was his rationalization. Short-circuiting the internal debate he said, "That's far enough. Put her down. One minute to go." When it came it was different from any other explosive sound he had ever heard -- even allowing for the filter effect of the listening gear. There was a high-pitched scream rising and cutting off as it passed beyond audio frequency. Seconds later the car rocked in a Force Nine gust, bringing a hail of dust and small trash. Every dial on the console went into a crazy spin as though under a freak magnetic storm. Then there was silence. Fletcher said, "Back, then," and the car went up in a steeply banked turn. For a hundred meters from the point of fracture, the huge tube had peeled free from its supporting viaduct. On the far side, the force had thrown the broken end down, and the tube sagged away towards the floor of the gorge. The block-chouse end had reared up like an elephant's trunk and was holding an uneasy stability as a high, swaying tower. Only two or three meters of the center span of the viaduct had been breached. It was a neat job of demolition. But Fletcher saw it as a wound in the ring of solidarity forged by professional men. He felt like a murderer who would now give much to staunch the flow of blood. V XTobody in the block-house appeared to have moved. Engels said, "They'll have pinpointed that break as of now. There'll be a trouble-shooting gang on the way." They left the Garamasians parked round the walls like ritual sacrifices in a mast aba. Hocker, last out, took a minute to pose the end one in a nose-thumbing gesture towards the open door. Then they were streaking over hot, brown desert for the R.V. With just over two thousand kilometers to go Engels locked the car on its maximum speed just below the sonic ceiling, and its auto-pilot took over. Now they were across the first strait, leapfrogging a chain of islands that were not much more than atolls, with a still magenta sea washing white crystal beaches. The car raced on, a slight, hurrying shadow across empty shores. Engels said, "Mainland coming up. Commander. If the chart tells no lie there's nothing on this course except automated farm spreads." Even they were enough. An unfamiliar machine crossing the homestead would be enough to have the resident agricultural engineer grabbing for a video. "Level out. Set for half a meter over hedge height. They'll have some trouble with identification at this speed." Now it was useless to look for topographical features. So close to the ground, they were virtually flying blind in a dizzying welter of melting shapes. With fifteen minutes to go, Engels dropped them neatly in an irrigation ditch, where they sat across the gap like a custom-built bridging plug. The chart showed less than five kilometers to R.V., but they were now moving into the outer ring of commuter development. Top executive country, isolated house units surrounded by private parkland. They took time off to unseal, methodically stacking the gear in roof slots above each seat. The tiny car seemed to double in inside room. Even then there was only a cubic meter of space in the loading bay for their passenger. With ten minutes to go Fletcher said, "Okay. Take it up. Steady now, pick your way through the trees." Almost at once, they found an outer-ring monorail and crossed it, hugging the ground beneath a hun dred-meter span. There were four IF kilometers of rolling parkland without sight of human life before Engels swept over a long gentle rise to meet the monorail again, hidden in a shallow valley, the next spiral in. They were on to it before he could alter course. Too late he saw two stationary shuttles dead ahead, with Garamasian top people looking out from a row of crystal viewing ports. Round heads set like ornamental roundels on narrow, high-shouldered trunks. Blue tunics of the top executive grade, with narrow stand-up collars which completely covered rudimentary necks. Lidless eyes, dark disks of polished obsidian missing nothing. Except one, facing the window in sleep with optical facets turned away and dull gray blanks presented to the familiar view. As Engels dropped them down in a crash stop where their microgroove skin texture would give them almost complete camouflage, the bulletlike silver shuttles began to move. F etcher said, "They've cleared the fault. Smart work that. Must have sent a big party out to the desert. They'll be looking round for who did them dirt. Now this lot will be falling over each other to get to a video. Move it along, Alf. Don't worry about being seen," Engels took them up to a meter over tree-top height, and for a moment the car was as still as though it had been painted there. It began to turn as he lined it up on the direction beam. Then they were homing at full thrust on the tiny glowing mark of the R.V. set up on the miniature navigation spread. Fletcher had time to think that technological refinements were all right, but when you came right down to it, you got no greater accuracy than you fed in. If Bennett was a fraction out in his original plot, they might very well be going all out for a local gendarmerie. The thought led him to take a checking run along the co-ordinates, Bennett's voice brought him back to direct vision. Now they were amongst buildings. Blind to the road in the Garamasian fashion, grouped round inner courts, inward-looking. Typical of a desertfounded ecology. "There she is!" A small scout car identical with the one they were in was sliding to a halt beside a group of eucalyptus trees. Engels said, "That's Hawks car." Then they were alongside, and Cameron himself was crossing the gap in full space gear with his visor binged back. His hair seemed more aggressively red in Garamasian daylight, and there was no doubting the urgency in his voice. "Nice, Fletcher. Right on the button. As well, too. There's a big thing on. Our ploy worked out, the agent's here; but there's borderline revolution in the city. Fascist lot taking over. Very dicey situation all round. Just as well you're taking this agent out; we've already had a check from security, and they'll be back. Anyway, see you." While he spoke a small figure, bulky in an I.G.O. suit with the identity flashes of a communications lieutenant, had taken Bennett's hand IF and been hauled up into the cubic meter of cargo space. Fletcher said, "Right, Jock. We've been seen, by the way, so the hunt will be on. For the record you could claim to have been out to the outer mono rails on a sight-seeing trip. See you." Engels was moving them out before the hatch closed. They saw Hawks car spin on its axis and beat away in a dragonfly flash of iridescence; then they were running on a direct course at maximum thrust, ten meters above the highest building. Hocker was concentrating on a circular scan to check for Garamasian atmosphere craft. Engels was fully committed with the pilotage chore. Bennett began a recheck of his navigational set for the home run, reasonably concerned that they should make a first-time hit. Consequently it was Fletcher, the drone, who had time to chat up the inmate of the loading pen. He turned in his bucket seat, prepared to knock on the man's helmet to signal this civil intent and stopped with his clenched fist two centimeters from a neat, platinum blonde head. C opying the style of her new crewmates, a silvery Fingalnan girl had wriggled, chrysalislike, out of her borrowed gear. She was sitting crosslegged in the lotus suit, wearing a taut, lime-green inner suit which could have been sprayed' on by a miserly makeup man, who had to do a couple of hundred of them with one small can. Making a display of her cosmopolitan expertise, she leaned forward with outstretched hand in Earth-style greeting. He automatically took it, reminded at once that the Fingalnian metabolism kept its children's blood a good five degrees hotter than his own. It was like holding a warm polystyrene glove. She said in English, "Xenia, Commander. Delighted to meet you, I think." Low-pitched and husky, contriving to build communication on a carrier-wave of warm enthusiasm as though she had only been bom for this day, her voice triggered a quite disproportionate reaction. Three more heads whipped round, and the car banked sharply under Engels's convulsive grip. Gallant Hocker said, "Stone me, it's a she-male. Sitting on that ribbed floor is no good for a delicate spirit. Come and sit with me." He even held out his hands to lift her over. "That is very thoughtful of you, I think. But I am still on duty. Some other time, I think. Meanwhile, hello." Her wide open green eyes had never left Fletcher's, and what she saw there seemed to bring her to a decision. Hocker was ready to go on with his ploy, but Fletcher said coldly. "Save it. Lieutenant. Get on with that scan, or there may not be another time." To Xenia he said, "Forgive us for being surprised. We were expecting a man. It is not easy to believe that anyone so beautiful is an agent." Is that complimentary or not, Coanmander? Espionage is necessary. This weport I have may save many lives, I thinik." He remembered that Fingalnians had particular difficulty with the "r" in Earth languages. In Xenia's hands the defect was a positive gain, but it made it even harder to take her seriously. "Of course, I was not under-valuing your work. You have the report?" An amused gleam in the green eyes told him that she appreciated what considerations had triggered off that question. "Yes, it is vewy small It would need to be, and any confusion was entirely on his side. "Don't fwet about the weport, Commander. It's been on my mind a long time. I haven't lost it yet. How much time do we have?" "Three hours to reach the ship. Then we wait for the signal to lift off. Perhaps two hours after that. Has to key in with a jamming transmission from the squadron so that Petrel can get out unnoticed by their monitoring stations." They had crossed ithe first monorail circuit and were well inside the executive belt. She said, "This weport could be made out of date anyway by your action in getting it out. The fascists have been waiting for a national cwisis, and you've made it. I know you had to do it this way; but it's just what they wanted Fletcher said, "Perhaps the government will believe that they chose the Squadron visit as an opportune time and engineered the breakdown themselves -- hoping that I.G.O. would get the blame." "You are clever. Commander. That could happen. So it would pay them to see that you get away. Perfect scapegoat for them. If they get power, they'll definitely take Gawamas into the O.G.A. sphere of influence vhether they declare it openly or not." "And the more dangerous if not openly." "Exactly so, I think." "Who are the fascist leaders?" "Mainly fwom this awea. Industwialists with something to lose if Gwamas adopts the full I.G.O. charter on human wights, I think. Their headquarters is the Gawamasian Agwicultuwal Club. That will be the command post for any putsch, VI F etcher turned away. Outside, they were crossing the last of the suburban belt, and the precisely squared out food-production areas rolled away to the distant horizon. Spaced with mathematical exactitude, the headquarter buildings of each section stood out like plotted quantities on a lattice. One of them would hold the action group which wanted Garamas to move back to medieval political thinking. It would be easy to take the view that it was no business of his. He had a clear mission and no mandate to move a centimeter outside it. Indeed, any move other than to get Xenia and her report to a place of safety was definitely against orders. He could be executed for failure. So IF what? What indeed was he thinking of? Xenia's fragile beauty dedicated to a dangerous trade had presented him afresh with the issue of responsibility which was never far below the surface of his mind. A gloss from a theology tape of his college era quoted itself in the clear tones of a female recording clerk. Not dissimilar from Xenia's -- which was probably the grapnel which had dredged it up. No lisp though and a lot less sexy. "To him that knows to do good and does not do it. To that man, that is sin." Xenia's warm, light hand on his shoulder supplemented the communication possibilities of her voice, now as intimate as it could well get. They might have been alone in the car. She said, "Exactly so." Bennett, the only one listening, looked puzzled by an apparent non sequitur, Dag Fletcher met her eyes, and the tiny nod of her head confirmed his questioning look. In addition to her more outstanding charms, she was a telepath. He wondered briefly how she had reacted to unspoken speculation about where she was keeping the report. Saw her smile again and deliberately fell back on learned skills to keep thought out of the transfer areas of his mind. His success in so doing got him a credit. She said, "You're vewy quick, Commander. But too late. I agree with your position. It comes down to individual wesponsibility. You can't twust any wuling clique. Not one. That's what I like about I.G.O., mainly staffed by civilians like yourself doing their stint. Going back to ordinawy jobs, so they know they'll be at the weceiving end of any wegulations they make. Here, now, there's a chance for us to do something about the setup." "What do you mean?" "I know where the Agwicultiiral Club is. You could dwop a small neutwalizer on it." She read his instinctive rejection and its grounds. "You're thinking about me again. I can look after that old weport. If we do this, it won't be so important anyway." "If it's their command center, they'll have guards and some military potential. It would be an unjustifiable risk." "Individual wesponsibility, commander. Now you know the opportunity we have, you can't just shwug it off." He saw that they were deep in the food-producing belt. Not even a collection center in sight in any direction. He was acting at an instinctive level when he said, "Take us down. There by the purple hedge." A giowing asterisk on the chart spread marked their position. Xenia leaned tautly forward and extended a slim silvery aim to point out the location of the headquarters. Hocker had not said a word, but she said, 'To save you wasteful use of time. Lieutenant, the answer is no. Just concentwate on the mission." He was visibly taken aback; but the look she got needed no telepathic power to interpret. She had not made a good friend. Bennett, who had pieced enough together to know that a detour was being considered, said, "That's two hundred kilometers. Not all loss; triangulated from there it only means about another one-fifty on the total journey. Minutes only. It depends what has to be done when you get there." Dag Fletcher faced the personal decision at a level not accessible to Xenia's interception. She waited with the rest for it to receive a clothing in words. He said, "Alter course. Take a look at that reference. Make the last ten kilometers at ground level."  She had the general drift of it, however, when the first two words were out in overt speech, and warm arms went quickly round his neck in a brief hug that left an impression of unexpected strength and a lingering trace of an exotic and unfamiliar scent. It took less than five minutes before Engels set them down in the shelter of a squat irrigation unit housed in a white adobe cube. They could hear the rhythmic beat of a pump working like an isolated heart. Fletcher sent up a pencil-slim periscope and took a long look at the blank wall of the club premises. It was indistinguishable from any other headquarter building which sat in the center of each precisely calculated admin district. It lay half a kilometer distant, across a fidd carrying a mauve, heatherlike crop of proteinrich erichthonius plant. The field went all the way round on the right flank. Left, a low hedge ran directly to the corner, dividing off another production area, lying fallow and showing up as a tidy spread of yellow ochre corrugations. A darker line amongst the furrows claimed his attention, and he was deciding that it was a surface road leading to the house, when Xenia said, "All these places have direct access underground to the monorail circuit. Supplies come in and pwoducts go out that way." Movement from the distant road made a period. A long, olive-drab hovercar, slug-shaped, flying a maroon pennant, appeared briefly on the periphery of vision and swept out of sight at the side of the building. There was an urgency about it which confirmed in his mind that they were at the right place. If that was so, however, the small scout car would hardly be allowed to hover overhead choosing a good target for a depth charge. No doubt at all, the plain brick facade would conceal a fortress. Fletcher 'flicked the eyepiece shut and set his periscope to retract. Before the tip had clicked softly into its housing, he knew what he had to do. He said quietly, "Hocker, get yourself outside and cut a hole in this wall. Go in and top the pump." When Hocker was busy making a circular incision with a vibrator from the car's external tool rack, he went on, "Whatever else they do here, they must keep the district working."'Hocker disappeared through his seal hole. Xenia was leaning forward breathing warmly down Fletcher's neck, a distracting intimacy which made him too much aware of her physical presence; uncomfortably IF underlined by the knowledge that she knew he knew she knew. The pump went out. Two minutes later a clumsy, angular silvergray maintenance tender was rounding the blind corner of the facing wall. Engels said, "Efficient, whatever else." The tender was lightly made, with huge inflated wheels. It rolled over the crop without causing damage. It stopped on the opposite side, and they watched the scanner for a closegrain picture of the developing scene. T wo Garamasians jumped down from the high seat. A comedy partnership. One very tall, the other shorter, a geometric design of two balancing spheres. Gray coveralls with maroon armbands to show membership of the nationalist party. Breast-pocket flashes to show status as agricultural engineers. The fat one carried a cranked key like a winding handle and shoved the business end home in a slot which was invisible to the watchers. Then he began to turn it. Dag Fletcher had seen enough. He was moving silently out before the man had completed one revolution. They saw him check the setting of his laser for its wide-angle stunning beam, and then he was through the hole in a smooth flow of effort. Whatever the inside of the pump room was like, it could not have been immediately obvious that there was a hole in its protective shell, because both men went in. On the count of five Hocker reappeared at the hole. "Stay here with the car. WeTe going to have a look inside." He pulled a strap pouch from its ceiling clip and put in it two charges from the rack. "If we're not back in fifteen minutes you're to set a course for Petrel. Take off according to schedule." He was sliding hack the hatch when Xenia hazarded vivisection by slipping through the narrowing gap to join him. Standing at ground level, the top of her head was well below his shoulder -- a miniature Boucher, now seen to be wearing a broad flexible metallic belt over her minimal green tights with a short, narrowbladed knife hanging from it in an elect rum sheath. "Not you, midget." The knife was pricking into his navel before he could lift a hand. Something very clear in her green eyes warned him that she would just as soon push it right in as not. He thought, "Why should I sweat? Let clever bloody Fletcher sort her out." He simply shrugged and finished closing the port. Hocker said, "That little silver hint followed me out. I told her to get back. I reckon she must have thought better of it and done that." "Okay. Let's get on." Sitting on a high bench seat, Dag Fletcher found that he was facing a completely unfamiliar set of instrumentation. The buggy was however quietly vibrating, so its power pack was in service. Out from a plain bulkhead under the windshield, two rods, one white and one black, curved out and seemed to fall naturally to the hands of anyone in the driving seat. Methodically checking out possibilities he tried to move them up, then left, then right. It was not until he pulled them both down that there was a soft click of engagement, and they were moving straight forward. Now he could feel lateral play and tried moving his left hand out. The buggy swung on its tracks turning right. Then he got the trick of it. Both down for straight on. Left or right, feed power into the drive on that side, so that the buggy spun on the slowing wheels and went in the contrary direction to hand movement. Once grasped, it was easy; and he made a fast run across the field to the house wall. From underneath, it was a towering slab of masonry. Solid as a cliff. Too huge to be so featureless. They rounded the corner in a controlled spin and trundled on. Precisely in the center of the side, the approach road ran into the thickness of the building as though into a mine, Fletcher spun the buggy into the entrance, and they saw fifty meters ant lighting ports in the roof and painted white. There was no operator in sight, but as they approached a maroon and white check barrier began to lift like a portcullis. The buggy was obviously recognized and given official welcome by a scanning eye. At the end of the run they came out into a central courtyard. The external severity of design was belied by a profusion of color. The entire floor was paved with red and white squares of ridged tile. In the center was an oblong pool with violent color patches of merope bushes apparently growing from its indigo surface. Entirely of transluscen brick, the inner wall glowed with light. At ground level open colonnades led from the courtyard into the building. Right, the olivedrab car was drawn up at a semicircular entrance port. Left, a more utilitarian working area was laid out with parking space for farm plant. Beyond the pool, a number of military-dcsign hovercars with the maroon pennant of the organization were drawn up. F letcher swung around to join the farm vehicles. A round head lifted from some desk-bound chore and watched incuriously as he ran into an empty bay. But he could hot expect that they would get far without a challenge. In answer to a question framed only at mental level, Xenia's voice came from beneath the buggy. "Their operations room is under the main block. Through that portico and down." She wriggled free from the angled chassis members which had supported her and stood beside them. It was useless to make anything of it. Fletcher said, "You seem to know all about it." She appreciated his realistic acceptance and went on. "These places are all on the same plan. If you've seen one, you've seen the lot. And they all have an underground IF complex. Stowage and civil defense. The internment building was just like this." "And of course you had the run of it," Hooker said. "I was a very pwivileged pwisoner." "I'll bet you were." "All we have to do is to get inside the building. Anywhere at all. I can show you." Only twenty-five meters distant, the farm office block was the obvious target. Reading Fletcher's line of thought, Xenia said, "You want a diversion. Why not send one of these buggies over the yard to cwash into that tidy line? The end one. When I was underneath I could see the contwols move. I'll do it from underneath." His conditional agreement was still unspoken, when she had slipped away under the wheels. Seconds later they heard the end buggy begin its destructive run. It skirted the edge of the pool, picking up speed until it was waddling along at a good thirty kilometers in the hour. Then it was doing its best to climb over the middle car of the waiting line. Reaction was immediate and positive. Suddenly the courtyard was full of high-shouldered Garamasians. Conformation that this was no simple farm center came at the same time: All the new arrivals were in military uniform and carried machine pistols. With all the movement in the direction of the crashed vehicle, Xenia led the way under the colonnade and through the nearest entrance. They were in a circulation corridor which ran all the way round the building. Without hesitation, she picked an arched opening leading off and went through it like a silver rabbit on the home run. Ramp on a spiral leading down, lit by oval ceiling ports. At the second turn, a Garamasian hurried up and was blasted by Hocker with a yell frozen in his gullet. They left him leaning against the wall with his eye disks rolled to gray blanks. Xenia said, "Each floor follows the same plan. We need to be over the other side." They were running now, footsteps beating a light tattoo on the parquet. At the second corner, she said, "Round this one there will be a beam barrier." If there was it was not apparent. Smooth white walls ran away to a darker-hued distant rectangle where a right-angled turn brought in the opposite wing. Hocker said, "Stalemate, then," and crumpled forward to the tiled floor. Xenia's lips were framing, "Don't worry about that weport," but it was never uttered. Men in olive-drab uniform, moving like trained soldiers, were swarming in the corridor where sentry niches set in the walls had sliced open. Many hands made light work of carrying the aliens to a point halfway down the corridor where a wide opening on the left led to the underground operations room they had come to seek. They passed a low-ceilinged crush hall and were taken into the lofty neive center itself. Round the walls, men in green uniforms looked round indifferently before turning again to the winking lights of a communication network. Operators, shoving magnetized disks along route lines on a wallsized operations map, rested on their select group round the board-room table in the middle of the floor to take executive action. A paunchy type at the head of the table looked up and said in a harsh, grating voice, "Set them in the analyzer. Quickly now. There is no time to waste." W hen his head cleared, and the convoluted, white mists rolled back to extend his vision outward from a still black center, Dag Fletcher was on the specimen's side of a large lens looking up into the eye of a busy researcher. He was lying in a convenient coffin-shaped box with his neck on a padded rest. Then centimeters from his face the curved glass of the lens filled the aperture from edge to edge. Electrode plates pressing on his skull both prevented any movement and set up a tension Which was on the threshold of destructive pain. It was, with all its strangeness, recognizable enough. Any advanced culture in the galaxy could set it up, one way or another. He was hooked to a bug that could tap the inmost secrets of his mind. Whatever he thought, bawdy, humorous, treadierous, kindly, cruel, picayime or full of ultimate truth as an egg, was all there for them to see. A mind nakeP and ashamed. Working at it, however, he filled its surface channels with frivolity. Xenia, since she was nearest at hand in experience. He set himself to do an identikit portrait which they could throw on their screen if they liked. Straight, aristocratic nose, level brows, serious mouth of a voluptuary, small round chin. Being a mathematician he recognized that like nature she was profoundly symmetrical and proportionate. A number sequence. #. #. #. #. #. #. #. #. # developed as he considered the claims of her body structure to satisfy the strict requirements of the Golden Section. A grating voice penetrated the privacy of his box, speaking in Garamasian. From somewhere left he heard Xenia herself giving a helpful word. "Are you thinking about me, Dag? That's nice." Then the harsh commentator once more, this time in the lingua franca of the galaxy, "It is no use. Commander. We already know all about your ship. Your lieutenant has given us all we need to know. Unfortun: ately I do not think we can catch up with your patrol car, but there is still time to have the ship intercepted." Xenia said, speaking quickly, "But they can't do that, Dag. It would show their hand too soon. We have only ourselves to worry about and that..." Her voice cut off in IF an involuntary screen. Some linguist had caught the drift of her argument and used direct means to cut it off. More Garamasian gobbledcgook, and he felt the container he was in was beginning to move. From being horizontal, he was now tipping forward, pivoting at a point somewhere near shoulder level. Finally he was upright, with weight taken largely on his feet, but a certain spinestretching tension still present from the head stall. Now he could see the operations room through the distorting lens in front of him, like a view through the wrong end of a binocular. At the head of the table, seemingly at the end of a long tunnel, the man who was calling the shots looked like a piranha. Underslung jaw, open, rubbery mouth, bland noseless face, bloated trunk stretching away below the shiny table top. I t was not a lot better when the glass screen was swung away and he saw that the man was less than ten meters distant. Sitting next to him like an A.D.C. was a lean, bluewhite Scotian, motionless, reptilian eyes looking away left, no doubt at the more rewarding tableau of Xenia. On the table in front of them was the pouch with their charges. Fletcher said, "Garamas enjoys neutral status. You have no right to imprison I.C.O. personnel. If you have any charges to make, your government will deal with the matter." "I can tell you, since you will have no use for the information, that we are the government. The neutral status you speak of will not be of long duration. There is no future for Garamas with the mealymouthed I.G.Q. alliance. I am sure our Scotian friends will be very glad to have two serving officers with knowledge of I.G.O. affairs. They are very skilled at breaking down reluctant contributors. Destructive, but thorough." Mind-racing to find any small advantage, Fletcher was only half listening. Under pressure, heightened by stress he thought he heard Xenia whispering quietly from somewhere left. Then he recognized that the voice was in his own mind. "Dag. We're on the same frequency. Think with me. These mind taps are very finely balanced. Together we can send a surge back up the spout that might wreck the box. Think with me. Very angry. Destroy. Destroy." Piranha-face was going on. Another quickly choked gasp of pain from Xenia brought all the anger Fletcher could feel into his mind. That and admiration for her which was involuntary and independent of sex. Silence from the floor and sudden quick movement from beside his box. Movement that was too late to throw a circuit balancer and stop a surge back along the delicate wiring of the cephelograph. There was a small plosive pop and an acrid smell of a burned-out dielectric. Fletcher was at the same time conscious of a bonus which they had not planned for. The failing circuit had tripped the relay which fed magnetic grips holding heir wrists and ankles. He sensed simultaneously that Xenia too had recognized it, and he said directly :o her mind, "Good girl. Now! Both together -- out and grab for King Log!" He had a confused impression of many heads turned inward to watch the developing scene and the movement of one guard quicker off the mark than the others. Tlien he dived for the shiny table top and went along it on a sliding tackle that brought him to its head. Piranha-face had opened his fish mouth and had struggled to his feet when the Earthman's arm clamped round his neck. Fletcher heard a confused struggle behind him and expected at any moment to feel the hammer thump of an old-fashioned slug tearing into his back. But he had twisted round his victim and got his own shoulders against a solid wall before anything had a chance to develop. He saw that Hocker, slower off the mark, had been grabbed by two Garamasian guards. While he watched, one of them brought up a machine pistol and clubbed it on the side of his head. Hocker went limp, and they let him fall. Xenia, a flash of quicksilver, was beside him. Her lime-green inner suit had been reduced to a fragmentary monokini, and blood welled from two long incisions from throat to navel. In her hand she carried her own small knife, stained to the hilt with blood which was not all her own. L eaning against the cephelograph box she had left, was a tall Scotian. He was still moving slowly and turning as he fell. Reptilian in metabolism though he was, he needed air, and he was currently trying to get his ration through a severed throat. When the circuit blew he had been looking elsewhere for instructions and had left Xenia's useful knife sticking in the fleshy part of her shoulder. Pulling it free and putting it to instant use had been pure therapy to the silvery Fingalnan, and she was actually grinning like a pleased cat when she joined Fletcher. Her knife pricking into the skin over the Garamasian's heart was a better argument than Fletcher's neck : lock. It also allowed freedom of speech. She said, "Tell them to stay where they are or you will surely die." "What do you hope to gain? If you kill me you will die yourselves. If you do not you will only delay your deaths for a little time. There is no escape for you." Fletcher reached out for the strap of the pouch and swung it clear of the table. Movement toward them was very gradual, and Xenia sensed it as a mental thing before it was physically obvious. She said, "Tell them to stand still," and shoved the blade a goal. Dag Fletcher was fumbling in the pouch bag and came out with one of the demolition charges. Then he hung the bag by its strap on the back of the leader's chair. IF speaking in the lingua franca he said, "I have set this now for impact detonation. I only have to drop it. Unless I can take it with me, we shall all go up." Cold, black eye disks held his own for a long pause. Xenia said, "That's all wight, Dag. But I'm sorry it had to end like this." "Don't be. Not many people have such an opportunity to go good." "To that man that is sin?" "Something like that." But under the surface of his mind, that structure which could present a thousand units of information in any living second, there was a majority voice that was less than satisfaction and viewed the move into oblivion as an unqualified evil in itself. Not least in this self-preservation lobby was the fifth-column, flank-turner Eros. Without deviating pressure at the knife point she put a warm hand on his arm and said incomprehensibly to those who could follow the Earth language, "I wegwet it too." P iranha-face stirred uncomfortably. He spoke out in the lingua franca, "Let them go. They can not get far. The bomb might just as well go off outside." Fletcher backed towards the exit making unmistakable mime that any attempt to rush him would cause his ten-centimeter cube to hit the deck. Xenia seemed to take her knife out of its pincushion with real reluctance. At the door, Fletcher stopped and said, "Can we do anything for Hocker?" She said, "I'll twy. But frankly he does nothing for me. You'd be better without that one." There was one undamaged carafe on the conference table. She took it and poiued it over Hocker's head. When he stirred, she said without any womanly sympathy, "On yoin feet, Lieutenant. This is no time for lying about. Quickly. Quickly He allowed himself to be led out like a dumb ox, shaking his head from side to side and seeing only a confused double-image view of the set. In the corridor they were watched out by a double row of silent guards. The word had gone ahead that the' were to have free passage. As they 'began to go up the ramp. Hocker stumbled once against Fletcher's shoulder, and a sigh of audience participation went up from the spectators. Fletcher steadied the box and centered it afresh on his flat palm. Xenia said sharply, "Watch him, Dag. That was partly intentional. They tried a two-way feed on me. Maybe they planted some ideas on our fwiend." Up in the courtyard, Fletcher quickened his pace. When they reached the line of waiting cars he was going at a jog trot and his silvery A.D.C. running with a pennant of blonde hair flying back. He took the first car in line and spent a count of ten looking at its instrument console. Then he was moving it off its pad to the entrance. Hocker said, "What's the hurry?" "We have aboout fifteen seconds to get out." "How come? What's the trouble?" "The second demolition mine. I set it down there in the bag. Give or take a second." They were at the beginning of the tunnel. Hooker slid open the hatch and was out, running back across the courtyard. He shouted, "I must warn them. The plan will fail." Fletcher looked back. Three cars had sidled out of the line and were following up. There was no time to go back. Xenia was out. She steadied herself against the side of the machine, and her arm flicked like a whiplash. Hocker fell forward, face down on the tiles, with her knife sticking out of his back. Then she was inside again, and they were surging down the narrow way with the portcullis lifting to let them through. Outside he gave it the gun, and they circled behind the sabotaged pump house to check that PetreVs car had indeed gone. They saw another green shuttle storm out of the narrow cleft, then a circular puff of fragmented debris rose from the invisible center of the building complex. A seismographical ripple traversed the purple field of erichthonius. The pump house took it like a dinghy hitting the wake of a hydrofoil and rocked to its foundations. Xenia said, "Look. Dag. We did it." H e spared a second's vision from a struggle to get full power out of the unfamiliar machine and saw that it was indeed so. The great walls were fissured from top to bottom and leaning in. Even as he looked, a widening rent began to spill out a ragbag of artifacts. The single figure of a man appeared momentarily' like a scrabbling beetle on its crumbling surface before a rising dust pall obscured the site. A line of holes punched through the fabric of their car just above head height. That brought him back to the business in hand. The Garamasian car had used time to gain height, and was coming in from the port quarter in a murderous power dive. Dag said, "Lie down on the floor!" He flung them in a steeply banked turn which brought the car to the edge of its potential. The other pilot was committed to his dive, and they had a broadside view with a face in every lateral port looking up. The clatter of a machine pistol at his back brought Dag's head round to the inside of his own steeply tilted car. Xenia had found it in a ceiling clip and was swiveling in a tail-end-Oharlie gunner's seat. He thought, "She's unbreakable. I'd rather have her at my back than any man I know." Into his mind her voice said directly, "Only at your back? That's not very complimentary." And he' knew that the heightened awareness of shared danger had put the telepathic link on a two-way net. But habit dies hard. He asked aloud, "That report. You still have it safe?" Falling in with ihis choice of medium, she said, "You do go on about that weport. I haven't got it at all. IF It's in that little car of yours. I hope they don't cwash it or anything." Then she was raking the following car in bursts of fire that put molten metal asterisks along its bluff bows. "Any luck?" "No. Armor there in fwont. Only the woof vulnerable, I expect. Still, it will make them more careful, Four lengths separated the hurrying cars. Already they were crossing out of the farm belt. Dag Fletcher put everything out of mind except the navigational chore, and Xenia could pick up only fragmentary clues of the high-speed calculations that were going on in his private computer. Professional to the ends of her fingertips, she knew better than to interfere in a task which only he could perform. Except for an occasional transmission of a kind which she thought might be good for his morale, she kept out of his mind. Using a formidable visual memory, he projected on to the unfamiliar chart blank all the mathematical detail which had cluttered the presentation table of the scout car. In ten minutes he had pin-pointed Petrel and set up a course line. Some of the gear was very good. Absorbed in the technology angles, he made notes of some features which could well be incorporated in the I.G.O. scout cars. As a final act of confidence, he brought in the autopilot and after a full minute, with the car holding course at undiminished speed at its ceiling of eighty meters, he left the pilot's seat to take a look at the view. As he went down the center aisle between the seats, he realized with a sudden feeling of guilt that he had not heard from her for some time. When he got there, he knew why. X enia had strapped herself in to the swivel chair and blood from the Scotian's long, exploratory dig had welled out in bright slow rivulets. Head back, so that her silky, blonde hair hung straight away from her neat head. Throat round and firm. A small pulse beating in a taut hollow below her collar bone. Breasts a pale silvery tumescence against the harness. She was unconscious. He loosened the straps and laid her flat in the aisle. The pursuing craft was still there, a good ten lengths astern and five meters below. Assuming the cars were equal, he would have the edge, because Garamasian had a capacity crew. Ten at least. Best part of a thousand kilograms. He took a look at the console and found the auto pilot was holding the course without a microsecond's deviation. Above each pair of seats he found a shallow locker recessed in the roof and methodically worked his way round the car. Medical kit, water tubes, ration packs. He spill them out on to the seats. No clothing. But it was warm enough and would be warmer before they reached the ship. Fingalnans anyway were not clothes conscious and only wore them for decorative possibilites. With a pad of lint and some lukewarm water he bathed away congealed blood and drew the delicate silvery skin together with continuous strips of skin-graft strapping. He broke out enough lint pads to cushion her against the ridged floor and as a refinement, on purely esthetic grounds, spread her hair in asymmetrical fan like a pale aureole. She was as well out of it for a time. Transfusion of plasma could be carried out in Petrel s minute sick bay. That would be a treat for Sholto Quinn, the ship's medicine man. The car hurried on. Now he was checking for seconds of leeway in the schedule. Cotgrave would give him every chance, wait to the last minute before taking Petrel up; but he was bound by his orders and no return could reasonably be expected. They were over the desert, and heat was notching up. It was providential that he had moved the ship to the coast; a short journey from the car might just be tolerable at the coast site. At the viaduct even seconds without a life-support system would have been too long. Then another thought struck him. Cotgrave would see the approach of two Garamasian craft as a threat. A ship was very vulnerable at the instant of liftoff. Even small-arm fire could upset her delicate balance. The co-pilot would be inclined to blast them as soon as they were in range of the main armament. W hen Petrel showed up, a slender spire on the horizon, they had a two-minute lead on the following car. Above the maroon pennant, Dag Fletcher had broken out an improvised wihite rectangle. He slipped control out of the autopilot's capable hand and began to circle the ship, noticing the wreathing steam spiraling from heating rocket tubes minute more. Then he was going down in a steep dive and ploughing into soft sand twenty meters from the tripod legs. Even in the hurrying car, making its own ventilating draft, and refrigeration doing its best, it was hot. Sweat was glistening on his bare arms and running unchecked down his face. He saw the freight hatch open and a small elevator platform begin its descent with a bulky figure in full gear which could be Engels. Cotgrave, with his finger on the button to blast the car, saw its hatch slide back and Fletcher's tall figure step out onto the burning sand. Across his arms, like a drugged victim being delivered for a burnt offering to Baal, was the limp, silvery figure of a Fingalnan girl. Bennett from the navigation console said, "That's the agent, believe it or not. It looks as though she's bought it." Dag Fletcher forced himself on. Behind him he heard the disintegrating roar of the Garamasian car, caught by Farnley as a plumb target on the hairlines of his main laser. But he was walking through fire and heard it as an irrelevance from another world. It was the furnace mouth. Heat that was shriveling his skin. Boiling his blood. Then hands were holding him up, and the elevator was retracting. Slowly, slowly. Too slowly. He was fighting for breath. It seemed only seconds later that IF he was Stirring in his own acceleration couch in his cabin and calling the command island. "Commander to One. Course detail." Cotgrave said, "Glad to have you back on the net, Commander." A miniature of the main scanner glowed above Fletcher's head, and he saw Garamas as a plate-sized disk with the land masses in clear definition. Cotgrave said, "Sixteen hours to R.V. Permission to stand down." "Check. Carry on." S ixteen hours. Xenia would have to transfer to Euro pa. Facilities there for an extra body. And a very popular body she would be. When he went into the sick bay, Quinn said," She's doing very well. I'd say she was just about indestructible. Anyway I'll leave you to talk to her; she tells me there is classified material to discuss. But don't excite her, now." When he had backed out of the tiny crucible, Xenia sat up in her narrow cot. In the familiar surroundings of his ship, her silvery nudity was a greater surprise. Too late he remembered that his thoughts were not his own. She said, "So you think the warning about excitement ought to have been given to me? That's nice. Sixteen hours. That isn't long. I have to give you a big thank you." Nobody in that cubicle could be far away from any other occupant, and it was easy for her to reach out and put her arms round his neck. "How do you feel?" He was doing his best to keep a conversation going. "I feel fine. You feel fine, too. I do like you, Dag. Will you come and see me when you have a furlough?" "Where will you be?" "I have to do a session at I.G.O. headqaurters. It will be a long time before I go out on another mission. Prepawation takes a long time." "Certainly I'll come and see you. I owe you a lot, Xenia, and so does the service. That was your show and you did well." "You sound like a schoolmaster pwaising a pupil." Before he could reply, her lips, very warm and soft, had effectively closed his. But the mental link began to open, and he found that he could follow her argument in a communication that used no words, but made sense at one remove from conventional, overt symbols. It went something like, this is a military unit. You are putting me in an impossible position. There is no such thing as an impossible position. Just a greater challenge to ingenuity. Quinn said you were not to be excited. I know better than any Earthman about whether I want to be excited or not. Don't wriggle about, you'll start bleeding again. Lock the door. No. Then I'll get up and do it. He opened the door and looked out. Quinn coming back along the IF corridor. Fletcher said, "She's okay, Doc. ni sit with her until she goes to sleep." Then he went inside and thought-. fully dropped the toggle on the catch. T he squadron was moving like a silver chain on a velvet display pad, in line astern, with Europa in the center of her corvette screen. Petrel came up on the microsecond. "Permission to rejoin." "Permission granted. Admiral requests Commander Fletcher and I.G. O. agent to proceed aboard flagship." The beginning of the end. Swing out over vacant interstellar space with Xenia beside him on the line, already an anonymous figure. Report delivered in the command cabin. Xenia indifferent of the impact she made, coldly professional again. Even the smallest coveralls found on Petrel were sloppy on that small figure. Valley said, "Success must carry a certain commendation. But I am bound to tell you. Commander, that your actions could have had serious repercussions. I must ask you in the future to stay within your brief." He fingered the small gray capsule which contained Xenia's report. "We have succeeded in our mission, and there is a bonus in the destruction of the fascist nerve center. Government forces have re-established control, and it is given out that the destruction of the power ring was part of the takeover plan. I shall mention your part in it in my dispatch. We are bound now for I.G.O. H.Q. A short leave for all personnel, I understand, before the next mission." Swinging back over the black depths to his ship, Dag Fletcher recognized her mind penetrating the vacuum to speak to him. Tenuous at this distance it was no more than a warm promise, a feeling of wellbeing, a frail human alliance at this instant of time in the immensity of galactic space. Time indeed was still on their side with another meeting, and that, when rightly considered, was as far as any reasonable man would wish to. go into the future. He sent back as a signal, the signal, the single, ubiquitous service word for acceptance of any situation. Boxeez Naron might not be such a bad planet -- if .only it weren't invisible! iC A planet without vegetation, surface water, or life. A leaky spacelighter without fuel. Food for six months and half that much oxygen." Mai Harker shook his head hopelessly. If that doesn't spell murder, Esme," he went on tonelessly, "name what it is." The yellowish dusty wastes of Naron, fourth planet of Kyor Twelve, were coming up swiftly to meet them. The outer shell of the clumsy (little craft was warming rapidly, so steep was their course; but they had no spare retro fuel for a second approach. Esme Jannot's pleasant round face was placid. In all their four years together aboard the planet-mapping Von Ark, he had never seen her upset or excited. His partner, Ilda Nolan, had nicknamed her "Doll." She was blonde, blue-eyed and tall. It angered Harker that she seemed so little concerned. The small spacelighter was being tossed about now by the outer shreds of atmosphere despite the measure of stabilization afforded by the rudimentary wings. "There is atmosphere, Mai," said Esme. "Somewhere there may be a rift or oasis that will support life. We have three, perhaps six, months to find it. Remember, we did not map aU Naron." "And in the meantime Dorn Tate will be light-years distant -- with my partner!" Harker beat his fist against the cramped cabin's insulated green matting of resilient synthetics. "That is the heart of the matter," said (the big woman strapped into the control seat at his side. "Tate has stolen your parner. It is not the loss of the Von Ark or being exiled here that troubles you most. It is the ithout of Ilda alone with Tate." "Yes," Harker agreed savagely. "You knew that he too loved Ilda," she said calmly. "You could have avoided this ugly crisis by freeing her at the last six-months' partnering." "We neither of us wanted that." He scowled over at Esme Jannot. "The thought of her partnering with Tate was revolting to us both." "And to me as well, Mai. Yet I was his partner for these four years past. It was for the good of the ship and its personnel. Men and women need companionship and understanding. We understood that when we signed for the voyage." "I realize that. What I, what we both feel, is not anything logical. It is something atavistic I suppose. We love one another." He struggled for words. "We belong." The ship, under semi-automatic controls, leveled off, cooling its superheated skin. They saw the dead yellow surface now from a height of less than a score of miles. And there were no gaping wide canyons or sunken depressions visible where they might eke out a miserable existence for a time. Only jutting ridges of barren black rock, some of them thousands of feet in height, marred the waterless wastelands below. Esme Jannot's voice cut across a long silence. "And because of your selfishness, and Ilda's as well, we were drugged and put adrift near this dead world." She smiled. "I am not condemning you, Mai. I only wish someone, sometime, had loved me in the same way." Harker glanced quickly over at the big woman's face. He had caught a trace of wistfulness, perhaps of regret, in her voice. And then he realized that they must ground on the surface witMn a scant handful of minutes. "What do you say?" he asked. "Should we land on one of the mesas or near its base?" "Water goes down, Mai. I vote for the lowest area possible." "Agreed," cried Harker. T heir final goal was a huge mass of stone, perhaps a hundred miles across and roughly star shaped -- a seven-pointed star. The dark bulk was flattened on top, and a mile-wide rift cut it into a larger and a smaller segment. Here, Harker reasoned, there might be possible openings into a subterranean cavern or caverns. The tiny spaceligbter came down across an upeurving bed of pale sand, heading toward the split mountain that would be their final resting place. The sand's friction would slow them, he hoped, but not too much. The ship met resistance, a hundred feet or so labove the sea of sand. There was a hissing burbling rush of sound. He felt the ship slowing. And now the sand was closer under them. Fifty feet and then twenty. They felt the sand bite into the hull. The lighter shuddered. Sand sprayed outward and upward, obscuring their vision momentarily. Yet there was no sound transmitted through the ship's tough outer skin. It was like plowing through a dense fog. Came a rending crash. They were thrown forward in their resilient harnesses. Harker regretted not having Esme don the lone spacesuit, a battered, much-patched outfit. If the lighter was holed they might die almost at once. And the ship was broken. The alien atmosphere was seeping into the cabin, diluting the stale stench of the air trapped there. "It's good!" cried Esme in a strangled voice. "Smells fresh and ciean! Green growing things! Fresh earth!" Harker released his pent-up breath. Deadly gases might be masked by a pleasant smell, he knew, but he had to breathe. And he took a second deep breath, savoring to the full a deceptive sweet fragrance. In a moment they might both be dead or dying, but for the moment he relaxed and was thankful for their safe grounding. He forgot Dora Tate, the arrogant graying astrogator, and his tiny, darkly beautiful partner, Ilda Nolan, a captive aboard the spacer. The sound of Esme Jannot's unzipping and unpopping (the contrd chair's harnesses aroused him from this pleasant lethargy. He set about freeing himself. Golden light from the sandy waste outside poured through the broken transparency of the nose blister. He went to the sealed entrance port and spun the safety lock's handwheel. The round laminated thickness of the first lock, and of the second, this a trifle warped and sticking, slid into their grooves; and the way outside was open. "It feels," said Esme, as they gained the outside, "hke Mother Earth after a summer rainstormi Yet this is desert. Dead!" Underfoot the sand felt springy and almost sticky. Harker looked down, puzzled, and then looked over at the woman's comfortable dark shoes. Like his own their soles rode an inch or better above the grittylooking soil. Something invisible and compressible covered the dead land here at the base of the star-splattered loom of the mountain! Something like this had caught at them as they were coming in for a landing! And the air was rich and heady with the scent of moisture and growing things! He heard the breeze whispering! Harker bent over, his hands probing into the nothingness beneath. He felt the crispness of grasslike growth -- the coolness of recently watered roots and stems. A hoarse bird sang. "There is vegetation here, Esme!" he cried out. "Why we cannot see it I do not know." E sme was lying on her stomach when he turned, her face buried in the invisible sod and her fingers digging into the seeming emptiness. She sat up, an unwonted excitement in her deep blue eyes, her cheeks flushed. Harker saw her, as though for the first time, as a vital attractive woman. Why had he thought her dull and bovine aboard ship, he wondered? That other Esme Jannot, placid and uncomplaining, bad been a mummer's masking. "There must be water, animals, edible plants," she said, her eyes glowing. "After a time we may be ib; able to see them -- to live off the country." "I don't know, Esmc." He frowned. "Plant life that cannot be seen. It must be too alien in structure for our bodies to assimilate. It may not even be carbon-based." His tongue was clumsy he knew. Words and thoughts tangled together and spilled out. He knew that it was the delayed shock of losing his partner, being exiled forever here on Naron and now the discovery of possible reprieve from eventual starvation and thirst that made it so. "But we have a fighting chance now, Esme!" he cried out. "That must have been water, or something akin to it, that the lighter plowed through. Let's analyze some of it." The big woman smiled agreement. Side by side, their light rocket rifles outthmst like a blind man's probing cane, they went down the easy slope below the ship. Twice Harker tripped over an unseen jut of brushy growth, once with a painful raking and piercing from the thorns or needles of the Naronese plant. The roar of pounding surf strengthened. Before them the ydlow sand darkened and seeincd firmer in texture. They were walking on a hardpacked beach of grassless sand. And they saw sand that moved. Now it came uphill, and now it slipped backward. Into this moving sand Harker stepped and felt fluid come swirling up about his ankles. He scooped up a palmful of the receding wave and tasted it. Definitely saline. He spat it cut. A larger wave staggered him, and he started to fall. He caught himself. after a bit of ungraceful arm waving and hopping, and rejoined the woman. "We're in business -- I think," he said. "It feels like sea water. Once we have tested it and distilled a few gallons, we will know better." W as it only four days? Four days on Naron meant a few minutes over eighty hours -- the day being approximately twenty hours long -- but it seemed much less. They had repaired the gaping wounds of the spacelighter as best they could and found a second daytime refuge from Naron's great golden primary in a cliff-sheltered valley. Here they had found a small stream and a pool of fresh water, with several stands of straight-boled timber along the creek. It was here, on the three or four hundred acres of arable land, that they decided to settle to await an improbable rescue. With improvised hooks and lines, baited with bits of promine steaks or colored lures, they had fished the pool -- hooking three and four pounders. Unhooking an invisible fish has its problems they had learned; but later on, the fried beauties taldng on a misty reality with their coatings of synthameal and cooking oils, they had earned a tasty reward. Esme's specialty, photography, had proved invaluable. The dozens of pictures, taken at random, revealed a fertile land of forests, meadows and a horizonless sea to the east. They had discovered slender deerlike animals and fat, gray-haired brutes, hogsized, that fed on roots and nuts under the smooth-boled trees. Even yet, familiar as he was with the half-mile trail from the ship, Harker was continually running into low boughs or crashing into the trunks of trees along the way. And it was disconcerting to step on a writhing, snakelike something and leap backward. Yet your eyes revealed only a sere yellow wasteland. He tried to put Dda from his mind. When he imagined her alone with Dorn Tate, his anger and despair sickened him. Yet he knew there was nothing he could do. They were And they would never return. He and Tate's discarded partner must end their lonely days here on this mysteriously veiled planet of Naron. Esme was an understanding woman. She respected his grief and could keep her silence. She left him to his own brooding thoughts and did not interfere in any way while he was steeped in bitter self pity. He realized what a pouting child he must appear and forced himself to labor harder. A cabin had to be built and a stockade across the narrow mouth of the valley to keep out the hidden animals of the ghostly forests. Experiment showed that wet mud from the pool, smeared on trees or leaves, remained to mark their presence. He experimented with sprays, outlining their immediate surroundings. He used dyes to stain the water, the resultant contents of the valley pool having an unreal cottony appearance. And he set out generous cuttings of the edible, oxygen-freeing hybrids that the space! ighter's air-reclamation system, utilized. They grew luxuriantly, Harker was busy and, increasingly, almost happy. He knew that the buxom woman who shared his exile often felt the same. He caught her singing softly as she worked, not once, but a dozen times. The sun was coloring their skin, and its warmth caused them to shed the superfluous burdens of emergency coveralls, standard aboard ip, and don shorts and brief tunics. He discovered that Esme was a big woman, yes, but beautifully proportioned and strong. Ihere was nothing flabby or needlessly sagging about her body. To most men, he thought, she would be very attractive. But not to Mai Harker. He loved Ilda Nolan -- and he always would be faithful to her. H e was spraying the trees about the little clearing where they had decided to build. The spray was a fine mist of aluminum paint and carbon scraped from the tubes. It outlined, in a darkly silver sort of shadow-image, the immediate surroundings. Silvery sward underfoot and silvery trunks and leaves arching overhead. His supply of the paint was strictly limited; only the heart of his projected farm could be marked. But there were substitutes. "Mai!" screamed Esme from the direction of the pool. He could not see her, the rocky lip of the pool's edge was nine or ten feet above it, but he knew she had gone there for a bath and, perhaps, to hook a fish later. He ran, the improvised hand IF Bprayer yet in his grip. Now he saw her clothing, abandoned at the pool's invisible edge, and then, across the hundred-foot bowl, he saw her struggling, her kicking body being impelled up the rocky slope. She was fighting an unseen something, or things, as savagely as her great strength allowed. Harker's needle-spitting hand gun was at his hip, its needles armed with paralyn. If he fired Esme might well absorb several of the paralyzing slivers. More than five or six meant death. And the metabolism of the unseen raiders might remain unaffected by the drug. He ran swiftly after Esme, circling the pool and tripping over hidden undergrowth as he did so. As he neared her contorted body, something that sounded heavy and vicious went hurtling past his ear. He ducked, stumbled and was aware of the tank of compressed air and the nozzle and paint cylinder that bumped ground before he recovered. He depressed the stud, showering Esme's naked body and 'the invisible enemy equally with an aluminum mist. The spray caught three hulking shapes, humanoid in general shape but larger, thicker and wider. One of the trio held Esme's arms locked behind her, but the other two were advancing on Harker. Both imperfect shells of animated silver swung huge clubs, and a savage roar of anger and savagery went up. A lashing club grazed his shoulder. He had the needier out by that time and was sewing metallic slivers across their middles. The other club struck the ground, so quickly had the paralyn acted, and the two kidnappers were helpless. Harker rubbed at his left shoulder's numbness, feeling the sting of bruised flesh, and sidled around Esme and her captor seeking a clear shot. The bulky biped hurled Esme aside, bellowing, and rushed Harker. An unseen fist slapped the needier, even as it started to spew out its deadly hail, from Harker's grip. He felt a huge, strangely hard body slam into his own; 'and he went down. A snarling mouth came down at his throat. He jabbed an elbov into emptiness, and the barely discernable head fell away momentarily. He pumped his fists, he had dropped the sprayer even before the hand gun, into the springy armorlike body of the aborigine. He heard Esme panting out words of courage. Then the needier hummed, close at hand, and his Naronese assailant collapsed upon him. "Mall" she was crying as she rolled the helpless creature out of the way. "Mai, are you hurt?" H arker grunted, raising himself to a sitting poslurel He moved his neck and arms -- stretched. His shoulder felt numb, and be was gasping for breath; but he was unbanned. He saw surprised tears in Esme's eyes -- although after her close escape that mit be expected. "Yeah " he managed "I'm fine." She was examining his bruised shoulder, forgetful of her own undod state. He could see that it was an ugjy bndse, wiith blood oozing through the abrasions, but his arm was not too badly affected. "Thanks be," Esme said. "I was so afraid that you would be killed. And I couldn't face that." She shivered. "This horrible place -- these unseen monsters -- the desert!" She was sobbing her arms around his neck, her tears wet on his bared shoulder. Gone was the calm, almost robotic, crew member he had known for several years aboard the Von Ark, This was a warm-blooded, sympathetic queen of a woman. Her tanned fair flesh was warm and soft against him... Harker pushed at her gently. He stood up. "We had best get back to the lighter," he said. "No telling how many more of these brutes are prowling about." Esme shook her ithick chestnut curls into order with a toss of her head. With the back of her hand she brushed the surplus tears away. She was smiling again, suddenly, her usual calm capable self -- and this despite her recent outburst. Harker was proud of her. While Esme went for her garments around the pond's rim Harker sprayed one of die helpless creatures more completely. Its color was of course not apparent, but it appeared to be four-to, rather than five-toed, and its hands boasted an equal number of digits. The apishly thick-bodied brute was close to seven feet tall and completely hairless. The legs were short, thick and bowed. The huge-jawed skull, capped by six flexible crestings of fin-like ridges, was equipped with the huge, flat-slabbed teeth of an herbivore. Harker understood now the apparent hardness of the native's body! The external body covering was a natural and flexible coating of bony plates almost chitinous in character. This strange carapace of linked plates gave way to more normal flesh on arms and legs, but even this was coarse and scaly. "Ready," called Esme. "Let's go to the ship." "One minute," Harker cried, gathering up the sprayer and one of the crude, hide-wrapped splinters of igneous rock that the natives carried for weapons. "We must come back with a camera," he said as he reached her side, "before they recover..." T he lowest level of the city was a hundred yards above the plain. The city was the product of centuries of boring into a drum-shaped mesa's softer rock layers. Now the city's avenues and passages honeycombed the mesa's several miles of diameter. Four elderly Naronese, in an exterior chamber on the thirtieth and topmost level, linked minds amicably. "Unless we free their eyes," one declared, "both aliens will be destroyed by the Lynks or the tagants. And a new defence against aliens should be devised. They see through pictures." "We must not let the offlings die," agreed a second, "but the mother ship did go away, suspecting nothing. These two were left behind to die. So I say let us release these two from their visual blackout but retain the planet-wide shielding." "I agree with Hedl," the third IF native's more deliberate thoughts came through. Retain the desert planet mirage, but free the two castaways." "They are much too interesting specimens to permit their wanton destruction," the last of the quartet agreed. "I too vote with Hedl. Yet I also agreed with Adro that a second line of defense against possible future invasions be considered. The next aliens may not be as primitive and peaceful as these Earthmen. Nor as amenable to mental suggestion." "Even with these aliens our only complete success has been with their vision." The thoughts were flooding together now. "Natural blocks against control like the brutish Lynks of the forests... Yet we can read their thoughts... Not control them... Children in many respects and cruel as only the young .  . They can be taught wisdom, Hedl... And they can teach us as well..." Thoughts battered, splashed and churned. Eventually an agreement was reached, and the word went out nese spread thinly across the globe. The male and the female alien were to be permitted full vision at once. That a few isolated citizens misunderstood or were asleep or mentally disturbed was to be expected. To them can be ascribed the vague sense of unreality felt by Esme and Marker at first... T hey were entering the lighter's outer lock when the curtain was abruptly lifted. The sward underfoot was a blending of purple and green, the tightly curled underleaves a paler hue. The trees of the forest were paler, on the whole, than Terrestrial vegetation; but then the pale golden tinge of the heavens, opposed to the blue of Earth, made for strange lighting effects. They saw for the first time -- excluding the color films Esme had taken, the grazing herds on the plain to the sea's red-sanded brink. "What happened?" cried Esme. "Like scales dropping from our eyes," mused Marker. "Some ancient writer wrote that. And it is so." Unconsciously diey had come together, arms interlocked and bodies touching. It was a need for mutual reassurance -- a fear of the unknown that needed to be faced jointly. "See those creatures, like tigers or lions, prowling along the ridge," Esme cried. "Covered with blue fur, or hair, large as a horse! And the ruminants. Like bison but bigger..." "The cat beasts are called tagants. The ruminants are satas. And the brutish bipeds you defeated so cleverly are called Lynks, They are degraded offshoots of our own race," There was no voice. Marker was sure of that. He turned about, peering. Esme was not smiling nov, her face pale. There was a sound of footsteps on the grassy cushion at the spacelighter' stam; and two giants, scarlet-plated with shading to a delicate yellow and white along the belly and chest, strode into view. "Forget your weapons, Mai Marker and Esme Jannot," the bodiless voice cautioned. "We could have destroyed you long ago had we desired." Harker nodded somewhat ruefully. "I expect you could," he agreed, his eyes taking in the finely fitted harness of leather and metal and the sword and the dagger hanging from it. "We do not kill needlessly, Mai Harker," the alien thoughts came. "Only the Lynks and a species of sea serpent resist our control. The weapons are for them and for misguided men of our own race." "And what of us?" Harker demanded. "Are we your prisoners? Now that we can see you, what is to happen to us?" "You are offered this valley and the others surrounding. You can never return to Earth. You have been deserted by your leader. Here you 'and your children can dwell in comfort." Harker swore half-heartedly and spluttered. Esme reddened. "We are not partners or mates," he said. "My partner was stolen. I am faithful to her. There will be no children." The thoughts of the Naronese were amused. "Waitand see," they advised. And then: "we will come again tomorrow." They turned and walked swiftly back the way they had come. Harker and Esme looked at one another uncertainly. A small doubt was gnawing at Barker's brain. The two Naronese apparently knew something that he did not suspect. He recalled how Esme had flushed and looked away. Forget it, he told himself, and get to work on the stockade and the cabin and at the planting. Now that you can see your surroundings your sprayer is not needed. WorkI But there was something wholesome and fine about Esme... T hat night he was battling with Dorn Tate. It was a hopeless battle from the first. Tate was older stronger and more experienced. And watching, laughing mockingly at his feeble efforts, was his eight-term partner, lovely, dark Ilda Nolan. In utter despair he cried out and heaved the crushing bulk of Dorn Tate from him -- and awoke! The hopelessness of that nightmare battle carried over into his waking thoughts. Helpless here on Naron, while his beloved Ilda was born lightyears away. What good to live on? There was no hope of rescue. The first colonizing expeditions to follow the route they were blazing would come a century or so later, and this desertplanet would be avoided. He groaned aloud. "Is something wrong?" Esme asked softly. "Everything, Esme," he said. In the pale light of Naron's larger moon he saw her across the control cabin, sitting up in her emergency shock hammock. "Why go on living?" Esme swungherself out of the hammock and came over to his improvised cot of cushions and webbing. She was angry, he saw as she switched on the ship's side lights. He had never seen her like this before. Her hair all tousled and her face... "For four years," she said sharply, "you kept one partner aboard IP ship. You were faithful to her as our code of ethics requires you to be." "You know that, Esme. You were the only other woman aboard the Von Ark "Had Ilda partnered with Dorn Tate you would have respected that relationship?" she demanded. "Why, of course, Esme," Marker agreed, "but Ilda would never have partnered with him. We were -- are in love." "I would never had spoken of this, Mai, had we returned safely to Earth. Believe me. But now I cannot let you go on destroying yourself... I love you too much to let you..." "You -- me?" "Since we first boarded ship, Mai. But I knew how hopeless it was. Ilda wanted you, as well as Tate." "What?" Marker's hands clamped Esme's firm shoulders. "You say she wanted -- Tate?" "And had him. They were lovers from take-off, Mai. You never suspected. You trusted them. And I knew the ship's mission came first. What good to hurt you?" "You lie, Esme!" He shook her savagely. "This is a story you manufactured. You lie!" His fist knotted. He drew it back and struck at Esme's face. But his blow went wild, somehow, missing her completely. Instantly he was ashamed and shocked at. his instinctive brutality. "You invented it?" He was pleading. "It is true, Mai. Think. You must realize I am not lying. Ilda knew that you would obey the code if she were partnered with Tate. But he was not that honorable. "Until he changed and demanded that she leave you. It was after that that we were set adrift near Naxon. She had lost her control over him." "I will not believe." "You must." It was a powerful inner voice. "She tells the truth. We, of Naron, know the truth. Believe!" And Marker believed. There was utter conviction in the thoughts that had come through so strongly. A thousand memories came briefly to him confirming the ugly truth of his partner's calculated unfaithfulness. Dimly he sensed the withdrawal of the mental linkage with the Naronese. His mind was a dull ache within his skull, a bruised numbness slowly wearing through pain to a measure of peace. Esime was beside him, her arms tender about him, her voice soft. Gone was his anger at her. He felt shame and bitterness. His love for Ilda, her professions of love -- all mirages, even as the desert world of Naron had been false. The reality was better. The operation had been clean and complete. Instead of a sickly dream he possessed something real and lasting at last. He took his partner in his arms, the moonlight of that alien world bright upon them, and it seemed that this was a homecoming to their      Business could hove been profitable -- but something was eating into the profits! I a transcribed message to Skroot, a planetary ecologist of great reputaC C loomer?" asked Charles Dartion and little sense of humor. Skroot win Skroot. adjusted the glasses which rested The president of Planetrade Cortoward the tip of his nose and careporaticn nodded. With an understandfully read the typewritten sheet. It ably worried expression, he handed said, "Have had to move into reIF  Novelette OF mote areas to collect. Demand exceeding supply. Still no new seedlings. No success in transplanting. No success in locating seeds. Help. Usher." "There's our problem," Conners said when Skroot looked up from the message. "The planet Gloomer has only one valuable resource, namely, Tastybushes. We have over a hundred collectors out there now, and we should probably send another fifty to keep up with the demand. But, you re it for yourself. We're running out of Tastybushes. R. V. Humphrey, author of this month's "first" story, is a field archaeologist, photographer and lab technician at the University of California, where he is studying for his doctorate in Archeology. When not digging in prehistoric coastal Indian sites, our author enjoys shark fishing. "What's even worse! Tastybushblossom extract has become our biggest product, and if the things disappear we'll probably go bankrupt. Three or four more years like this, and we've had it." Tiny tears rolled down Conners' cheeks as he gravely considered bankruptcy. "That's why we called you, Skroot. Find out why they're dying off and fix it. If you can save them, you can almost name your own price." Skroot read the message over again and queried, "Just what is this Tastybush-blossom extract used for?" "About ten years ago we began marketing it as a soft drink flavor. We never dreamed it would become so popular -- or so profitable. Our sales doubled every year, and up to now we've expected to make some real money on it. We're the only suppliers, you know. But last year we discovered that no young Tastybushes were sprouting in any of our collecting areas. The old bushes died off, and there weren't any new ones to take their place. Now we have to go out into the swamps to find them, and that gets expensive, believe me. Skroot took his dog-eared notebook from its holster and began taking notes... "You know," Conners continued. "This is the first new flavor in several hundred years. Before they finished exploring Earth, every time they discovered a new continent or something a new flavor came with it. Like chocolate, when they discovered America. Since then, nothing until the Tastybushes. This is the only really new one that hasn't turned out to be either poisonous or habit forming." Conners grinned and chortled, "And we're the only suppliers." Skroot nodded his head in agreement. "Everybody loves it," Conners announced. "Some people drink six or seven bottles a day. And every bottle is worth a profit of three and a half cents." He leaned back into his chair with evident satisfaction, but his smile turned into a scowl as the thought of bankruptcy returned. "But, as goes the Tastybush, so goes Planetrade Corporation." S kroot removed his glasses and thoughtfully cleaned them on the front of his shirt. "My fee," he said quietly, "will be one cent per bottle, for a one year period, commencing one year from the completion of my task." "What?" Shrieked Conners, half rising from his chair. "That's robbery!" "Well now," Skroot replied placidly with a shrug of his shoulders, "It's not as bad as all that. If I don't solve your problem, naturally, there will be no charge for my services." Conners' voice increased in volume and pitch. His face became redder with every second. "Do you realize how much money that is?" IF "Yes, indeed I do, Mr. Conners," replied Skroot, not the least perturbed by the outburst. "And it's cheap at the price. Of course, there are other alternatives. You could engage someone else or pay me a flat fee whether I should succeed or fail or you could put some of your staff people to work on the problem, or you could always just sit and go bankrupt." Conners winced at the thought. "You bandit," he said. "You know very well there's no one else with your qualifications, and we've had our staff on it for two years already with no success, and we figure that you'll probably fail too." "I'm really too old to go hopping about on the planets at all, you know. I should have retired many years ago." "With the fees you charge you could retire after a single job." Conners deliberated for a moment, rapidly calculating on his fingers. "Okay, one cent per bottle it is, but only if you completely and permanently solve the problem." "ni have my attorney draw up the contract," Skroot said, "Of course, I am assuming that all of your records on the planet will be made available to me." "Certainly," Conners responded with no hesitation. "Anything that might help. But unfortunately there isn't much we can give you." Skroot looked puzzled. "It was my understanding that Planetrade Corporation always made complete and systematic surveys of the grass under its jurisdiction." "Well, yes," Conners said slowly. "That's true. But there were, well, certain problems involved here. We really weren't able to accomplish very much." "Exactly what problems are you referring to, Mr. Conners?" C onners noticed Skroot's suspicion and hastily said, "There's nothing dangerous there, you understand. No hostile aborigines or large carnivores or anything like that." Skroot's eyes narrowed. "Are you attempting to conceal something?" "No, no, certainly not," came the denial. "It's just that the situation there is difficult to explain. It's the weather. You might say it gets, well, a little thick sometimes." "Thick?" asked Skroot. "Thick?" "Well, yes," explained Conners, pursing his lips and looking at the ceiling. "No violent electrical storms or hurricanes or even a breeze for that matter. It's just... thick." He thought for a moment then added, "Precipitation is high; the visibility is correspondingly low." "That doesn't sound like much of a problem." "On Gloomer it's a problem, take my word for it." Conners leaned forward and cupped his chin in his hand. "For instance, our radar survey of the planet clearly showed a small range of mountains about # feet high not more than twenty miles from our trading post. They represent the highest point in the whole hemisphere. But would you believe it, a crew of geologists looked for the things for three months and couldn't find them." "Couldn't find them?" Skroot asked incredulously. "Indeed? An entire mountain range? Most unusual." "That's what I thought at the time." "Well, then," Skroot inquired, "what about a biological survey? Plants? Animals? That sort of thing." "We're not much better off there. Planetrade Corporation made a big grant to a university to send a crew of experts out to Gloomer to make a complete survey. We wanted another Challenger Expedition. And besides, it's tax deductible." "What happened?" # ##ell," began Conners, "it took VV three years to organize the thing. There were thirty specialists and enough gear to keep them going for five years. "The geologists quit first. Right off the bat there was that thing with the mountain range; then it was another two months before they found even one little stone to work on. And that one turned out to be a piece of concrete that was accidentally transported from Earth. "Another one of the crew was an ornithologist. One of the world's leading authorities on woodpeckers. But as it turned out, there weren't any woodpeckers on Gloomer, so he spent the rest of his time sitting and writing his memoirs. "The ichthyologist had a better time of it. For a while, at least. Out on Gloomer, with all that rain and all, there are sluggish rivers scattered all over the place. We don't know where they come from, or where they go, or how wide they are; but there are fish or something that live in them. "So he tried to catch a few with a net, which didn't work. Then he tried a hook and line, but that didn't work either. He lost his tackle as fast as he could throw it in. One day he became desperate and rigged a line out of some #-pound test towing cable with a hook the size of a small anchor on it. He baited the thing with five frozen chickens and tied the end to a big concrete monument the surveyors put in. Whatever it was that he hooked took the line, survey monument and all. "Poor guy," Conners said sadly. "After all that time and effort, he didn't even see one of the things. He couldn't so much as publish a preliminary report. He finally had a nervous breakdown. "Then the surveyors quit. They were furious when they found out about that monument. After months of work it was the only thing they had managed to map." Skroot listened with genuine sympathy. "Did the botanists accomplish anything?" "Yes and no," explained Conners. "They began by describing and classifying the marsh grasses. Then they disagreed about which family one of the species belonged to and spent the rest of their time on the planet arguing about it." "They didn't work on the Tastybushes?" asked Skroot. "No, they wanted to finish the grass first. As far as I know they're still arguing about it. After about six months, the whole crew got tired of the place and left." "Well," Skroot concluded, "at least I won't have to spend several months reading academic papers." He rose IF from his seat as though he expected to hear a loud creaking noise from his back. "When do I leave?" n T he trip and touchdown were uneventful. When Skroot stepped out of the ship's elevator to the planet, its perpetual blanket of fog and mist closed in around him. "Mr. Skroot?" called a tall, bony man, wearing a hooded plastic jacket and waders, who loomed suddenly into his ten-foot range of vision. "Yes, as a matter of fact I am," Skroot replied, squinting as though it would somehow help him in peering through the soupy air. "I'm Felix Usher, superintendent of the Planetrade Corporation trading post. Welcome to Gloomer." His clenched jaw and deep-set eyes overhung by shaggy black brows gave him an angry look. His normally snarling tone of voice completed the impression. "The chief beamed me that you were on your way. Here's your oversuit." Skroot took the plastic jacket and waders and began to pull them over his clothes as he peered myopically into the fog. "If I had suspected that the place was as bad as this, I would have demanded a larger fee." "Don't get all encouraged, Skroot," Usher sneered, "this is the best day we've had in three weeks, and this is the dry season." He led the way down a narrow path marked by flags on both sides. "When are you going to get to work?" "I just arrived a few minutes ago," Skroot reminded him. "But I would like to have a look at these Tastybushes I've heard so much about. Is there time to do it today? It looks as though it's almost nightfall." "NightfaU, hell," Usher growled, "it's barely noon." They stepped off the hard surface of the landing pad and promptly sank ankle deep into the spongy surface of the planet. "We can drive over into the swamp right now." "How far is it?" Skroot asked. "A couple of miles," Usher answered. "Be careful to stay on the path. We don't want to lose you this quickly." They trudged along for a few more paces when suddenly, a huge vehicle appeared through the mist. "This is how we get around. We call them swamp-cats. We have nine of them out here. No, eight," he corrected. The sudden reduction piqued Skroot's curiosity. "What happened to the ninth?" "Some clown came over to the trading post for a cup of coffee and forgot where he parked it. That was two weeks ago." "You mean it's within walking distance of your trading post and you still can't find it?" "This is Gloomer, remember?" responded Usher. "It's not only within walking distance, I could stand on the front porch and hit it with a stone, if I had a stone and knew which way to throw it. It's nothing to worry about. We'll find it sooner or later. We always do," T hey clambered into the swampcat, and Usher pressed the switch to turn the engine over. It growled and sputtered but nothing happened. 'Ignition wet," mumbled Usher. Finally it caught, and they moved ponderously down a road marked by posts spaced a few feet apart and painted fluorescent yellow.  "I ordered waterproof ignition systems for all nf them," Usher explained. "Two years ago." 'Two years?" asked Skroot in amazement. "Are you sure they haven't forgotten?" "Oh, no," he responded. "We've been corresponding about it quite regularly. Almost every mail delivery has something about it. The mail sacks aboard the ship you came on probably have three or four more letters for me on the ignition systems alone." "Isn't two years a long time to wait?" "Not really. It's not bad once you get used to the system. After all, the request had to go through three different departments. Besides, I have plenty of mail to keep me busy," "But two years?" "That's not bad. The man I replaced ordered some waterproof signal flares three and a half years ago, and they still haven't come." "Why on earth should it take that long?" "Special order. Waterproof signal flares aren't regulation equipment,  and the corporation storehouse doesn't stock them." "Oh," Skroot said, unable to imagine an appropriate comment. "How soon win we reach the Tastybushes?" "Any time now." Usher drove silently along. "Ah. There they are." The swamp-cat sloshed to a stop just off the trail, in view of a small thicket of waist-high bushes and enormous thom-studded tree trunks which disappeared upward into the mist. Usher pointed to the bushes, scowling. "They used to be that thick all the way across that plain we just crossed. Now there's nothing at all there except that lousy swamp grass." "Is this the swamp?" queried Skroot. "It doesn't look much different than the plain. Or around the spaceport, for that matter." "It isn't any different," Usher growled. 'The whole lousy planet is a swamp. You should see the trading post." The persistent and saturating mist had found its way into the closed cab of the swamp-cat, covering every surface with a thin gloss of tiny water droplets. Skroot watched in fascination as they merged to form little rivulets which flowed to the floor. When they climbed from the vehicle a small waterfall accompanied them out the door. T hey walked over to the clump of Tastybushes, Usher mumbling under his breath and stomping small, lavender-colored things under the heel of his waders. "Here's what's giving us all the trouble," he snarled. "Caterpillars." "Let's have a look." Skroot fell to his knees with a splash to examine the caterpillars Usher had missed. As he watched, he noticed the crushed remains of the victims slowly assuming their normal spherical IF shapes. Soon they began creeping toward the Tastybushes again, like hairy little golf balls. "They're tough to kill. You can't just squash them," Usher explained, tromping another to illustrate. "But you can blow them out -- like this!" With that he snatched a long, rusty knife from its scabbard with a graceful swoop and threw it with a grunt at another of the caterpillars which, as he predicted, blew out with a liquid pop. Its reddish purple contents spewed out and immediately soaked into the ground. The caterpillar shrank into an object which resembled a fuzzy pea. Skroot examined the carcass with great interest as Usher explained, "We took so long that we finally just gave the collectors big bags to stuff them into. Then we dump them into the nearest river, and the fish -- or whatever they are -- eat them." "Very interesting," murmured Skroot. "The caterpillars, then, are "No, hell no," Usher exclaimed. "They just eat the flowers before we can pick them." He reached out and snatched a fuzzy lavender lump off the nearest bush and flung it to the ground, where he ground it under his heel. As they watched, it resumed its shape and continued its march. "It's not too tough to keep them under control in our major collecting areas. We have a crew of men patrolling the place catching the caterpillars as soon as they climb down out of the Thorn trees. That's where they come from, you know. Out of the Thorn trees." "Out of the Thorn trees? You don't say." Skroot examined the nearest Thorn tree with new interest. Sure enough, four lavender caterpillars were threading their way down the trunk, detouring around the thick bases of the long, sharp thorns. While he wrote furiously in his book he asked, "If not the caterpillars, what, then, do you believe to be "Old age, probably," Usher said, kicking caterpillars away from a bush as though they were tiny soccer balls. "They die off in a couple of years, but there always used to be new plants to replace the dead ones. But lately there just haven't been any young ones at all." "Good heavens," exclaimed Skroot, "I'm soaked to the skin, even with my oversuit on. Isn't there some way to stay dry out here?" "That suit is standard corporation rain apparel, Skroot, that's all there is. But don't feel badly," Usher consoled, "everyone else is soaked too. You get soaked the day you arrive and you don't dry out again until after you leave. On Gloomer the only time you can even smoke is when a ship is in the port. You can crawl into the cargo hold and seal all the hatches." S kroot gazed intently at a Tastybush. "If the life span is only two years or so, they must mature fairly rapidly." "They do," Usher commented. "Everything does around here." He pointed toward a Thom tree. "Even those things. They grow up and out of sight in two months." "My word," exclaimed Skroot "How tall are they?" "Hell, I don't know," retorted Usher. "No one has ever seen the top of one." "Very interesting," Skroot murmured, peering upward to the point where the thorny trunk disappeared into the gloom. Rivulets of water trickled down the frames of his glasses into his ears and evenutally dripped off his earlobes. Skroot tipped his head to one side and shook it violently. Although the procedure did get rid of the water on the left side, it caused the water to run further into his right ear. Usher laughed. "In a few days you'll learn to pay no attention to things like that, Siioot. Or you'll go mad. It's a toss-up, I think." "Indeed?" commented Skroot, watching yet another caterpillar swimming across a small puddle toward a Tastybush. "Have you tried less violent means to kill your caterpillars?" "We've tried everything we could think of," Usher said disgustedly. "We've tried insecticides of every description, irritants, repellents -- you name it. The big problem is that whatever you use, if it touches the bushes they drop all their leaves, and the flowers to boot. And most of the time it doesn't bother the caterpillars at all." "You don't say," Skroot answered. "They just fall off? My word." Usher pointed a scrawny index finger toward the smaU thicket. "Those lousy Tastybushes are more sensitive than the crew," he growled, "and they're terrible." Skroot bent over a Tastybush, attempting to examine a leaf with his pocket magnifying ass. Its lens was completely beaded over with water. "We can't even transplant the things," complained Usher. "As soon as you touch them the leaves fall off; then the whole bush collapses." "Collapses? Indeed? How do you mean?" "They just go limp," shrugged Usher. "Then they fall on the ground. Some of them get up again, but mostly they don't." "According to the reports I've seen, there isn't anything left to try," Skroot agreed, smearing a finger across his glasses. They were now not only wet, but muddy. "It's time to start on an entirely new line of investigation." "Whatever we do it had better be fast," Usher commented. "If we don't come up with an answer soon we stand to lose a pile of money." "So I understand," Skroot said, observing that the mist had begun falling more heavily. He groped his way back to the swamp-cat and opened the door. Another flood of water poured out of it. When he was seated, he opened his notebook and began scribbling urgently. "Why doesn't that thing fall apart?" "It's waterproof," explained Skroot. "Just a plain, old fashioned waterproof field notebook." "I ordered some a year ago," Usher said, wistfully eyeing the book. "Accounting department turned them down. Too expensive." "Good heavens. Usher, what do you write on? Ordinary paper would fall apart in five minutes." IF "I don't write on anything. In fact, I haven't written a word since I got to Gloomer." Skroot .self-consciously tucked the dripping book back into its soggy holster. On the way back to the trading post. Usher clearly outlined his pinions of the planet (rotten), the weather (worst anywhere), the crew (a bunch of lazy misfits) and money (this he liked). 'The only reason I'm here," Usher explained, "is because I can earn enough in a single five-year hitch to retire to Bathsheba. Now there's a planet." T hey finally reached the trading post, and Skroot was not really surprised to see a small waterfall gushing over the doorsill. "It's a lot better now than it used to be," Usher commented. "We japked up one end of the building, so now the water runs out. It used to be terrible." The floor was canted sufficiently to make Skroot uncomfortable. The tilt of the room was made more obvious by the pictures and graphs tacked to the walls. They hung straight, but at a distinct angle to the floor. "You know," Skroot offered, "this is just like a fun house at an amusement park." "Skroot," Usher observed coldly, "if there's anything this place isn't, it's a fun house." "I must say, it's difficult for one to become adjusted to it. It's as though one of my legs were shorter than the other." "We argued that out long before you got here, Skroot. We decided that it feels as though one leg were longer. You're outvoted." Usher sluiced most of the water off his chair and sat down at his desk. "Where's my briefcase?" he asked rhetorically, looking about the room for it. "Oh, there it is. Skroot, how about handing it to me?" Skroot's gaze followed Usher's pointing finger until he spotted the briefcase jammed into a pile of rubble at the low end of the room where it had been swept to by the sheet of water which slid rapidly across the floor. He noticed that several holes had been cut through the floor where cabinets and desks impeded the water's flow, and each hole was surrounded by a tiny gurgling whirlpool. "Thanks," Usher grunted as Skroot handed him the briefcase. "Now let's get down to business. What do you think?" "As yet it is difficult to say," Skroot began, "I've hardly had an opportunity to investigate, but I intend to begin immediately." He consulted his notebook. "To begin with," he said, "I shall need two men to assist me in my investigations, a swamp-cat and free access to your tools and equipment. In addition, I will set aside an area with its Tastybushes intact and will permit no collecting where my work is being conducted." "You want what?" shouted Usher explosively. "Do you also want my left arm and all my money?" Droplets of water flew from his finger as he shook it at Skroot. "Do you have any idea what that will cost me? Personally? My commissions come out of the net profit of this trading post. And now you want me to give you expensive equipment and fuel and take two men off their collection routes? And take a bunch of Tastybushes out of production? Skroot, you're out of your mind I" Skroot sat placidly with his hands folded in his lap, water dripping rapidly off the tips of his fingers. When Usher finished his tirade, Skroot outlined alternatives until there was grudging agreement. ni E arly the next morning Skroot and his two assistants departed for the chosen area with a load of tools and miscellaneous gear. "Gentlemen," he explained, "my task is to prevent the loss of flavor extract to Planetrade Corporation. I intend to accomplish this as quickly and as simply as possible." "I figured it was something like that," said Jake. "So did I," added Harry, "only first. I mentioned it to Jake while we were waiting for you," he explained to Skroot. 'That don't mean you thought of it first, you bum," Jake shouted. "Gentlemen," soothed Skroot, "if you do exactly as I say, quickly and efficiently, our work will soon be completed." 'That's a laugh," chortled Harry. "The reason Usher sent Jake out with you is because he ain't done nothing quickly or efficently since he got to Gloomer." "You should talk," countered Jake. "Usher sent Harry out here because he's the clumsiest so-and-so on the planet. The only reason he's still here at all is because he ain't worth the cost of shipping back to Earth." The swamp-cat mushed to a stop in view of two or three Tastybushes and a pair of thick, spiny Thorn trees. "Gentlemen," Skroot began again, as though he hadn't heard their exchange of insults, "our first task is to discover whether we can recover the extract of the Tastybush more efficently than by collecting their blossoms. This is the most simple solution to the caterpillar menace. Our second task, to discover why there are no young Tastybushes, wDl begin shortly." Jake and Harry slowly climbed down from the swamp-cat and stood quietly, glumly watching the lavender caterpillars meandering slowly across the ground. "If we are to maintain my experimental schedule, we must begin immediately," Skroot announced. "Our first task is to attempt to recover sap from the trunk of a Tastybush for analysis. I understand we must be delicate in the process." "Delicate ain't the word for it, Skroot, it won't work," Jake said flatly. "We already tried it." "Indeed?" asked Skroot? "Vhen?" "Well, actually I didn't personally try it, but somebody or other did a few years ago, and he said it didn't work." Jake remained convinced that further attempts would be hopeless. Harry commented, "I know the guy that tried it. That clod is about as delicate as a bomb." IF "Do either of you gentlemen have any idea of the technique he used," Skroot asked patiently. "Yeah," responded Harry. "He told me that the boss wanted some sap to test, but he didn't say how to get it. So he walked up to a bush and stepped on it to bend it over. Then he took a cut at it with his knife." "With what result?" "Just what you might expect. As soon as he touched the thing, it gave a good shake, and all the leaves fell off. Then it went limp and collapsed. But it didn't get cut up too badly, so a few days later it came up again." "It seems obvious," Skroot explained, "that one must use extreme delicacy with a plant which is sensitive to tactile stimulii. We will be much more gentle." "I know more about them things than you do, Skroot," Jake announced, "and it ain't going to work." "It is entirely possible that it will not," Skroot replied patiently, "but we must exclude all possibilities." S kroot shook the water out of the dissection kit which he carried and slowly crept beneath the branches of a Tastybush, being very careful to avoid touching them. Very gently he pushed aside the grass which surrounded the trunk, and very tenderly he made a small incision about four inches above the ground. The Tastybush reacted as Jake had predicted; it began to shake vigorously, its foliage dropping to the ground in a flurry. Immediately the branchlets began to sag, then the major branches, and finally the entire plant collapsed before their eyes into a small ghostly pile. "I say there," Skroot exclaimed in surprise, untangling the flaccid branches which had somehow become entangled in his eyeglass frames. "It did indeed collapse. How extraordinary." "You can't say I didn't tell you so," Jake shouted triumphantly, nodding his head vigorously in affirmation. "It appears, then," Skroot pondered, "that the Tastybush is similar to the caterpillars in that their shapes are maintained through turgidity. The pressure of their internal fluids causes them to fill out their shapes," Skroot frantically entered the new information into his notebook. "Next," Skroot announced, "since it appears that the Tastybush causes its fluids to flow into the root system for protection, thus causing to bush to collapse, we must use other means to extract a sample. Harry, get the first-aid kit from the swampcat. You. Jake, select a bush which has few branches near the ground." As the two disappeared into to mist in opposite directions, Skroot removed his glasses and wiped them on his wet plastic oversuit, leaving them no cleaner or dryer. "Here's a good bush over here, Skroot," called Jake, as Harry returned with the first-aid kit. "Where, Jake?" Skroot shouted peering uselessly into the fog. "Over here," Jake answered helpfully, "about fifteen feet or so." Skroot opened to lid of the kit and pushed a half dozen floating bottles of salt tablets aside, groping among the objects which had sunk to the bottom. "Salt tablets?" he asked. "It's a regulation corporation firstaid kit," Harry explained. "Aha!" Skroot said. "Got it. Gentlemen, this may be our answer." He dredged up a tourniquet, tangled into two sodden rolls of gauze and some adhesive tape. "Come on, Skroot, what are you talking about?" asked Harry in a disgusted tone of voice. "Essentially this, gentlemen." He swung the wet tourniquet like a garotte. "We impede the flow of the sap returning to the root system. Thus, with the sap trapped in the branches of the plant, we will be able to extract our sample for analysis." Jake shook his head negatively. "Usher ain't going to like this, Skroot. That Tastybush is going to die just sure as anything." Skroot paid no attention, crawling beneath the dripping bush clutching 'SmWi WmMm vmMm the tourniquet. He passed it gently around the short trunk and with a quick jerk pulled it tight and twisted. As the tourniquet constricted the trunk of the tree, it began to quiver and shake, and a cloud of leaves fell to the ground. The tips of the denuded branchlets went limp, and the major branches began to droop. Skroot nervously watched a bulge form in the trunk above the tourniquet. The tastybush twitched and sagged, and the bulge steadily grew in size until it was fully five or six times the diameter of the trunk. "Jump back, Skroot!" Harry shouted, "If that thing blows it'll take your head clean off." He and Jake hit the ground with a splash as Skroot tenaciously clung to the final twist of the tourniquet. S kroot opened one tightly clenched eye and squinted through a watery lens at the bulge in the trunk, which was now shrinking to its normal size. The upper branches near the trunk became turgid again, and the bush took on an almost normal appearance. "Jake," he shouted, "come over here and hold this tourniquet while I make the incision." Jake fearfully crawled under the bare branches of the Tastybush and took hold of the tourniquet. "Whatever happens," Skroot ordered, "don't let go." "Harry," Skroot shouted, "bring me that plastic bucket from the swamp-cat. And hurry." Harry sluiced the water out of the bucket as he slogged rapidly back to the bush. Skroot seized one of the stiff branches and lunged at it with his scalpel. The branch immediately went limp; but the branches on the opposite side bulged out and shook. Skroot held the flaccid branch in his hand. "Give me the bucket and go shake up the other side of the bush. That should cause the fluid to flow again to this side." Harry grabbed a major branch in each hand and began alternately shaking and twisting them. Soon Skroot's branch began to stiffen. "Aha!" he shouted triumphantly and plunged the scalpel into it. The branch cringed as he sat down on the ground with the bucket between his knees. The fluid began to squirt noisily into it. "Keep shaking, Harry." Skroot encouraged the flow by squeezing the branch near the trunk and sliding his fingers toward the tip of the branch. Each stroke brought a spurt of liquid into the frothy bucket. The three paid no attention to the sound of a swamp-cat mushing to a stop a short distance away. U sher's mouth dropped open as the scene unfolded through the falling mist. Jake continued to cling to the tourniquet while Harry shook the limp branches to force the fluid to Skroot, who sat intently aiming spurts of sap at the bucket. "Just what in hell are you doing to that bush?" he screamed, his face turning Jake's legs and began to tug at them, trying to drag him away from the Tastybush. "Let go of my legs," Jake yelled, hanging grimly onto the tourniquet. "Skroot, make him let go of my legs." "I was better off with the lousy caterpillars!" Usher screamed, giving Jake's legs a final tug. Jakes fingers slipped, and his chin ploughed a furrow through the ground as Usher dragged him backward. The furrow rapidly filled with water as the bush collapsed. Harry stood there, tentatively shaking two spaghettilike branches, while Skroot's dangled limply into the bucket. Water ran out of Usher's sleeve as he shook a knobby fist at Skroot. "I thought you came out here to find to start slaughtering them yourself." Skroot approached him, bucket in hand. "I would deeply appreciate it, Usher, if you would not interfere with my work or with my staff." "That's telling him, Skroot," cheered Jake. Skroot handed the bucket to Usher. "Here is a sample of the plant's internal fluid. Please have it completely analyzed." The intended severity of his words was somewhat IF diluted by the water which trickled off the end of his nose. Usher grabbed the bucket angrily and without further comment he stalked back to his swamp-cat, spacing his steps to flatten the caterpillars in his path. By the time he reached the swamp-cat, all of them had ballooned out again and were creeping toward the Tastybushes as though nothing had happened. "I told you he'd be mad," Jake said. "Gentlemen," Skroot said, ignoring him, "we have completed phase one of my experimental design. We will immediately begin phase two." He began writing in his dripping but still stiff notebook, ignoring the trickle of water which ran dowfi the barrel of his pen, into little puddles across the words he wrote. "Jake, I want you to climb one of the Thorn trees to see if you can discover the source of the caterpillars. When you reach the top I want you to shout down to me and describe what you see." "You're out of your head, Skroot," Harry diagnosed, "Jake can't climb one of them trees. There ain't nobody who can climb one." "Why, may I ask?" "Just take a look at them thorns," Jake said. "Every one pointed down. Even the caterpillars don't crawl back up. Only down. Besides, how do I know how far I have to climb? I might get up there three or four hundred feet, and I wouldn't be able to yell loud enough for you to hear me. On top of that, how do I know what else might be up there? No, sir. I might get up there, and no one would ever see me again. Like one of them Indians rope tricks." Skroot inspected one of the thorns and tested its sharpness with the tip of a finger. "You're quite correct, Jake. It would indeed be difficult to climb one of these trees." "You bet it would be tough," Jake agreed. "You can't do it." "Nevertheless, we must observe the source of the caterpillars. Harry, bring an axe from the swamp-cat and chop it down." "You're insane, Skroot," Harry gasped. "That thing is a good three feet thick, and who knows how tall. And you want me to chop it down?" "Let us face facts," Skroot explained patiently.  "It is, after all, a part of phase two. No one has ever observed the place of origin of the caterpillars. Further, no one has ever observed a caterpillar climbing back upl" "Hell, no," retorted Jake, "nothing can get up one of them trees." "Phase two must begin," Skroot insisted. "Harry, get the axe." As Harry sullenly plodded toward the vehicle, Skroot reached into his gadget bag, displacing several ounces of water which splashed to the ground. His hand emerged holding a small can of fluorescent yellpw paint. "Jake, take this and place identifying marks on several caterpillars as they climb down the trunk of a Thom tree. Then watch them carefully to observe their activities. And be careful not to disturb them in any way." Harry reappeared through the mist carrying a double-bit axe with a rusted head. Jake shouted, "Start chopping, Harry, while I go paint caterpillars. Ha." F or the first time since his arrival, Skroot began to show signs of impatience and anger; he glowered at Jake and demanded, "Harry, give me the axe!" Harry viewed Skroot with suspicion as Jake quickly disappeared into the gloom without another word. "Give me the axe," Skroot repeated. He placed his foot atop a deadfall, raised the axe and took careful aim at it. "Jake," Harry shouted, "come here and take a look at this. Skroot flipped. He's going to chop off his foot." Jake approached warily to see if what Harry said was true. "You can't do that, Skroot. Them waders is corporation property. You can't go chopping them up with an axe." Gentlemen," Skroot said calmly, "as corporate employees you may be enjoined from damaging corporate property. But I am not" With that he brought the axe down sharply, cleanly severing the toe of his reinforced plastic wader. Three or four gallons of water gushed out and immediately disappeared into the ground. He repeated the process with his right wader, but somewhat less gracefully. "Jake, Skroot warned, "you are not observing the caterpillars as I asked you to." Jake shook his head and disappeared into the mist. "Harry, take the axe and chop down a Thom tree." Usher's swamp-cat slurped to a stop nearby and soon he appeared through the gloom. "What are you IF Special A # Issues  # B # Issues # Christmas Gilt Rates C # Issues  # D # Issues # Add # for each (# issues) for foreign subscription E # Issues of Each #-# In All   F # Issues of Each #-# In All Add # for each (# issues) for foreign subscription Enclosed please find  in payment for subscriptions to be sent in accordance with the offers indicated in each case below;   enclose additional gifts, on separate sheet No Postage Stamp Necessary if Mailed in the U, S. Give the gift you would like to receive Permit No. # Sec. #, P.L.R. New York, N.Y. No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States clowns up to now?" he asked. "I just passed Jake crawling on to hands and knees following caterpillars with faces painted on them. Skioot, what in hell is going cm?" "Well," explained Skroot, "we're in phase two of my research plan: Jake is observing the behavior of several caterpillars, and Harry is about to cut down this Thorn tree." "He's what? Oh, no!" Usher shouted. "Harry, stop!" But Harry's axe had already begun its swing. In attempting to stop it he merely lost his balance and fell to the ground with a splat. Usher turned to run as the axe bit into the trunk of the Thorn tree, but it was too late. The trunk split open. The reddish purple liquid spurted out in a solid stream, passing over the prostrate Harry. It caught Usher full in the back, propelling him a full twenty feet, out of sight, into a clump of Tastybushes which promptly began shaking and dropping their leaves. Skroot observed with great interest, watching hundreds of gallons of fluid pouring out the rent in the trunk. He could hear Usher's cursing above the roaring and splashing of the torrent. The stream slowed down as the great Thorn tree slowly shrank and collapsed upon itself hke an enormous concertina. Usher eventually clambered out of the thicket of denuded and collapsed Tastybushes and shouted, "Skroot, you madman. Are you trying to kill us all?" Four or five caterpillars clung to him, which he angrily threw to the ground as he stalked forward. "And look at the toes on your oversuit I You're going to pay for those things. This is the end. I don't care what headquarters has to say. It's either you or me. This is absolutely the end." "In a manner of speaking, you may be at least partially correct, you know," Skroot answered happily. "We may indeed be nearing the end. In your right pocket you have approximately a liter of the liquid fiom the Thorn tree. In your left you will discover a caterpillar." Usher winced. "Please conduct an analysis of both," Skroot continued, "and compare the results with the sample from the Tastybush. Then inform me of the result immediately." U sher was unable to speak a word, but the expression on his face conveyed this emotions. He turned abruptly and disappeared in the direction of his swamp-cat. Skroot walked over to the former Thorn tree, the top of which was now perched atop a large pile of ghostly trunk skin studded th sharp spikes. "Harry, come over "here and observe this," Skroot said. Slowly and with great effort, Harry trudged over and stood next to the remains of the Thorn tree. With each step he sunk almost knee deep into the ground. "Look, Harry, here are great clusters of caterpillars actually growing out of the top of the Thorn tree!" "I'll be darned. I never saw anything like that around here before." "My word," Skroot said. "Here's a cluster of immature ones still attached by tiny stalks. Good heavens, I must, publish a description." "Hey, Skroot!" Jake shouted from somewhere out in the oom. "These here caterpillars just crawled into a Tastybush." "Surprise, surprise," shouted Harry in response. "What did you expect them to do?" "Don't touch them, Jake watch them," cautioned Skroot. "Where are you?" "Over here," came the helpful answer. "In this clump of Tastybushes," Skroot and Harry could see neither Jake nor the Tastybushes, but they followed the sound of his voice until they reached a clump with water-filled hand and knee prints pointed into it. "I'm in here," Jake shouted again, "and the caterpillars are eating flowers." "Keep watching them," Skroot repeated, "but don't touch them." "Quit yelling," Jake responded. "I'm only ten feet away -- I think." Harry sank further into the ground with each moment that passed, making slurping noises every time he moved. "Harry," Skroot asked curiously, "what on earth is the matter with you?" "Nothing at all," Harry answered calmly. "It's just that my waders filled up with Thorn tree sap, and they're kind of heavy." "Why don't you chop off the toes and allow the liquid to escape?" "You crazy?" demanded Harry. "And have to pay for them?" He lay down on his back and with great effort, lifted his legs into the air. The contents of his waders flushed out, almost drowning him. "That's just as good," he sputtered, "and cheaper" "Hey, Skroot," came Jake's call from the Tastybushes. 'The caterpillars finished the flowers, and they're climbing down off the bush." "Aha I" exclaimed Skroot "Don't lose track of them." Skroot leafed back and forth through the pages of his notebook, frequently sluicing the water off his glasses, "Aha!" he repeated. # # Qkroot, here's one of them paint ed ones," called Harry. As they watched, a caterpillar with a snaggletoothed face painted on its smootheddown fur crawled from the bushes and crept across the ground. "Jake, I asked you to watch them," shouted Skroot in annoyance. "Don't worry, Skroot, there's stiH five of them in here." Skroot carefully observed the progress of the colorful little caterpillar. It stopped. "What do you suppose the thing's going to do now?" Harry asked. "Well," Skroot began, "according to one of my working hypotheses..." "Look at the thing!" exclaimed Harry in surprise. "It's digging a hole. It's burying itself!" "Aha!" cried Skroot triumphantly. "I thought so!" He watched until the tiny hole filled in with water and the caterpillar was no longer visible. "Jake," Skroot shouted toward the Tastybushes, "come out instantly. We're off for the trading post." "Fat chance," Jake complained. "I can't move. I'm stuck. I'll probably starve to death in here." "Those are all Tastybushes," instructed Skroot, "just grab a couple and start shaking them." Jake did so, IF and immediately several of them dropped their leaves and collapsed. Jake walked unimpeded from the center of the thicket. Water cascaded from the front seat of the swamp-cat as Skroot opened the door. They clambered aboard and proceeded at a breakneck pace, sending up a small bow wave in the soaked and porous ground. They mushed to a stop in front of the trading post, the cataract of water still pouring out its front door. Skroot sloshed into the building, his waders followed by tiny wakes as he crossed the floor to Usher's desk. IV U sher was seated there, searching for something in his lower left drawer, which was filled to the top with water. "I wish I could convince the supply department that I really need things that float. Oh, well, if I did, I probably couldn't convince the accounting department that it was worth the extra cost. Half of our equipment sinks out of sight somewhere on the first day after it gets here." Usher continued to feel around in the bottom of the water filled drawer. "Why don't you punch holes in the bottom?" asked Skroot, considering that the simplest solution to the problem. "Because it's corporation property, that's why," sneered Usher, "and I'd have to pay for it." He grimaced angrily at Skroot. "Is that all you ever think of? Damaging corporation property? What do you want now, you vandal?" Unperturbed, Skroot said pleasantly, "I was curious to know whether those samples have been analyzed." "Yes, they have," Usher replied, "and I'm sorry to say it, but you hit pay dirt. Tastybush juice is loaded with flavor; Thorntree juice is loaded with flavor, and even that lousy caterpillar juice is loaded with flavor." "Aha! Excellent, excellent," chortled Skroot. "Now we don't have to worry about those lousy Tastybushes dying off. We'll start on the Thorn trees first. They're the easiest, and they grow just as fast. Then if we need more we'll go after the caterpillars." "Well, no," responded Skroot. "I'm afraid you can't do that." "Skroot, you nut, of course we can. We know it's possible now." "It's not as simple as that," explained Skroot. "You see, there is a somewhat complex ecological and reproductive cycle involved here." "Explain," demanded Usher. "Well," he began, "on Earth a similar situation exists in certain plants which we refer to as "dioecious," from the Greek roots dis, meaning two, and oikos, meaning house. In effect, it means two houses." "So what?" Usher interrupted, pounding his fist on the desk, showering tiny droplets of water across the room. "Greek roots be damned. What's going on?" Refusing to be interrupted, Skroot  continued. "You see, dioecious plants actually have two sexes. Very simply, we have boy plants which produce pollen and girl plants which produce blossoms." He cleared his throat. "The pollen floats through the air, blown to the flowers of the female plants of the same species. The pollen fertilizes the blossoms, and seeds develop within them. When the seeds mature, they are distributed in various ingenious ways." "So much for the lecture, Skroot. What are you trying to say?" "Simply that the plants you refer to as Thorn trees and Tastybushes are in fact merely male and female plants of the same species." "Aw, come on, Skroot, they don't look anything at all alike." S kroot tsk-ed at him. "Don't allow external appearances to deceive you. On Earth, for example, several genera display sexual dimorphism to an amazing extent." "To hell with that, Skroot," Usher demanded. "Get on with it. What about the caterpillars?" "Ah, yes, the caterpillars. An interesting adaptation. The environment here simply isn't conducive to the distribution of airborne pollen -- the lack of wind and the constanl mist, you know. "So. just as in the cases of certain plants on Earth, the reproductive cells have become highly mobile. The species has evolved a form of pollen which propels itself down the trunk of the male plant and across the ground to the female plant, the Tastybush." "I'll be darned." exclaimed Usher. "Why then do they eat the flowers?" "Actually, they don't really eat them. I doubt whether they eat at all. The mobile pollen grains merely migrate to the Tastybushes to fertilize themselves by absorbing the blossoms. Then, after fertilization, they can truly be called mobile seeds." "Seeds?" asked Usher in astonishment. "You mean to tell me that all these years we've been feeding Tastybush seeds to the fish, or whatever they are?" "Indeed you have been," chuckled Skroot. "Of course, some of them would grow into Thorn trees to provide a new male generation." "Then if we plant caterpillars, they will grow into Thorn trees and Tastybushes?" "Indeed they will, Usher, indeed they will. I suggest you begin training your crew to begin replanting immediately. In a few months from now you should be able to harvest your first crop. I would personally appreciate it if you would hurry. After all, my commissions begin only a year from now." U sher, Jake and Harry stood to the side of the ship to view the departure of Charles Darwin Skroot. He slogged aboard the loading elevator. emptied the water from his equipment bag, smeared the rivulets from his glasses with a wet finger and waved good-by as he disappeaied IF IF  Feature L ast time, if you I'emember, we were talking about the fact that neither science fiction itself nor science-fiction fandom are exclusively American phenomena. Fans, fan clubs, conventions and fanzines are found all over the globe, including some places where you would never expect to find them. Down in South Africa, there's a fan named Roger Clegg... in Stockholm, Sweden, there's Carl Brandon... a fan named Osvaldo Elliff lives in La Plata, Argentina... in Certh, Scotland, there's Brian Hill... Tokyo, Japan, boasts of a fan named Yukiko Yesuoka... then there's Leland Shapiro in Saskatoon, Canada... Jannick Storm land... Tom Schluck in Hanover, West Germany, Jack Wodhams in Queensland, Australia... Ugo Malaguti in Bologna, Italy... Jack Knight in New Zealand... and -- well, I guess you get the idea! What kind of fan activities go on in other countries? Quite a vaiiety, actually. In Hannut, Belgium, Michael Feron publishes a monthly bilingual fanzine called Early Bird. A sample of the contents: news about the # science-fiction fan convention in Vienna, reviews of sf mags published in France and a look at a Canadian science-fiction movie. On May #, #, the fcuith annual meeting of Japan's only sf fan club met in Tokyo with more than sixty fans attending. Among the items thrashed out in open discussion were the nature of the club's forthcoming fanzine (the Japanese word for 'Tanzine," by the way, seems to be "Uchukiryu." Remember, you read it first in !) and plans for the annual national science-fiction convention which was held in Nagoya, one of the bigger cities in east Japan. Down in South America, the news of the hour is that The Hohhit (as 'El Hobito") has just been published there. Spanish-speaking fans south of the border are now hopefully awaiting the full Lord of the Rings trilogy. Also, Fve heard on the fannish grapevine that a fanzine called Argentine SF Review has been published. As I haven't actually seen a copy, I can't announce it for certain... In Trieste, the annual sciencefiction film festival audience watched an ambitious color film from Yugoslavia called Sedrni Kontinent ("Seventh Continent"), a directorial first by the noted and prize-winning Yugoslav animator, Dusan Vukotic, which Variety, the American showbiz weekly newspaper, thought was an uneven but stimulating attempt to blend satire and fantasy into a film for both kids and adults. And in Calcutta, India, of all places, there's a lively and booming science-fiction fan club with over fifteen hundred members ("and a long waiting list," reports The New Yorker), Star member of internationally celebrated Bangali film director, Satyajit Ray Father Panchali, Aparajito, The World of ApUy etc.), who is not only a wildly enthusiastic sf fan and reader, but author as well -- in India he writes juvenile sf for teen-agers. Furthermore, Mr. Ray is reportedly now at work on a new science-fiction film, a joint Bengali-American production whose working title h The Alien, which is supposed to star Peter Sellers as an Indian businessman who discovers a flying saucer or something. The script, last I heard, was also a joint effort -- between Arthur C. Clarke and Mr. Ray. But of all the countries in which sf fandom is active, the most interesting to us Americans would be Great Britain, which reads much of the same fiction we get over here and which also has an annual convention. In fact, let's take a look at the British # convention. The Bristol Convention Over the Easter holidays this year, the eyes of British fandom were fixed on Bristol, a large (#I square miles), ancient (founded in the reign of the Saxon king, Aethelred the Unready, #-# A.D.) city To Bristol's Hawthorn Hotel flocked science-fiction authors, editors, artists, fans, collectors and just plain readers. Guest of Honor was John Brunner, whose name you must have seen in If and on the paperback stands many, many times (he's written #I novels that I can think of, and probably I've missed a few). He gave a lucid speech on unauthorized mucking-about with an author's stuff as done by some publishers in America. As a case in point, he mentioned his recent novel The Production of Time (I'm not sure whether he said the editors IF had made fifty changes on the first page or just in the first chapter)  then went on to develop the theme that far too many sf writers of today seem to be firmly #th Century so far as their choice of plots goes. He said they didn't seem to be really aware of the enormous possibilities open to those of us who work within the science-fiction field, where plot and setting are capable of literally infinite variety. Besides John Brunner, a host of other writers attended the Bristol con: James White (author of All Judgment Fled) and Judith Merrill, on hand to represent the American writers, not to mention Michael Moorcock. The convention opened with a bang when Brian W. Aldiss made all the Big Names present stand up and look sheepish while he "introduced" them. The convention program had a delightful variety of entertainment and business. There were movies, including a showing of sf cover artist Ed Emsh's Underground movie, Relativity. There was a sherry  cider party for informal icebreaking. There was a mock-Medieval pagent whereat some local celebrities were initiated into The Loyal and Ancient Order of St. Fantony (the patron saint of science fiction fans, you know), attended by some # spectators. And there was the giving out of the British Fantasy Awards, the English equivalent of our own Hugos. One of our boys figured large in this, when Philip K. Dick won for his novel. The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch. Another award went to Michael Moorcock for his valiant efforts in the behalf of British science-fiction publishing, though which he managed to keep Britain's only homegrown sf magazine still surviving. New Worlds, alive by means of a British Arts Council grant. On the second day of the convention, Mike Moorcock told how he got the grant that will help keep that magazine's (mast) head above water. He also showed around a dummy of the forthcoming first issue in its new format. The main theme of Moorcock's speech, however, was about "revolution and evolution in science fiction" -- that is, the forces and people who change the shape of science fiction, not the plot-#hemes of ev.  rev. Moorcock's example of a revolutionary force in modern science fiction is J. G. Ballard. To his way of thinking, Ballard is doing something entirely new in sL This point was challenged by someibody in the audience who rebutted Ballard, saying all he had done was to put a few new twists on the old James Joyce "stream-of-consciousness" narrative technique. There's one in eveiy crowd. Can't Anyone Help Denmark? For contrast, let's turn from the lively state of science fiction and fandom in Great Britain to the doleful state of things in Denmark. The land of Hans Christian Anderson has one, count 'im, one active and go-getting science-fiction fan, Jannick Storm. Jaimick is conducting a virtually single-handed fight to get some fannish activity going in his country, and he hasn't had much luck. Now, Jannick says there are certainly enough readers of science fiction in Denmark -- but where are all the fans? Most of the major science-fiction writers are translated into Danish and published over there. Two publishing houses, at least, do a thriving business in sf -- Hasselbalch and Skrifola. Ray Bradbury has been represented in Denmark by The Martian Chronic dcs, October Country, The Ulust rated Man. Poul Anderson's Brain Wave has been done over there, and so have books by John WyndbaaTi, Fred Hoyle, Pohl  Kombluth aiid most of the classics, such as Verne and Wells, Karel Capek and Oi'vell and Huxley. In fact, there are even a couple of native Danish science-fiction writers around: Niels E. Nielsen and Eiler Jorgensen. Harry Harrison has translated some of Nielsen's stuff into English, but Jorgensen is unknown to me. And there have been some homegrown Danish sf anthologies, published. Jorgen Rothenborg did one called The Other Side of The Moon, and Tage la Cour edited Stories From Other Worlds, and tliey were rather good anthologies, with stories by Bradbury and Van Vogt, Asimov and Stanley G. Weinbaum and Katherine McLean and other well-known American writers. But where in the name of smorgasbord are all the fans? Jannick has tried just about everything. Last year he lectured on science fiction to an audience of about # young readers at a meeting held in die town of Ringsted, Sealand. And he collaborated with a small Danish cinema society, organizing an open showing of some recentish science-fiction movies like The Incredible Shrinking Man, The Mysterians and Village of the Damned. Some # people showed up, but nothing much seems to have happened, fan-wise. Jannick Storm went to the Swedish SF Congress at Malmo, last year, hoping that a big event like this, held in a nearby country, might stimulate the Danish fans into coming out of hiding. Only two fans showed up to represent all of Denmark. But Jannick isn't discouraged, and the small handfull of sf-minded Danes he has managed to either discover or convert, may be the foundation of a full-fledged local fandom in years to come. In the meanwhile, I understand he keeps in touch with them via correspondence and encourages them to correspond with each other by the same medium, as they seem to be scattered too thinly about the country for anything like a local fan club. I have just heard that this Our Man In Fandom column has worked up such a storm of interest in science fiction and fandom that Don Blyly of Peoria has been able to found a fanclub of -readers in his local high school, and they've just started a fanzine called Science Fic tion Newsletter. Don's adress is # #. His Newsletter publishes # issues a year and will cost you # IF if you'd like to subscribe. It mainly consists of book reviews and articles on sf writers like Asimov and Zelazny. Our Man In Fandom must be pretty popular in Peoria, because Don tells me he sold # copies of his second issue! (As far as I know, this is the first fanclub and the first fanzine that got started purely because Our Man In Fandom. Any others? Please let me know.) Now, if this can happen in Peoria, how about Denmark? I don't know how many Danish citizens subscribe to Worlds of If, but if anyone in Denmark is reading this column, why not get in touch with Jannick Storm and get things going? Jannick's address in Ejbyveh #, Rodovre, Denmark. Let me know what happens -- okay? At The World Con Next time, we'll take a look at what happened over the Labor Day weekend at New York City's Hotel Statler-Hilton, where I'll take you on a guided tour of Nycon #, the #th World Science Fiction Convention. Among Other things, we'll talk about the authors and artists and magazines that received the # Hugos, and we'll find out which city is to be the host for the #th World Science Fiction Convention in #... #. Title #. (United States Code). #. Dale of filing: October #, #. #. Title of Publication; If Magazine. #. Frequency of issue: MonlhUv. #. Ixjoation of known office of publication: #I Hudson Street, New York, New York #. #. Location of the headquarters or general business offices of the publishers: #I Hudson Street, New York, New York #. #. Names and addresses of publisher, editor and managing editor. Publisher: Robert M. Guinn. #I Hudson Street. New York, New York #. Iklltor: Frederik Poid, #I Hud.son Street. New York, New York #. Managing Editor: None. #. Owner; Galaxy Publishing Corporation, #I Hudson Street, New York, New York #; Robert M. Quinn (sole stockholder), #I Hudson Street, New York. New Y'ork #, #. Known bondliolders, mortgagees and other security holders owning or liolding I percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other securities: None. #. Paragraphs # and # include, in cases wliere the stockholder or security holders appears upon the books of the company as tru.stce or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for wliom sucli trustee Is acting, also tlie statements in the two paragraphs show the affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circiun stances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear on the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a hona fide owner. Names and addresses of individuals who are stockliolders of a corporation which it.seif Is a stockholder or holder of bonds, raoilgagcs or other securities of the publishing corporation have been included In paragraplrs # and # when the interests of such individuals are equivalent to I percent or more of the total amount of the stock or securities of the publishing corporation. #. A. Total no, copies printed (net press run): average no. copies each issue during preceding # months; #; single issue nearest to filing date, #. B. Paid circulation. #. Sales through dealers and carriers, street vendors and counter sales: Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months, #, single Issue nearest to tiling date, #. #. Mail subscriptions: Average no. copies each issue during preceding # moutli.s, #, single issue nearest to filing date, #. C. Total paid circulation: Average no. copies each i.ssue during preceding # months. #; single issue nearest to filing dale, #, D. Free Di.stribution (including sample.s) by mail, carrier or other means: average no. copies each Issue during preceding # months: #; single issue nearest to filing date, #. E, Total distribution (sum of C and D) : average no. copies each issue preceding # months: #; single issues nearest to filing date, #, F. Office use. left-over, unaccounted, .spoiled after printing: Average no. copies each Issue during preceding # months, ,#: single issue nearest to filing date, #. (#. Total (sum of E and P -- should equal net press run shown In A) : Average no. copies each issue during preceding # months, #; single issue neare.st to filing dale. #. I certify that the statements made hy me above are coicect and complete, Robert M. Guiim, Publisher. The Spdcelighf wa meant to guide wandering j starfarers to safety -- j v  ! buf it was death to its own crew!  Illustrated by T he network of spacolights is spread throughout the Galaxy, its orbit pacing the stars; it has not of that orbit. There are holes in it, where Galactic Federation has not yet reached, but where it is established spacolights guide GalFed starships through dark nebulae and the blackest spans between the stars. In Local System GF#, Spacecant; there is a lot of blackness beyond it, and it is known as "the one on the edge of nowhere." But, second only to Base, it contains the biggest information bank in the sector. From local traffic and the nearest station it receives, stores, relays, answers five hundred requests during every twenty-four So I #  Standard hours -- requests for maps, coordinates, medicines, doctors, plasma, whole blood, ship parts, humanbody paits, police, repair men, prints, data from every branch of ence, art and history -- from a thousand races; humanoid, arthropod, arachnid, avian, ichthyoid -- whatever classification there is. And it answers them all, unless something goes wrong. Five-nincty-nine was invisible in the dimlit sky. If it could have been seen from the supply ship, it would have seemed a huge black ball like an anarchist's bomb, with a complex fuse of antennas for radar, maser and radio. Bugasz closed with it as if it were a bomb. Every once in a while, in a tic, he lifted a hand and bit skin from the sides of his nails. He was a big man with crisp yellow hair and a face red and veinwebbed from the unshielded glare of a thousand suns, no-one's idea of a nervous wreck. "Take it easy, Bugasz," Stannard said. "I can't. I dunno what's wrong there, and I'm scared." "The signal's eccentric; that means the antenna, and it probably knocked out the radio with it. What else can be wrong?" "Crazy signal, dead radio? What else does it have to be?" "They could be out checking the antenna." "She docs that. He wouldn't know how to go near an antenna. He's a computer man." "Maybe she ran out of oxygen and got him to bring her a fresh tank. For God's sake!" "They can do that from the inside... why didn't they use the boat's radio to call #, at least? Not a word!" "Look, Bugasz, will you shut up already? The Hendrickses can take good care of themselves. There's about three hundred yells for help backed up in that computer, and Base is howling blue blazes. That's what Vm worried about. So call it off! Anyway, we'll be there in fifteen minutes." D r. Ramcharan quietly folded and put away the gauzy silk square she had been embroideiing with gold thread and bent over to open her instnunent case and check the contents. Stannard blinked at her. "Now don't tell me you've forgotten something." She smiled and said in a gentle voice, "I never forget. It is like, you say, always with a woman? If I sometimes wonder, oh, did I remember to turn off all the robots when I came from home?" A small beautiful woman, she had leak-colored skin and blueblack hair coiled in a knot at the base of her neck. Though she wore the ciisp white redcrossed surcoat and narrow tiousers of Med Tech, there was always a small glint of gold about her: in the cloth of her inner sleeves, in her filigree earrings, her sandals. The ship moved gently against the spacelit; the magnetic grapples clamped on its flanks with a reassuring klungf and the entrance shaft connected onto the lock with a barely perceptible suction thump. Bugasz handed out suits. Dr. Ramcharan squeezed her sandals into a small IF chamois bag and hung them around her neck. Stannard dragged on his suit and immediately started to sweat. Lit made him sweat; heat made him sweat. He was a middle-sized man with thinning brown hair and glacier chips for eyes. He did not cai'e for the outdoors or convivial company or comfortable travel. On a ship he was happiest when he was looking for the source of the trouble below decks where the wiringboards were racked. Sometimes he whistled to himself a bit in the dark pits of orbital stations and spacelights, back of the glittering multieyed panels where the questions were asked and answered. Especially if there was a good refrigeration system cooling the air around him. On leave at Base he looked for no other society than that of a silent embittered old decontamination-man, an ex-spaceman, with whom he played endless games of go, his only recreation. He picked up a bag much bigger than Dr. Ramcharan's. "Come on, let's get over. I don't want to cook in this thing." T he locks closed behind them and opened before. Their boots vibrated silently against their feet in the dark cavern of the antechamber. They stepped before the inner door. "It's supposed to light up in here when these doors open," Stannard said. "Yeah." They turned questingly in a silence broken by the faint rustle of static at the earphones Bugasz peered at the fluorescent manual-control panel. "That's funny. "What? Air's coming in; gravity's Earth-normal." Bugasz muttered, "I dunno... "Try the switches." ed. He plunged them back ;and forth, without result. "The grapples worked, so did the outside door," Stannard said, "I used the ship's controls for that." He got out his flash and aimed the beam at the contrd panel. "Look. There's a couple scratches and dents around the edge there. I could see black marks on the fluorescent. There." He switched the flash off and on. "Looks hke it was pried off and put back... I bet the wires are ripped behind that thing..." Dr. Ramcharan's breath quickened. Stannard felt hairs rising in a prickling wave up his legs and back and a drench of sweat running down to meet it. He squatted and opened his bag. "Find me the serial number on that panel." "Here -- #X#." "Get the light down here." He pulled out one of a dozen neatly racked miniature controlboards, pressed a stud, and the out-lock door slid open again. "Get back in the shaft. I don't know what's in there, but if it isn't anything good we're getting out of here fast." They backed away. "Ready?" Stannard touched another stud. Thie inner door opened. There was a short hallway and yet one more door of clear Incite panels before them. Light blazed in their faces from the room beyond. There was nothing in it but a man crumpled on the floor and a computer humming softly to itself. N early twelve hours before, they had set out from #, a much bigger spacelight with enough crew to maintain a social structure that included several families. Stannard had (been overseeing the maintenance staff on a tricky repair problem; he was a travelling trouble-shooter and did not live there. News of the irregular signal and the unanswered a long chain of lights and out again to Stannard, along wih microfiles on all aspects of #, including its occupants, a married couple. This last because Stannard doubled in a police capacity -- he reported to hundreds of GalFed agencies on jurisdictional and insurance matters. He loathed the extra work; but space is vast, and lives by comparison are few and short. There was a chronic lack of manpower whether it came from Sol or Betelgeuse. The job involved endless duplicaunder hot lights with a pen gripped awkwardly in his wire-threader's fingers. There was rarely any excitement. Once he had subdued ,a crewman who had gone spacemad and was laying about him with a wrench: but he never spoke of the incident, principally because it made him uneasy that a good, level-headed man could go wild working in the cool, quiet conditions he himself loved so welL He had taken the risk of delaying a couple of hours to send for information about Bugasz, because the supply-man was the only person who visited # regularly and knew it and its occupants well. He had been on #I when the call came, with his ship fuelled and ready about to take off for his next stop. He had been for #. Stannard had spent a couple of hours with the microreader on the way out, so he knew the contents of the three dossiers. And the subject of one of them was lying dead on the floor. 'That is Cornelius Hendricks, isn't it, and he is dead?" Dr. Ramcharan was kneeling beside him. "Very much so, I am afraid." O nce they had checked that gravity was Earth-normal inside and air and temperature were standard, Bugasz had ripped off his helmet and run throu the station yelling, "Iris! Iris!" There was no answer, and he came back with his shoulders sagging, his face both anxious and defeated. "She's not here! Where can she be?" Stannard muttered, "We'll find her. Don't worry..." He was looking at the body of Cornelius Hendricks. Age fifty-three, a quiet solitary, like Stannard, who had married Iris Cullen, a girl in her twenties, two years before. Now he was lying dead, with an empty spray can of deadly vermicide in his hand. IF Startnard decided that he was never going to make either of those mistakes. "How long?" "He is very stiff. Twelve hours, perhaps?" "That's five-six hours after the signal started going..." So Hendricks had been alive when they got the news. And he had delayed. But nothing would have sav Hendricks; he had sprayed the stuff into his mouth, and death must have come in a few minutes. Dr. Ramcharan picked up the can by the nozzle. "Excelthion. This kills all the vermin in the local sector -- but I won't allow it on #I because of the children. You cannot go into a room for six hour after you use it." "I got some on board," Bugasz said. "Get rid of it. There are other effective things you can use with less trouble." Stannard was thinking of those twelve hours. But from #I to # it took just over twelve hours, and there was no shorter way. And he was thinking of Dr. Ramcharan. It was Bugasz who had suggested she come, just as they were leaving; she lived on #, one of a huge team of resident spacelight doctors who rotated every two years. What kind of trouble had be foreseen, that he wanted her here? Dr. Ramcharan was packing her instruments. "Are we to leave him here?" "Did you get pictures?" "Yes." "Wrap him up and we'll take him along." She took a thin transparent plastic sack out of her bag, unfolded it and began pulling it over the body. "Did the stuff do that to his face?" Stannard asked. "Just the purple," Bugasz said. "That's what his face was like." Even discounting the cyanosed skin, the dead man was peculiarly ugly. 